08/01/06

ORDINANCE NO. 950

AN ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MENLO PARK
ADOPTING A UTILITY USERS TAX

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MENLO PARK ORDAINS AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The City of Menlo Park Municipal Code is hereby adopted
by adding Chapter 3.14 to read as follows:

Chapter 3.14 UTILITY USERS TAX

3.14.010 Short title.

3.14.020 Definitions.

3.14.030 Communications users tax.

3.14.040 Electricity users tax.

3.14.050 Gas users tax.

3.14.060 Collection of tax from service users receiving direct purchase of gas
or electricity.

3.14.070 Water users tax.

3.14.080 Effect of commingling taxable items with non-taxable items.

3.14.090 Constitutional and statutory exemptions
3.14.100 Accurate jurisdictional boundaries.

3.14.110 Substantial nexus/minimum contacts.

3.14.120 Maximum tax.

i

08/01/06

3.14.130 Temporary tax percentage reduction and reinstatement tax
percentage without election.

3.14.140 Duty to collect and remit - procedures.

3.14.150 Filing return and payment.

3.14.160 Collection penalties - service suppliers and self-collectors.

3.14.170	Deficiency determination and assessment - tax application errors.
3.14.180 Administrative remedy - nonpaving service users.

3.14.190 Actions to collect.

3.14.200 Additional powers and duties of the tax administrator.

3.14.210 Records.

3.14.220 Refunds.

3.14.230	Appeals.

3.14.240 Independent audit of tax collection, exemption, remittance and
expenditure

3.14.250 No iniunction/writ of mandate.

3.14.260 Remedies Cumulative.

3.14.270 Notice of changes to ordinance.

3.14.280 Severability.

3.14.290 Penalties.

3.14.300 Future amendment to cited statute.

3.14.310 Reguired Findings Every Two Years - Termination of Utility Users

2

Tax.

08/01/06

3.14.010 Short title.

This chapter shall be known as the “Utility Users Tax Ordinance”.

3.14.020 Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
Section govern the construction of this Chapter:

(a)	“Ancillary telecommunication services” means services that are
associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of
telecommunications services, including but not limited to the following
services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that
links two or more participants of an audio or video conference call
and may include the provision of a telephone number. Conference
bridging service does not include the telecommunications services
used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunications billing service means an ancillary
service of separately stating information pertaining to individual
calls on a customer’s billing statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing
telephone number information, and/or address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in
connection with one or more telecommunications services, which
offers advanced calling features that allow customers to identify
callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections, including
conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the
customer to store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail
service does not include any vertical services that the customer
may be required to have in order to utilize the voice mail service.

(b)	“Ancillary video services” means services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision or delivery of video services, including but not
limited to electronic program guide services, search functions, or other
interactive services or communications that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of video programming.

3

08/01/06

(c)	“Billing Address” means the mailing address of the service user
where the service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the
service user.

(d)	“City” means the City of Menlo Park.

(e)	“City Manager” means the City Manager of City, or his or her
authorized representative.

(f)	“Communication Services” means: “telecommunication services”,
“ancillary telecommunication services”, “video services” and “ancillary
video services”.

(g)	“Gas” means natural or manufactured gas or any alternate
hydrocarbon fuel, which may be substituted therefor.

(h)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the same meaning and
usage as set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4
U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations thereunder.

(i)	“Month” means a calendar month.

(j)	“Municipal Organization” shall mean that statewide organization
sanctioned by the League of California Cities, or created by statute or by
voluntary action, whose purpose is to facilitate the development and
dissemination of uniform rulings or interpretations regarding the
application of utility users taxes to communication services in the state of
California.

(k)	“Non-Utility Service Supplier” means:

(1)	a service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution
services to all or a significant portion of the City, which generates
electricity for sale to others, and shall include but is not limited to
any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility,
cogenerator, distributed generation provider, exempt wholesale
generator {15 U.S.C. Section 79z-5a), municipal utility district,
federal power marketing agency, electric rural cooperative, or
other supplier or seller of electricity;

(2)	an electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer,
aggregator, pool operator, or other electricity supplier other than a
supplier of electric distribution services to all or a significant
portion of the City, which sells or supplies electricity or
supplemental services to electricity users within the City; and

4

08/01/06

(3)	a gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other
than a supplier of gas distribution services to all or a significant
portion of the City, which sells or supplies gas or supplemental
services to gas users within the City.

(l)	“Person” means, without limitation, any domestic, non-profit or foreign
corporation; firm; association; syndicate; joint stock company;
partnership of any kind; limited liability company; joint venture; club;
trust; Massachusetts business or common law trust; estate; society;
cooperative; receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court; any natural individual; municipal district
or municipal corporation, other than the City.

(m)	“Place of Primary Use” means the street address representative of
where the customer's use of the telecommunications service primarily
occurs, which must be the residential street address or the primary
business street address of the customer.

(n)	"Post-paid telecommunication service" means the
telecommunication service obtained by making a payment on a
communication-by-communication basis either through the use of a
credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card,
credit card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service number which
is not associated with the origination or termination of the
telecommunication service.

(o)	"Prepaid telecommunication service" means the right to access
telecommunication services, which must be paid for in advance and
which enables the origination of communications using an access
number or authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed,
and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the number
declines with use in a known amount.

(p)	"Private telecommunication service" means a telecommunication
service that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a
communications channel or group of channels between or among
termination points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or
channels are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension
lines, stations, and any other associated services that are provided in
connection with the use of such channel or channels. A.communications
channel is a physical or virtual path of communications over which
signals are transmitted between or among customer channel termination
points (i.e., the location where the customer either inputs or receives the
communications).

5

08/01/06

(q)	"Service Address" means the residential street address or the
business street address of the service user. For a telecommunication
service user, "service address" means either:

(1)	The location of the telecommunication equipment from which
the communication originates or terminates, regardless of where
the communication is billed or paid; or,

(2)	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown
('e.gmobile telecommunications service or VoIP service), the
service address means the location of the service user's place of
primary use.

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address”
means the location associated with the service number.

(r)	"Service Supplier” means any person, including the City, who
provides or sells communication, electric, gas, water or video service to
a user of such services within the City. The term shall include any
person required to collect, or self-collect under Section 3.14.060 of this
Chapter, and remit a tax as imposed by this Chapter, including its billing
agent in the case of electric, gas, water or video service suppliers. In the
case of video service, where the purchaser of bulk video service (e.g.,
an apartment owner) resells the video service to individual users, the
purchaser of the bulk video service shall be deemed the “service
supplier” for tax collection and remittance purposes in Sec. 3.14.030.

(s)	“Service User” means a person required to pay a tax imposed by this

Chapter.

(t)	“State” means the State of California.

(u)	“Tax Administrator” means the Director of Finance of the City of

Menlo Park or his or her designee.

(v)	“Telecommunications services” means the transmission,
conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other
information or signals to a point, or between or among points, whatever
the technology used, and includes broadband service [e.g., digital
subscriber line (DSL), fiber optic, coaxial cable, and wireless broadband,
including Wi-Fi, WiMAX, and Wireless MESH] to the extent federal
and/or state law permits taxation of such broadband services, now or in
the future. The term “telecommunications service” includes such
transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content
for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to

6

08/01/06

whether such service is referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP)
services or is classified by the Federal Communications Commission as
enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data service that is
functionally integrated with “telecommunication services”.
Telecommunications services include, but is not limited to the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are
calculated or billed: ancillary telecommunication services; intrastate,
interstate and international telecommunication services; broadband
service (to the extent federal and/or state law permits taxation of such
service); mobile telecommunications service; prepaid telecommunication
service; post-paid telecommunication service; private telecommunication
service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission); 900 service
(or any other similar numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission for services whereby subscribers who call
in to pre-recorded or live service); and value-added non-voice data
service.

(w)	“Value-added non-voice data service” means a service that
otherwise meets the definition of “telecommunications services" in which
computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code, or protocol of the information or data primarily for a purpose other
than transmission, conveyance or routing.

(x)	“Video Programming” means those programming services commonly
provided to subscribers by a “video service supplier” including but not
limited to basic services, premium services, audio services, video
games, pay-per-view services, video on demand, origination
programming, or any other similar services, regardless of the content of
such video programming, or the technology used to deliver such
services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such services
are calculated or billed.

(y)	“Video Services” means any and all services related to the providing
or delivering of “video programming” (including origination programming
and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video)
using one or more channels by a “video service supplier”, regardless of
the technology used to deliver or provide such services, and regardless
of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed,
and includes data services, “telecommunication services”, or interactive
communication services that are functionally integrated with “video
services”.

(z)	“Video Service Supplier” means any person, company, or service
which provides or sells one or more channels of video programming, or
provides or sells the capability to receive one or more channels of video

08/01/06

programming, including any communications that are ancillary,
necessary or common to the provision, use or enjoyment of the video
programming, to or from a business or residential address in the City,
where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental
charges for that service, whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized
in the delivery of the video programming or communications. A “video
service supplier” includes, but is not limited to, multichannel video
programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 522(13)]\
open video systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television;
master antenna television; satellite master antenna television;
multichannel multipoint distribution services (MMDS); video services
using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video, which provide, among
other things, broadcasting and video on demand), direct broadcast
satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its video services,
now or in the future; and other suppliers of video programming or
communications (including two-way communications), whatever their
technology.

3.14.030 Communications Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
communication services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of
two and one-half percent (2.5%) of the charges made for such services and
shall be collected from the service user by the communication services supplier
or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that communication
services, which are billed to a billing or service address in the City, are used, in
whole or in part, within the City's boundaries, and such services are subject to
taxation under this Chapter. If the billing address of the service user is different
from the service address, the service address of the service user shall be used
for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this Section, the term “charges”
shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or
nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the
communication services.

(b)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” shall be sourced in accordance with
the sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4
U.S.C. Section 124). The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to
communication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this Chapter, sourcing rules for the taxation of other
communication services, including but not limited to post-paid communication
services, prepaid communication services, and private communication services,
provided that such rules are based upon custom and common practice that
further administrative efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation.

(c)	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication
service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this

8

08/01/06

Chapter, an administrative ruling identifying those communication services, or
charges therefor, that are subject to the tax of subsection (a) above. This
administrative ruling shall not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax
methodology as stated in this Section, or increase an existing tax, except as
allowed by California Government Code Section 53750(h)(2)(A).

(d)	To facilitate the uniform interpretation and application of similar ordinance
provisions in other local jurisdictions in the state, the Tax Administrator shall,
prior to issuing and disseminating a sourcing rule or an administrative tax
ruling, submit its proposed sourcing rule or administrative tax ruling to the
Municipal Organization for review and comment, according to the rules and
procedures of that organization, or its successor organization.

(e)	As used in this section, the term “communication services” shall not include
charges for services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones
except that where such coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a
guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed
monthly or other periodic charge shall be included in the base for computing the
amount of tax due.

(f)	Charges for communication services (video) shall include, but are not
limited to, charges for the following:

(1)	franchise fees and access fees (PEG);

(2)	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of
communication services;

(3)	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

(4)	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

(5)	all video programming services (e.g., basic services, premium
services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, or on
demand programming);

(6)	ancillary programming services (e.g., electronic program guide
services, search functions, or other interactive services or
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use or
enjoyment of the video programming);

(7)	equipment leases (e.g., converters, remote devices); and,

(8)	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of
services, and special services.

(g)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of communication services
subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax
Administrator that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another
state or city on such communication services, shall be allowed a credit against
the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such
other state or city; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the
tax owed to the City under this section.

9

08/01/06

(h)	The tax on communication services imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must
be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the
following month.

(i)	Upon a showing of hardship, the Tax Administrator may administratively
delay the implementation of this section until no later than January 1,2008.
Prior to such time, the Tax Administrator may administratively permit the
telecommunications tax to be applied to intrastate, interstate, and international
telecommunication services in the same manner as the federal excise tax was
applied to “communication services” as defined in Sections 4251 and 4252 of
the Internal Revenue Code, and the IRS regulations and rulings pertaining
thereto, prior to May 25, 2006, and regardless of whether charges for such
services are based on time, distance, or on any other basis, and as such
sections are limited by the exceptions of Sections 4252(d) and 4253.

3.14.040 Electricity Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electricity in the
City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three and one-half
percent (3.5%) of the charges made for such electricity, and for any
supplemental services or other associated activities directly related to and/or
necessary for the provision of electricity to'the service user, which are provided
by a service supplier or non-utility service supplier to a service user. The tax
shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility
service supplier, or its billing agent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall
not apply to any individual who qualifies, and has been accepted, for the
California Alternate Rates for Energy (CARE) Program pursuant to California
Public Utilities Code Sections 327 and 739.1 et. seq., and as it may be
amended from time to time. In the event that the CARE Program is repealed or
otherwise ceases to exist in a substantially similar form, the exemption granted
under this subsection shall automatically terminate.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services,
components and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use
or enjoyment of electric service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been
included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local distribution
company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is
not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	energy charges;

(2)	distribution or transmission charges;

(3)	metering charges;

10

08/01/06

(4)	stand-by, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation,
emergency, or other similar charges for supplemental services to self-
generation service users;

(5)	customer charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, demand charges, fuel or other cost
adjustments, power exchange charges, independent system operator
(ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive transition charges
(CTC), public purpose program charges, nuclear decommissioning
charges, trust transfer amounts (bond financing charges), franchise fees,
franchise surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and other charges,
fees or surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt,
use or enjoyment of electric service; and,

(6)	charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs
which are mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges,
fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on the
customer billing.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for the electricity or services related
to the provision of such electricity.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric service
suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of electric retail
service that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial
customers in the City, and the charges therefor, including those items that are
mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing
such electric service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and
disseminate to such electric service suppliers an administrative ruling
identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary for or common
to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service; or, ii) currently are or
historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by
a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such
components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(e)	As used in this section, the term “using electricity” shall not include the
mere receiving of such electricity by an electrical corporation or governmental
agency at a point within the City for resale.

(f)	The tax on electricity provided by self-production or by a non-utility service
supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected and remitted
in the manner set forth in Section 3.14.060 of this Chapter. All other taxes on
charges for electricity imposed by this section shall be collected from the
service user by the electric service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of
tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and

n

08/01/06

must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day
of the following month; or, at the option of the person required to collect and/or
remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by
the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service
user, which must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the
twentieth (20th) day of the following month, provided that such person shall
submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty
(60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax
Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent remittance that
becomes due.

3.14.050 Gas Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the City,
which is transported and delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The
tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three and one-half percent
(3.5%) of the charges made for such gas, including all services related to the
storage, transportation and delivery of such gas. The tax shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its
billing agent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall not apply to any
individual who qualifies, and has been accepted, for the California Alternate
Rates for Energy (CARE) Program pursuant to California Public Utilities Code
Sections 327 and 739.1 et. seq., and as it may be amended from time to time.

In the event that the CARE Program is repealed or otherwise ceases to exist in
a substantially similar form, the exemption granted under this subsection shall
automatically terminate.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services,
components and items for gas service that are: i) necessary for or common to
the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or, ii) currently are or historically
have been included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall
include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	the commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned
by the service user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling,
production, lifting, storage, gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other
operating costs associated with the production and delivery of such gas),
which is delivered through a gas pipeline distribution system;

(2)	gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent
not included in commodity charges);

(3)	storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier shall
not be required to apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services
when the service supplier cannot, as a practical matter, determine the
jurisdiction where such stored gas is ultimately used; but it shall be the
obligation of the service user to self-collect the amount of tax not applied

12

08/01/06

to any charge for gas storage by the service supplier and to remit the tax
to the appropriate jurisdiction;

(4)	capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, transition charges, customer charges,
minimum charges, annual and monthly charges, and any other charges
which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of
gas service; and,

(5)	charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs which are
mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or
surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer
billing.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for the gas or services related to the
delivery of such gas.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas service
suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of gas retail
service that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial
customers in the City, and the charges therefor, including those items that are
mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing
such gas service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and
disseminate to such gas service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying
those components and items which are: i) necessary for or common to the
receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or, ii) currently are or historically have
been included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution
company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components and
items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(e)	There shall be excluded from the calculation of the tax imposed in this
section, charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a
pipeline distribution system.

(f)	The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier
not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected and remitted in the
manner set forth in Section 3.14.060 of this Chapter. All other taxes on
charges for gas imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user
by the gas service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in
one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received
by the Tax Administrator, on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month; or, at the option of the person required to collect and/or remit the tax,
such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed
in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user, which
must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day

08/01/06

of the following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted
payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following
each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may
be applied against any subsequent remittance that becomes due.

3.14.060 Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase
of Gas or Electricity.

(a)	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by Section 3.14.040 or by
Section 3.14.050 of this Chapter, which produces gas or electricity for self-use;
which receives gas or electricity, including any related supplemental services,
directly from a non-utility service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this
Chapter; or which, for any other reason, is not having the full tax collected and
remitted by its service supplier, a non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent
on the use of gas or electricity in the City, including any related supplemental
services, shall report said fact to the Tax Administrator and shall remit the tax
due directly to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use. In lieu
of paying said actual tax, the service user may, at its option, remit to the Tax
Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use an estimated amount of tax
measured by the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the payment pattern
of similar customers of the service supplier using similar amounts of gas or
electricity, provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or
request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar
quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied
against any subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may require said service user to identify its non-utility
service supplier and provide, subject to audit: invoices; books of account; or
other satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used,
including any related supplemental services, and the cost or price thereof. If
the service user is unable to provide such satisfactory evidence, or if the
administrative cost of calculating the tax in the opinion of the Tax Administrator
is excessive, the Tax Administrator may determine the tax by applying the tax
rate to the equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if the gas or
electricity used, including any related supplemental services, had been
provided by the service supplier that is the primary supplier of gas or electricity
within the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from the
City.

(c)	Nothwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) above, electricity produced for
self-use by solar electricity generation or co-generation (as defined in Public
Utilities Code Section 218.5) shall be temporarily exempted from the tax
imposed under this Chapter. This temporary exemption shall automatically
expire six (6) years from the effective date of this Ordinance without further
action by the City Council or voter approval. The City Council shall review the
exemption prior to its expiration and shall make a determination as to whether

14

08/01/06

the exemption shall expire or shall be extended. The City Council may grant
subsequent temporary exemptions by ordinance amendment.

3.14.070 Water Users Tax.

(a)	There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using water which is
transported and delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three and one-half percent (3.5%)
of the charges made for such water and shall be collected from the service user
by the water service supplier, or its billing agent.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges" shall apply to all services,
components and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use
or enjoyment of water service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been
included in a single or bundled rate for water service by a local distribution
company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is
not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	water commodity charges (potable and non-potable);

(2)	distribution or transmission charges;

(3)	metering charges;

(4)	customer charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual
and monthly charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges which are
necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water
service; and,

(5)	charges, fees, or surcharges for water services or programs, which
are mandated by a water district or a state or federal agency, whether or
not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item
basis on the customer billing.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for the water services.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the water service
suppliers in the City to identify the various unbundled billing components of
water retail service that they commonly provide to residential and
commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the charges therefor, including
those items that are mandated by a water district or a state or federal agency
as a condition of providing such water service. The Tax Administrator,
thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such water service suppliers an
administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are: i)
necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water service; or,
ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for
water service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers.

15

08/01/06

Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the tax of
subsection (a) above.

(e)	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this
section is computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered
through a pipeline distribution system.

(f)	The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the
twentieth (20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of the person
required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated
amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the
payment pattern of the service user, which must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month,
provided that such person shall submit an adjusted payment or request for
credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter.
The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any
subsequent remittance that becomes due.

3.14.080 Effect of Commingling Taxable Items with Non-Taxable Items.r

sp:

Except as otherwise provided by applicable federal or state law, if any -
nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable
service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the
combined charge is subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies, by
reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of the combined charge that
are nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier's books and records
kept in the regular course of business, and in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. The service supplier has the burden of proving
the proper apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges.

3.14.090 Constitutional and Statutory Exemptions

(a)	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon:

(1)	any person or service when imposition of such tax upon that person
or service would be in violation of a federal or state statute, the
Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of
California; and,

(2)	the City.

(b)	Any person that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Chapter pursuant to
subsection (a) shall file an application with the Tax Administrator for an
exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service
user that is a state or federal agency or subdivision with a commonly

16

08/01/06

recognized name. Said application shall be made upon a form approved by the
Tax Administrator and shall state those facts, declared under penalty of perjury,
which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall include the names of all
utility service suppliers serving that service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax
Administrator, such service user shall give the Tax Administrator timely written
notice of any change in utility service suppliers so that the Tax Administrator
can properly notify the new utility service supplier of the service user’s tax
exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this Section shall not be
entitled to a refund of utility users’ taxes collected and remitted to the Tax
Administrator from such service user as a result of such non-compliance. Upon
request of the Tax Administrator, a service supplier or non-utility service
supplier, or its billing agent, shall provide a list of the names and addresses of
those customers which, according to its billing records, are deemed exempt
from the utility users’ tax.

(c)	The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section

3.14.230	of this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and
appeal to the City Administrator pursuant to Section 3.14.230 of this Chapter is
a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

3.14.100 Accurate jurisdictional boundaries.

The City shall make available, upon request, an accurate description of its
jurisdictional boundaries based on street addresses and/or ZIP Plus Four, in an
electronic format. If a service supplier relies upon such information provided by
City, it shall not be responsible for any errors in taxation that may result.

3.14.110 Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax
under this Chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the
utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as it
may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by statutory
enactment. Any communication service (including VoIP) used by a person with
a service address in the City, which service is capable of terminating a call to
another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to a
rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exists for
purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax,
under this Chapter.

3.14.120 Maximum Tax.

(a)	The maximum cumulative tax payable by any service user pursuant to
Sections 3.14.040, 3.14.050, 3.14.060, and 3.14.070, shall be $12,000 per
fiscal year. A service user with more than one meter or billing invoice per utility

17

08/01/06

service at a single contiguous location may combine all billings for purposes of
calculating the maximum tax amount.

(b)	A person may apply to the Tax Administrator to be qualified for the
maximum tax by providing billing invoices, and other information as required by
the Tax Administrator, for the prior fiscal year. Upon receipt of satisfactory
proof of paying the maximum tax for the prior fiscal year, the Tax Administrator
shall qualify the applicant for the maximum tax. The qualified person shall
thereafter be entitled to a refund of any tax in excess of $12,000 that was paid
by the qualified person during the prior fiscal year, provided that proof of such
tax payments is received by the Tax Administrator within one year following the
end of the fiscal year for which the refund is sought.

(c)	At the request of the qualified person, and upon receipt of satisfactory
information. Tax Administrator shall advise the service suppliers, in writing, of
the qualified person to discontinue imposing a utility user tax on the billings of
the qualified person, provided however, that the qualified person agrees to
prepay the Tax Administrator $12,000 at the commencement of the fiscal year.
The service supplier shall comply with the written notice from the Tax
Administrator by no later than ninety (90) days from receipt of the written notice.

(d)	The qualified person shall have the duty to notify the Tax Administrator of
any changes in service suppliers, or if the combined tax payments hereunder
drops below the $12,000 maximum tax per fiscal year. If a qualified person
fails to notify the Tax Administrator that the combined tax payments drops
below the $12,000 maximum tax within ninety (90) days following such fiscal
year, then the penalties and interest provisions of Section 3.14.160 shall apply.

3.14.130 Temporary Tax Percentage Reduction and Reinstatement of Tax
Percentage without Election.

The City Council may, by resolution and upon a majority vote of the Council,
temporarily reduce the tax percentage in Sections 3.14.040 through 32.070 for
a period of no more than twelve (12) months. The Tax Administrator shall
implement the temporary tax reduction by giving sixty (60) day written notice to
all affected service suppliers as required by Public Utilities Code Section 799.

At the end of the twelve month period, the original tax percentage shall be
automatically reinstated without further notice or action by the City Council.

In a resolution granting a temporary tax rebate or tax reduction, the City Council
shall make the following finding: The temporary tax reduction shall not
adversely affect the City's ability to meet its financial obligations as
contemplated in its current or its proposed budget.

Nothing herein shall prohibit the City Council from adopting consecutive
temporary tax percentage reductions, as provided herein.

18

08/01/06

As stated in Government Code Section 9611, the enactment of a temporary tax
percentage reduction by the City Council shall not constitute a repeal of one or
more of the original provisions of this Chapter. Upon the expiration of the time
of the temporary tax percentage reduction, the original provisions of this
Chapter shall have the same force and effect as if the temporary tax
percentage reduction had not been enacted. Nothing herein is intended to
constitute a decrease in a tax, or an increase in a tax requiring election
approval under California Constitution Article XiUC\ and to the extent that any
aspect of a temporary tax percentage reduction is found to invoke such a
requirement, the entire temporary tax percentage reduction shall be deemed
null and void ab initio, and there shall be no entitlement to such tax reduction
for any service user.

3.14.140 Duty to Collect and Remit - Procedures.

The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit the taxes imposed by the
provisions of this Chapter shall be performed as follows:

(a)	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as,
and along with, the charges made in accordance with the regular billing
practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by a service
user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge and
tax which was accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of
both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid. In those
cases where a service user has notified the service supplier of refusal to
pay the tax imposed on said charges, Section 3.14.180 shall apply.

(b)	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user
shall commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period
applicable to the service user where all charges normally included in
such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where a
person receives more than one billing, one or more being for different
periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each
billing period.

3.14.150 Filing return and payment.

Each person required by this Chapter to remit a tax shall file a return with the
Tax Administrator or his or her designated agent, on forms approved by the Tax
Administrator on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax owed shall
be included with the return and filed with the Tax Administrator or his or her
designated agent, The Tax Administrator is authorized to require such
additional information as he or she deems necessary to determine if the tax is
being levied, collected and remitted in accordance with this Chapter. Returns
are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to

19

08/01/06

California Revenue and Tax Code Section 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and
its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as confidential information.

3.14.160 Collection Penalties - service suppliers or self-collectors.

(a)	Taxes collected from a service user, or self-collected by a service user
subject to Section 3.14.060 of this Chapter, are delinquent if not received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a
weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator
on or before the first regular working day following the weekend or legal
holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other similar
methods of electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts, made
by a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection shall
be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and
the transfer settles into the City’s account on or before the following business
day.

(b)	If a service supplier, or a service user subject to Section 3.14.060 of this
Chapter, fails to remit any tax collected, on or before the due date, said person
shall pay a penalty for such delinquencies at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of
the total tax that is delinquent in the remittance, and shall pay interest at the
rate of three-quarters of one percent (%%) per month, or any fraction thereof,
on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties
upon persons required to collect and/or remit taxes pursuant to the provisions
of this Chapter for fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate
of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be
remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax Administrator.

(d)	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that
is accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax
herein required to be paid.

(e)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, modify the due dates and/or penalty and interest provisions of this
Chapter to be consistent with any uniform standards or procedures that are
mutually agreed upon by UUT public agencies, or otherwise legally established,
to create a UUT central payment location or mechanism.

3.14.170	Deficiency Determination and Assessment - tax application
errors.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she
determines that any person required to collect or self-collect taxes pursuant to

20

08/01/06

the provisions of this Chapter has failed to collect and remit the proper amount
of tax by improperly or failing to apply the tax to one or more taxable services or
charges.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination
to the person required to pay or remit the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to
the amount of the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of three-quarters of one
percent (%%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from
the date on which the tax should have been received by the City. Within
fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of service of such notice, the person
may request in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the matter. If
the person fails to request a hearing within the prescribed time period, the
amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final assessment, and
shall immediately be due and owing to the City.

(c)	If the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the
matter to be set for hearing, which shall be held within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator to such person at least ten
(10) calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires
said person to produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may
designate the records requested to be produced.

(d)	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all
relevant testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested parties.
At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be continued from
time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of additional evidence.
Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the hearing, the Tax
Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessment), thereafter,
by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and
shall mail a copy of such final assessment to person owing the tax. The
decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section

3.14.230	of this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and
appeal to the City Manager pursuant to Section 3.14.230 of this Chapter is a
prerequisite to a suit thereon.

(e)	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by
the Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of
receipt of the notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be
fifteen percent (15%) on the total amount of the assessment, along with interest
at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (%%) per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date of
delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim
by the City seeking payment of a tax assessed under this Section 3.14.170
shall commence from the date of delinquency as provided in this subsection

(e).

08/01/06

(f)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid,
and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of
mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

3.14.180 Administrative remedy - nonpaying service users.

(a)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the
amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax
Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she may relieve
such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this Chapter from
certain named service users for specific billing periods. Whenever the service
user has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more
billing periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect
taxes due. The service supplier shall provide the City with the names and
addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the
provisions of this Chapter.

(b)	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty
at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay
interest at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (%%) per month, or any
fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the due
date, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the
stated periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and
interest. The notice shall be served on the service user by personal delivery or
by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed
to the service user at the address to which billing was made by the person
required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have a change of
address, to his or her last known address.

(d)	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty
(30) days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax
Administrator may impose an additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the
amount of the total tax that is owed.

3.14.190 Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any
such tax collected from a service user which has not been remitted to the Tax
Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required
to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service user. Any

22

08/01/06

person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such
amount, including penalties and interest as provided for in this Chapter, along
with any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the person’s
noncompliance with this Chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorneys’ fees. In the event that a service user or service supplier owing a tax
under this chapter files bankruptcy, then such debt to the City shall be deemed
an unsecured priority excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section
507(a)(8)(C).

Sec. 3.14.200 Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby
directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this Chapter.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations not
inconsistent with provisions of this Chapter for the purpose of interpreting,
clarifying, carrying out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of
the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such administrative rules and regulations
shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office.

(c)	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict
requirements of this Chapter and thereby: (1) conform to the billing procedures
of a particular service supplier (or service user subject to Section 3.14.060 of
this Chapter) so long as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in
conformance with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter; or, (2) to
avoid a hardship where the administrative costs of collection and remittance
greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on
file in the Tax Administrator's office, and are voidable by the Tax Administrator
or the City at any time.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance
with the requirements of this Chapter, of any person required to collect and/or
remit a tax pursuant to this Chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said
person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other
intentional misconduct, the audit period of review shall not exceed a period of
three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by said
person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax
Administrator may make a deficiency determination pursuant to Section

3.14.170	of this Chapter for all taxes, penalties and interest owed and not paid,
as evidenced by information provided by such person to the Tax Administrator.

If said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the
Tax Administrator to verify compliance with this Chapter, the Tax Administrator
is authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency and issue a
deficiency determination assessment. Said deficiency determination
assessment shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

23

08/01/06

(e)	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the
Tax Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required
pursuant to this Chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days,
provided that the time for filing the required statement has not already passed
when the request is received. No penalty for delinquent payment shall accrue
by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at the
rate of three-quarters of one percent (%%) per month, prorated for any portion
thereof.

(f)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who
asserts a right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this
Chapter.

(g)	The Tax Administrator, with the written approval of the City Attorney, may
compromise a claim pursuant to this Chapter where the portion of the claim
proposed to be released is less than the amount set by separate resolution of
the City Council relating to the settlement of general liability claims against the
City, and, with the approval of the City Attorney and the City Council, may
compromise such a claim where the portion proposed to be released is equal to
or greater than the amount set by separate resolution of the City Council
relating to the settlement of general liability claims against the City.

(h)	Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapter to the contrary, the Tax
Administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person
required to collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by this
Chapter if the non-collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether the
non-collection was in good faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into
consideration industry practice or other precedence.

3.14.210 Records.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the
City any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at
least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount
of such tax that such person may have been liable for the collection of and
remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall
have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

(b)	The City, through its City Council, may issue an administrative subpoena to
compel a person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all records
deemed necessary by the Tax Administrator to establish compliance with this
Chapter, including the delivery of records in a common electronic format on
readily available media if such records are kept electronically by the person in
the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the

24

08/01/06

subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the due date
provided in the administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to
such records outside the City on or before the due date, provided that such
person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by
the City to inspect those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other
similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those
persons designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

(c)	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement
approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer
information pursuant to California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and
7284.7. The Tax Administrator may request from a person providing
transportation or distribution services of gas or electricity to service users within
the City, a list of the names, billing and service addresses, quantities of gas or
electricity delivered, and other pertinent information, of its transportation
customers within the City pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Section
6354(e).

(d)	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: (1) provide to the Tax
Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent
and billing aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax to the City; and, (2) upon request of the Tax Administrator,
deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the possession of
such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

(e)	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably
denies the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's designated
representative, access to such records, or fails to produce the information
requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified, the Tax
Administrator may impose a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500) on such
person for each day following: i) the initial date that the person refuses to
provide such access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as set forth in
the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
penalty imposed under this Chapter.

3.14.220 Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid, paid more than once,
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this Chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this
section.

25

08/01/06

(b)	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid, paid
more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by
the Tax Administrator under this Chapter, provided that no refund shall be paid
under the provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian,
conservator, executor or administrator has submitted a written claim, under
penalty of perjury, to the Tax Administrator within one year of the overpayment
or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish
claimant's right to the refund by written records showing entitlement thereto.
Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a refund claim on behalf of a class or
group of taxpayers. Where the amount of any individual refund claim is in
excess of the amount set by separate resolution of the City Council relating to
the settlement of general liability claims against the City, City Council approval
shall be required.

(c)	The Tax Administrator, or the City Council where the claim is in excess of
the amount set by separate resolution of the City Council relating to the
settlement of general liability claims against the City, shall act upon the refund
claim within forty-five (45) days of the initial receipt of the refund claim. Said
decision shall be final. If the Tax Administrator/City Council fails or refuses to
act on a refund claim within the forty-five (45) day period, the claim shall be
deemed to have been rejected by the Tax Administrator/City Council on the
forty-fifth (45th) day. The Tax Administrator shall give notice of the action in a
form which substantially complies with that set forth in Government Code
Section 913.

(d)	The filing of a written claim is a prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action
brought against the City pursuant to this section shall be subject to the
provisions of Government Code Sections 945.6 and 946.

(e)	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (a) of this section, in the
event that a service supplier, or a service user subject to Section 3.14.060
hereof, remits a tax to City in excess of the amount of tax imposed by this
Chapter, said service supplier, or service user subject to Section 3.14.060
hereof, may claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which
is due upon any other monthly returns to the Tax Administrator, provided such
credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from the date of
overpayment of said tax. The Tax Administrator shall first determine the validity
of the service user’s claim of credit, and the underlying basis for such claim.

(f)	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (a) of this section, a
service supplier that has collected any amount of tax in excess of the amount of
tax imposed by this Chapter and actually due from a service user (whether due
to overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax), may refund such
amount to the service user, or credit to charges subsequently payable by the
service user to the service supplier, and claim credit for such overpayment
against the amount of tax which is due upon any other monthly returns to the

08/01/06

Tax Administrator, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated no later
than one year from the date of overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of
said tax. The Tax Administrator shall first determine the validity of the service
user’s claim of credit, and the underlying basis for such claim.

3.14.230	Appeals.

(a)	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision
relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.14.220 of this Chapter), deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator.
Any person aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a
refund pursuant to Section 3.14.220 of this Chapter), deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, shall be required
to comply with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with this
section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government Code
Section 935(b).] Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action on
behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

(b)	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to
a refund pursuant to Section 3.14.220 of this Chapter), deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he
or she may appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the City
Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the decision, deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator
which aggrieved the service user or service supplier.

(c)	The matter shall be set for hearing no more than thirty (30) days from the
receipt of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time and
place of the hearing, as well as any relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar
days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to time
upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the Tax
Administrator, the City Manager, and any other interested person may present
such relevant evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination
from which the appeal is taken.

(d)	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s
files, the City Manager shall issue a written notice and order upholding,
modifying or reversing the determination from which the appeal is taken. The
notice shall be given within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the
hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The notice shall specify
that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code of
Civil Procedure Section 1094.6. If the City Manager fails or refuses to act on a
refund claim within the fourteen (14) day period, the claim shall be deemed to
have been rejected by the City Manager on the fourteenth (14th) day.

08/01/06

(e)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid,
and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of
mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

3.14.240 Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption, Remittance,
and Expenditure.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Chapter have been
properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this
Chapter, and properly expended according to applicable municipal law. The
annual verification shall be performed by a qualified independent third party and
the review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance,
including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be required of
tax remitters where the cost of the verification may exceed the tax revenues to
be reviewed.

3.14.250 No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue
in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any
officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter of any
tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and/or remitted.

3.14.260 Remedies Cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Chapter or which are available
under any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the
California False Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 etseq.) and the
California Unfair Practices Act (Business and Professions Code Section 17070
et seq.), are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by the City shall not
bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this Chapter.

3.14.270 Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

If a tax under this Chapter is added, repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax
base is changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of
California Public Utilities Code Section 799. Prior to the effective date of the
ordinance change, the service supplier shall provide the Tax Administrator with
a copy of any written procedures describing the information that the service
supplier needs to implement the ordinance change. If the service supplier fails
to provide such written instructions, the Tax Administrator, or his or her agent,
shall send, by first class mail, a copy of the ordinance change to all collectors
and remitters of the City’s utility users taxes according to the latest payment
records of the Tax Administrator.

08/01/06

3.14.280 Severability.

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be invalid, unlawful
or unconstitutional, such decision, and the decision not to enforce such, shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this Chapter or any part
thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each
section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid,
unlawful or unconstitutional.

3.14.290 Penalties.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, or an infraction at the discretion
of the City Attorney, and upon conviction punished pursuant to
Chapter 1.12 of this Code.

3.14.300 Future Amendment to Cited Statute.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal
statute in this Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time
to time.

3.14.310 Required Findings Every Two Years -- Termination of Utility
Users Tax.

(a)	The City Council shall review the need for the utility users tax imposed by
this Chapter not later than June 30, 2008, and every two years thereafter, and
shall, by a two thirds (2/3) vote of the Council, make findings that the utility
users tax imposed by this Chapter is necessary for the financial health of the
City. In the event the City Council fails to make such required findings by any
such review date, the levy of taxes as provided in this Chapter shall terminate
on December 31st of the year in which the City Council fails to make the
required findings.

(b)	The termination of the levy of taxes as provided herein shall not terminate
the obligation to pay taxes levied on services used prior to such date. Taxes
levied prior to such date shall remain a debt payable to the City. All provisions
in this Chapter, except those relating to the levy of taxes, shall continue with full
force and effect after such date.

(c)	Nothing herein is intended to constitute an extension or an increase in a tax
requiring voter approval under California Constitution Article X///C; and to the

08/01/06

extent that this Section 3.14.310 is found to invoke such a requirement, this
Section 3.14.310 shall be deemed null and void ab initio.

SECTION 2. If any part of this Ordinance is held to be invalid or
inapplicable to any situation by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance or the
applicability of this Ordinance to other situations.

SECTION 3. If a majority of the voters voting thereon approve this
Chapter 3.14, it shall become effective ten (10) days after the results of the
election are declared by the City Council. Within fifteen (15) days of its adoption
this ordinance shall be posted in three public places within the City of Menlo
Park, and the ordinance, or a summary of the ordinance prepared by the City
Attorney, shall be published in a local newspaper used to publish official notices
for the City of Menlo Park prior to the effective date.

INTRODUCED on the 25th day of July, 2006.

PASSED AND ADOPTED as an ordinance of the City of Menlo Park at a
regular meeting of said Council on the 1st day of August 2006, by the following

vote:

AYES:	Council Members: Jellins, Fergusson, Cohen, Duboc and Winkler
NOES:	Council Members: None
ABSENT:	Council Members: None
ABSTAIN:	Council Members: None

30