<full> FULLTEXT OF MEASURE A

ORDINANCE NO._____1110

TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY LAW ENFORCEMENT SUPPORT TAX

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF INYO, STATE OF
CALIFORNIA ADDING SECTION 3.20.200 TO THE INYO
COUNTY CODE, TO IMPOSE AN ADDITIONAL TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX AT THE RATE OF THREE PERCENT (3%)
FOR THE PURPOSE OF FUNDING LAW ENFORCEMENT
SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE COUNTY OF INYO

SECTION I.	TITLE AND APPLICATION.

This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the “Transient
Occupancy Law Enforcement Support Tax” of Inyo County. The tax
imposed by this ordinance is applicable in all unincorporated areas
of the County of Inyo.

SECTION II.	AUTHORITY.

Chapter 1, Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code (Section 7280 et seq.) authorizes the board of
supervisors of a county to levy a tax on the privilege of occupying
a room, rooms, or other living space in a hotel, tourist home or
house, motel, or other lodging, within the unincorporated areas of
the county. Such taxation is commonly referred to as “transient
occupancy tax” or “T.O.T.”. Pursuant to this authority, and Government
Code Sections 25005, 23327, 50075.1, 50077, 53722, 53724, and
Article XIIIA (4) and Article XIIIC (2) of the California Constitution,
the board of supervisors of a county is authorized to levy a transient
occupancy tax as a special tax to fund specific activities and services
provided by the county.

SECTION III.	PURPOSE.

The County’s existing transient occupancy tax is imposed as a
general tax at the rate of nine percent (9%) of the rent charged by
the lodging operator. This tax is imposed, levied, and collected as
set forth in Chapter 3.20 of the Inyo County Code. The purpose of
this ordinance is to impose, with voter approval, an additional transient
occupancy tax as a special tax at the rate of three percent (3%) of
the rent charged by the lodging operator for the purpose of funding
law enforcement services provided by the County of Inyo. This
ordinance shall be interpreted liberally to accomplish this purpose.

SECTION IV.	LAW ENFORCEMENT SUPPORT TAX.

Section 3.20.200 is hereby added to Chapter 3.20 TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX of the Inyo County Code, to read as follows:

“3.20.200 LAW ENFORCEMENT SUPPORT TAX.

This section of Chapter 3.20 shall be known as the “Transient
Occupancy Law Enforcement Support Tax” of the County.

A.	Law Enforcement Support Tax Imposed.

Effective July 1,2006, there is imposed a Transient Occupancy
Law Enforcement Support Tax. For the privilege of occupancy
in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a Transient
Occupancy Law Enforcement Support Tax in the amount of three
percent (3%) of the rent charged by the operator. This tax shall
be imposed, levied, and collected in the same manner, at the
same time, and subject to the same penalties as the Transient
Occupancy Tax imposed, levied, and collected under Section 3.20.030	above. The Transient Occupancy Law Enforcement
Support Tax is levied in addition to the Transient Occupancy Tax
levied under Section 3.20.030.

B.	Law Enforcement Support Tax Purposes.

The purpose of the Transient Occupancy Law Enforcement
Support Tax is to fund law enforcement services provided by
the County of Inyo. Such law enforcement services include the
Inyo County Sheriff’s Department (including the jail and animal
control), the Inyo County District Attorney’s Office (including the
victim witness assistance program), and the Inyo County Probation
Department (including the juvenile detention facility). The Inyo
County Board of Supervisors may only use Transient Occupancy
Law Enforcement Support Tax funds to augment or supplant
funding for these identified law enforcement activities.

C.	Law Enforcement Support Tax Account.

Effective July 1, 2006, there is created the Transient

Occupancy Law Enforcement Support Tax Account. All Transient
Occupancy Law Enforcement Support Tax collected shall be
placed in this account as they are received by the County. The
appropriation and expenditure of funds from this account shall
be limited to the purposes identified in paragraph B above, and
may not be used or expended for any other purpose.

D.	Annual Report Required.

In accordance with the requirements of Government Code
Section 50075.1, the County Auditor beginning on January 1,
2008, and annually thereafter, shall file a report with the County
Board of Supervisors concerning the Transient Occupancy Law
Enforcement Support Tax for the prior fiscal year. The annual
report shall contain the following:

1.	The amount of unencumbered Law Enforcement Support Tax
funds in the Transient Occupancy Law Enforcement Support
Tax Account at the beginning of the fiscal year, and at the
end of the fiscal year;

2.	The amount of Transient Occupancy Law Enforcement Support
Tax received by the County in the fiscal year; and

3.	The amounts and purposes for which Transient Occupancy Law
Enforcement Support Tax funds were expended in the fiscal year.

SECTION V. VOTER APPROVAL REQUIRED.

As required by law, the Board of Supervisors shall call for a
special election to be conducted within the boundaries of the county
on June 6, 2006, for the purpose of submitting the tax imposed by
this ordinance to all of the electors within the County. Such election
shall be consolidated with the statewide primary election held on
that date, and will be conducted in conformity with the applicable
election laws and constitutional voting requirements. The Transient
Occupancy Law Enforcement Support Tax shall be imposed only it
is approved by two-thirds (2/3s) of votes cast by voters voting on
this tax in such election.

SECTION VI. SEVERABILITY,

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by
a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed
this ordinance, and each and every section, subsection, sentence,
clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without
regard to whether any portion of this ordinance would be subsequently
declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION VII.	EFFECTIVE DATE.

This ordinance provides for the imposition, levy, and collection of
an additional transient occupancy tax for the specific purposes of
funding law enforcement services provided by the County of Inyo. As
such, it requires approval by two thirds (2/3s) of the voters voting
upon such tax at the statewide primary election held on June 6, 2006.
If so approved, this ordinance shall be effective on July 1, 2006.

SECTION VIII.	PUBLICATION.

Before the expiration of fifteen (15) days from the adoption hereof,
this ordinance shall be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation printed and published in the County of Inyo, State of
California. The Clerk of the Board is hereby instructed and ordered
to so publish this ordinance together with the names of the Board
voting for and against the same.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 7th day of March, 2006 by the
following vote:

AYES:	Supervisors Arcularius, Cash, Williams, Bilyeu and Cervantes

NOES:	-0-

ABSTAIN: -0-
ABSENT: -0-

s/ Susan Cash
Chair, Inyo County Board of Supervisors

ATTEST: Ron Juliff
Clerk of the Board

By: Patricia Gunsolley, Assistant Clerk of the Board <fullend>









<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

Slate law authorizes a county to impose a tax on the privilege
of occupying, for a period of 30 days or less, a room, rooms, or
other living space in a hotel, tourist home or house, motel, or other
lodging. This tax is commonly referred to as '‘transient occupancy
tax" or “T.O.T." and is the “bed tax" paid by people who stay at hotels,
motels, and other lodging facilities. A county’s T.O.T. is only applicable
in the unincorporated areas of the county. In Inyo County, a county

T.O.T. does not apply within the boundaries of the City of Bishop.

Inyo County’s existing T.O.T. is a general tax imposed at the rate
of 9% of the rent charged by operators of hotels, tourist houses,
and motels in the incorporated area of the county. As a general
tax. the revenue from this tax may be used by the County Board of
Supervisors to fund any county service or activity. The County’s
existing T.O.T. does not apply to camping sites or spaces at a
campground or RV park.

Measure “A", if passed, would approve the "Transient Occupancy
Law Enforcement Support Tax" ordinance. This ordinance would impose
an additional transient occupancy tax as a special tax at the rate of
3% of the rent charged by lodging operators. Like the County’s existing
T.O.T, this special tax would be paid by people who stay at hotels,
motel, and other lodging facilities in the unincorporated areas of the
County. This additional bed tax would increase the County's total
T.O.T. rate from 9% to 12%, and would be imposed, levied and collected
starting July 1, 2006, in the same manner, at the same time, and
subject to the same penalties as the County's existing T.O.T. Neither
the County's existing T.O.T., nor the Transient Occupancy Law
Enforcement Support Tax, will apply to camping sites or spaces at
campgrounds or RV parks if Measure “A” is passed.

As a special tax, the revenue received from the Transient
Occupancy Law Enforcement Support Tax may only be used by the
County Board of Supervisors to fund the law enforcement services
provided by the Inyo County Sheriff's Department (including the jail
and animal control), the Inyo County District Attorney's Office
(including the victim witness assistance program), and the Inyo
County Probation Department (including the juvenile detention
facility). The County Board of Supervisors may only use this revenue
to provide additional funding (augment) or to replace existing funding
(supplant) for these identified law enforcement activities. For
purposes of accountability, the revenue from this special tax will be
placed into a special account and reported upon annually by the
County Auditor.

This measure will pass only if it is approved by two thirds (2/3s)
of the voters voting upon this measure in this election.

A “YES" vote is a vote to approve the Transient Occupancy Law
Enforcement Support Tax.

A “NO" vote is a vote disapproving this tax. <impartialend>








<impartialsigs> s/ Paul N. Bruce
Inyo County Counsel <impartialsigsend>










<fiscal> FISCAL ANALYSIS MEASURE A

Based on a five (5) year average of Transient Occupancy Tax
collections throughout Inyo County. Measure A would increase
projected County revenues by approximately 5480,000 per year
beginning in the fiscal year 2006/2007. This measure would not
increase County expenditures by any significant amount, nor would
it cause the County to exceed its Proposition 4 (Gann) limit. <fiscalend>








<fiscalsigs> s/ Leslie L. Chapman <fiscalsigsend>










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

INYO COUNTY SHERIFF DAN LUCAS. DISTRICT ATTORNEY
ART MAILLET, AND CHIEF PROBATION OFFICER JIM MOFFETT
are requesting your support for an increase in the transient occupancy
tax. The County of Inyo has a strong record of support for Law
Enforcement. However, economic strain is tightening our resources.
The money generated by this bed tax increase will be specifically
dedicated to the Sheriff, District Attorney and Probation.

Each day thousands of visitors impact your County agencies and
services. On occasion, travelers and visitors violate the law, There
have been large drug busts along our highways. Assaults and thefts
have occurred In our campgrounds. Vehicles stolen elsewhere are
stopped within our County. When arrested those people land in our
Jail. They are processed through our Courts, prosecuted by our
District Attorney. Your Probation Department prepares sentencing
reports and supervises these Individuals. Approximately 50% OF
OUR CRIMINAL CLIENTS ARE PEOPLE WHO RESIDE OUTSIDE
OUR COUNTY.

During holiday and vacation periods, thousands of visitors use
our roads and parks. They use our water and increase the burden
on our sewer systems. Visitors generate more than half of the solid
waste dumped at our landfill.

IS IT FAIR THAT THE CITIZENS OF OUR SMALL COUNTY
CONTINUE TO PICK UP THE TAB FOR THESE IMPACTS? We
don't think so. Voters In the City of Bishop, Town of Mammoth Lakes
and Mono County didn’t think so either. They recently raised their
T.O.T. to the same 12% proposed here.

Your YES vote will result in a 3% increase in our bed tax. The
tax on a night stay at a motel will rise from 9 to 12%. This will
have virtually no impact on the tax burden of Inyo County citizens.
THIS IS NOT A TAX ON OUR BUSINESS OWNERS OR OUR
CITIZENS.

WE URGE YOU TO VOTE YES ON BALLOT MEASURE “A” <favorend>







<favorsigs> s/ Dan Lucas
Sheriff
s/ Art Maillet
District Attorney
s/ Jim Moffett
Chief Probation Officer <favorsigsend>







<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Join us in voting NO on Measure A.

Supplant as Webster's Dictionary defines it, “To take the place
of. esp. by underhanded means or by force.” If the county had
meant for this measure to only support law enforcement then why
use the word supplant at all. Is this measure to help law
enforcement, or is it to supplant money from the general fund
that would normally be spent on law enforcement?

Those in favor of this bill are telling us that tourism is responsible
for half our solid waste and for more than half of the people currently
in our courts and jail and yet this measure would tax less than 12% of
the tourist traffic on highway 395. If the largest industry in our county
is having such a negative impact, why tax such a small portion of
them?

The fact is even if this measure passes it will not fix our budget
problems, the roofs of county buildings will still leak and long awaited
projects will still go undone. We deserve better than this hastily
prepared deceptively written measure.

Join us in voting NO on Measure A, <rebutfavorend>







<rebutfavorsigs> s/ David D. Blacker
President, Death Valley Chamber of Commerce
s/ Kathleen New
Executive Director, Lone Pine Chamber of Commerce
s/ Mike Valenzuela
Executive Director, Big Pine Chamber of Commerce <rebutfavorsigsend>








<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Vote NO on Measure A. Do not be deceived by the proponents
of Measure A. The Measure DOES NOT guarantee that the money
raised by the new Transient Occupancy Tax will be spent on Law
Enforcement. The truth is that the Measure merely creates a new
and additional source of discretionary tax revenue for the Inyo County
Board of Supervisors to spend as they see fit. The inclusion of the
word “supplant” in Section IVB of the Measure makes that clear
Vote NO on Measure A. because we DO recognize and always
will that Law Enforcement is the #1 priority of our County government.
We believe law enforcement deserves better than a slight of hand,
promising the moon and delivering a black hole.

Vote NO on Measure A. because Measure A is misleading.
Measure A deceives voters into believing that the new Transient
Occupancy Tax will always be spent on Law Enforcement. The truth
is that the Board of Supervisors will determine how the new tax
money will be spent.

Vote NO on Measure A. because we, the voters of Inyo County,
deserve better from our County Board of Supervisors. Whether
intentionally or unintentionally, Measure A is misleading. The manner
in which Measure A has been written is disrespectful to voters of
Inyo County. Do the members of the Board of Supervisors really
believe that we cannot read and correctly interpret such a poorly
written tax measure?

Vote NO on Measure A. because the board is capable of drafting
a clear and concise tax Measure, a Measure that says what it means
and means what it says.

We urge you to vote NO on Measure A. <againstend>







<againstsigs> s/ David D. Blacker
President

Death Valley Chamber of Commerce

s/ Kathleen New
Executive Director
Lone Pine Chamber of Commerce

s/ Mike Valenzuela
Executive Director
Big Pine Chamber of Commerce <againstsigsend>









<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

The opponents to Measure A claim the Measure is “misleading”.
The “Inyo Register” newspaper calls THE OPPONENTS BALLOT
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A, “misleading” and “factually
incorrect”. We believe Inyo voters will judge for themselves and
conclude that Measure A is a reasonable response to the impact
of the ever-increasing numbers of tourists and travelers in our
small County.

The opponents totally ignore the reality of those impacts and
offer no meaningful alternative. We feel that visitors and travelers
should contribute to the costs the County of Inyo assumes when
out of County visitors break the law. We don’t think it is fair that
our local taxpayers continue to pay that bill. This measure has
virtually NO IMPACT on INYO RESIDENTS. It is also NOT A TAX
ON MOTEL OWNERS. The bed tax VISITORS PAY for a night’s
stay in our motels will increase to 12 percent. Motel owners are
REIMBURSED BY THE COUNTY for any costs related to collecting
and submitting this tax revenue.

We believe the real reason the three Chamber representatives
oppose the measure is unspoken, but transparent. If this were called
“The Special Tax in Support of local Chambers of Commerce” they’d
be in support. Our Board of Supervisors contributes some of our
tax dollars, each year, to the Chambers. The Board also places a
HIGHER PRIORITY ON OUR LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT. We
believe our local voters will support Law Enforcement as well.

WE ASK FOR YOUR YES VOTE ON MEASURE A. <rebutagainstend>








<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Arthur J. Maillet
District Attorney

s/ Leslie L. Chapman
Inyo County Auditor -Controller

s/ Jim Moffett
Chief Probation Officer

s/ Dan Lucas
Sheriff <rebutagainstsigsend> 
