ORDINANCE NO. 372

HC>

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BIGGS, CALIFORNIA
CODIFYING A SPECIAL TAX MEASURE FOR STANDBY COSTS
OF PROVIDING EMERGENCY ROOM SERVICES IN A CRITICAL
ACCESS HOSPITAL (BIGGS-GRIDLEY HOSPITAL) BY ADDING A
NEW CHAPTER 3.30 ENTITLED “CITY OF BIGGS STANDBY
COSTS OF PROVIDING EMERGENCY ROOM SERVICES JN
A CRITICAL ACCESS HOSPITAL (BIGGS-GRIDLEY HOSPITAL)
PARCEL TAX” TO TITLE 3 “REVENUE AND FINANCE” OF
THE BIGGS MUNICIPAL CODE
(CODIFIED)

*********************************************************

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BIGGS does ordain as follows:

SECTION 1:	Chapter 3.30, entitled "City of Biggs Standby Costs of Providing Emergency

Room Services in a Critical Access Hospital (Biggs-Gridley Hospital) Parcel Tax,” previously
adopted by resolution, is hereby enacted and shall read as follows:

3.30.010	Cited.

This section 3.30 may be cited as the “City of Biggs Standby Costs of Providing
Emergency Room Services in a Critical Access Hospital (Biggs-Gridley Hospital) Parcel Tax.”

3.30.020	Necessity, Authority, and Purpose.

The City Council (Council) of the City of Biggs (City) hereby determines as follows:

(1)	That the cost to maintain satisfactory levels of health care at the local health care
facilities is greater than those facilities receive.

(2)	Absent supplemental funding by the citizens of Biggs, the local health care
facilities will be forced to close.

(3)	Closure of the local health care facilities would constitute a detriment of and to
the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the City.

(4)	That the levy of a City-wide special tax as hereinafter provided is necessary to
provide funding to maintain the local health care facilities and services.

City of Biggs Ordinance No. 372

Page 1 of 6

3.30.030

Tax Levied.



The Tax not exceeding the maximum amount set forth in this Section 3.30.030 is
hereby levied, commencing in the fiscal year 2006-2007, on all taxable properties within the
boundaries of the City at the maximum flat rate of seventy dollars ($70.00) per Single Family
Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU). For the purposes of defining an Equivalent Residential Unit,
the following categories are established:

(1)	Single family residential (1);

(2)	Multi-family residential unit (.75);

(3)	Condominium (.75);

(4)	Vacant parcels and parcels without residential units shall not be subject to the
Tax;

For purposes of this Chapter, “taxable” properties are those not owned by the City, the
State of California, any other public district or agency of the State or the United States of
America.

The Tax shall not exceed the maximum amount set forth in this section 3.30.030, except
that the Tax may be increased annually by the annual percent increase for the prior calendar year,
if any, by the percentage equal to the percentage change in the Construction Engineering Index
for the geographic area most applicable for the preceding twelve (12) month period calculated
from April 1 to March 31. If this index should cease publication, the City Administrator shall
use any appropriate official index published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or successor, or
similar agency as may then exist or may then may be most nearly equivalent thereto.

3.30.040	Purposes and Uses of Tax.

The proceeds of the Tax shall be deposited in a special fiind, maintained by the City,
which proceeds, together with any interest and penalties thereon, collected each fiscal year
(collectively, the "Tax Proceeds,”), shall be used for maintenance of local health care. The City
may transfer the Tax Proceeds to another public entity for the same purpose. The City shall
direct and oversee the expenditure of the Tax Proceeds.

3.30.050	Exemptions.

The Tax imposed by this chapter shall be subject to the exemptions set forth in this
section.

330.050.10	Low-Income Homeowner Exemption

Exempt from this Tax are owners of single-family residential units in which they reside
whose combined family income, from all sources for the previous calendar year, is at or below
the income level qualifying as "very low-income" for a family of such size under Section 8 of the
' United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S C.A. Sections 1437 et seq.], for such year. The

City of Biggs Ordinance No. 372	Page	2	of	6

MX

application process will be in the form of self-certification under penalty of perjury. Owners
must apply for the exemption provided for in this section annually by petition to the Finance
Director of the City in the manner and at the time set forth by the Finance Director. Such
petitions shall be on forms provided by the Finance Director and shall provide such information
as the Finance Director may require. If the Finance Director determines the need to audit an
application, the Finance Director of Finance may require additional information, including, but
not limited to, federal income tax returns and W-2 forms of owner-occupants eligible for this
exemption.

3.30.060 Computation and-Collection of Tax.

The City's Finance Director or his/her designee or employee is hereby authorized and
directed each fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year 2006-2007, to determine the Tax
amount to be levied for the next ensuing fiscal year for each taxable parcel of real property
within the City, in the manner and as provided in Section 3.30.030. The Finance Director is
hereby authorized and directed to provide all necessary information to the auditor/tax collector of
the County of Butte to effect proper billing and collection of the Tax, so that the installments of
the Tax shall be included on file secured property tax roll of the County of Butte. Unless
otherwise required by the Council, no Council action shall be required to authorize the annual
collection of the Tax as herein provided.

3.30.070	Accountability.

Pursuant to Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3 of the California Government Code, the
specific purposes of the Tax and the requirement that the Tax proceeds be applied to such
purposes and the establishment of a special fund for the Tax proceeds are as set forth in section
3.30.030. So long as the Tax is collected hereunder, commencing no later than July 1,2007, or as
soon thereafter after said Tax may be levied, the Finance Director is hereby authorized and
directed to cause to be prepared and filed with the Council a report that shows the amount of Tax
collected and expended and the status of any projects funded with the Tax Proceeds. For
purposes of this section 3.30.070, the Finance Director is authorized to retain such consultants,
accountants or agents as may be necessary or convenient to accomplish the foregoing.

3.30.080	Examination of Books and Records and Annual Audit.

The Finance Director or his/her designee or employee or agent, is hereby authorized and
directed to examine assessment rolls, property tax records, records of the Butte County Recorder
and any other records of the County of Butte deemed necessary in order to determine ownership
of parcels and computation of the Tax. A certified public accounting firm retained by the City
will perform an annual audit to assure accountability of the proper disbursement of these Tax
Proceeds in accordance with the objectives stated herein.

3.30.090	Property Tax.

This special tax is a property tax and qualified property owners and renters shall be
City of Biggs Ordinance No. 372 -	Page	3	of	6

entitled to the benefits of California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 20501 et seq and the
Senior Citizens and Disabled Property Tax Postponement Law (California Revenue and Taxation
Code Section 20581 et seq.), as provided by law.

3.30.100 Collection of Tax: Interest and Penalties.

The Tax shall be collected in the same manner as ordinary ad valorem taxes are collected
and shall have the same lien priority, and be subject to the same penalties and the same
procedure and sale in cases of delinquency as provided for ad valorem taxes collected by the
County.of Butte; provided, however, .that the Council may provide for other appropriate methods
of collection of the Tax by appropriate resolution(s) of the Council.

3.30.110 Collection of Unpaid Taxes.

The amount of the Tax, any penalty, and any interest imposed under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City. In addition to the real property lien status imposed
by this Chapter and by law, delinquent taxes and penalties shall also be considered the personal
debt of the person(s) owning the subject property. Any person owing money under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be personally liable to all action brought in the name of the City,
at its option, for the recovery for such amount.

3.30.120 Refund of Tax, Penalty, or Interest paid More Than Once or Erroneously or
Illegally Collected.

When the amount of the Tax, any penalty, or any interest has been paid more than once,
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under this section, it may be
refunded, provided a verified claim, in writing, therefore, stating the specific ground(s) upon
which claim is founded, is filed with the Finance Director within one (1) year from the date of
payment, if the claim is approved by the Finance Director, the excess amount collected or paid
may be refunded or may be credited against any amounts then due and payable from the person
from whom it was collected or by whom paid, and the balance may be refunded to such person,
his/her administrators or executors.

3.30.130 Savings Clause.

The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person, or to any property as to
whom or which it is beyond the power of the City to impose the Tax herein provided. If
any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this section is found to be unconstitutional,
illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only such provision,
sentence, clause, section or part of this section and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this section. It is hereby declared to be the
intention of the City that this section would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal
or invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.

City of Biggs Ordinance No. 372

Page 4 of 6

3.30.140 Regulations.



The Council is hereby authorized to promulgate such regulations as it shall deem
necessary to implement the provision of this section, including implementing this Chapter which
is hereby codified in Title 3 of the Biggs Municipal Code or as otherwise directed by the City.

3.30.150	Increased Appropriations	Limit.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriation limit for the City of
Biggs is hereby-increased by the aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this Tax for fiscal year
2006-07 and each year thereafter.

3.30.160	Operative Date and Termination Date.

3.30.160.10	Operative Date

Operative Date means the first day that the Tax is imposed and collected. The operative
date shall be April 1, 2007.

3.30.160.20	Termination Date.

The authority to levy the Tax imposed by this Ordinance shall extend only through June
30, 2017.

SECTION 2: This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the Tax by the City and
shall be in full force and effect following its adoption by at least four (4) affirmative votes of the
Council and its publication, and upon the approval of the Tax imposed hereunder by two-thirds
of the voters of the City voting thereon at an election called for that purpose. The “operative
date” of the Tax imposed hereunder shall be as provided in section 3.30.160.10.

•k'k'k'ick'kic'kic'k'k'k'k'k'k'klc'kic’kicic’klc'k'k'k'k'ic’klc'k'kick'k’k’k'kJck’klc’kic'k’klrk’k'k'klc’k

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing Ordinance was duly and regularly introduced and read at a
regular meeting held on the 20th day of November, 2006, and was passed and adopted by the City Council
of the City of Biggs at a regular meeting thereof duly held on the 18th day of December, 2006 by the
following vote, to wit:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBER: Frith. Busch. Arnold. Richins & Terry

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBER: _

ABSENT: COUNCILMEMBER: .

ABSTAIN: COUNCILMEMBER:

City of Biggs Ordinance No. 372

Page 5 of 6

City of Biggs Ordinance No. 372

Page 6 of 6