SLEEPY HOLLOW FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT MEASURE 0

OTo continue emergency paramedic care, shall
there be a special tax for paramedic services in
the amount of $39 increasing by $3.00 per year
not to exceed $48 for each living unit, and in the
amount of $39 increasing by $3.00 per year per 1,500
square feet of structure of each developed parcel in
nonresidential use with the appropriations limit
increased by the amount of said tax for the next four
years?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASUREO

SLEEPY HOLLOW
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

MEASURE O
If this measure is approved by two-thirds of the voters,
the Sleepy Hollow Fire Protection District shall be autho-
rized to levy a special tax to continue emergency para-
medic services in the amount of thirty nine dollars
($39.00) increasing by three dollars ($3.00) per year not-
to-exceed forty eight dollars ($48.00) for each living unit,
and in the amount of thirty nine dollars ($39.00) increas-
ing by three ($3.00) per year per fifteen hundred (1,500)
square feet of structure for each developed parcel in non-
residential use, with the appropriations limit increased by
the amount of said tax for the next four years.

Dated: August 24, 2006

s/PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

Since 1982, voters within the Sleepy Hollow Fire Protec-
tion District have overwhelmingly approved a special tax
to provide paramedic service, including a County-record
93% approval in 2002. To continue this high standard of
emergency medical care for four more years, you must
now re-approve this tax with a modest proposed increase.
The initial Ross Valley Paramedic Authority (RVPA) tax
provided for a single ambulance. The demand for para-
medic service from our citizens dictates that service levels
continue to expand and evolve. We ask that you consider
a modest increase of $9.00 in the first year and, if needed,
a $3.00 annual increase in the remaining three years, in
order to maintain current levels of service and to plan for
future improvements based on community demand for
high quality, fire department-based, advanced life support
paramedic services.

Your parcel tax pays for a significant portion of the para-
medic program and enables the RVPA not to directly bill
Sleepy Hollow resident customers. Additional funds are
collected from medical insurance companies and through
billing of non-resident customers. In addition, your tax
covers expenses associated with paramedic training, med-
ical supplies and equipment, and the replacement of
ambulance vehicles when needed.

Our goal is to continue to provide state-of-the-art para-
medic care in Sleepy Hollow and in the Ross Valley. We
need your vote to continue this vital service. Vote YES on
Measure O.
s/THOMAS J. FINN
Director/Secretary, Sleepy Hollow
Fire Protection District

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O
WAS FILED.

SHM-1