TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO MEASURE G

GTo continue emergency paramedic care, shall
there be a special tax for paramedic services in
the amount of $39 increasing by $3.00 per year
not to exceed $48 for each living unit, and in the
amount of $39 increasing by $3.00 per year per 1,500
square feet of structure of each developed parcel in
nonresidential use with the appropriations limit
increased by the amount of said tax for the next four
years?

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE G

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the special
tax for paramedic services administered by a Joint Powers
Authority authorized by die voters in 1982, 1986, 1991,
1994, 1998 and 2002 will be continued with a tax of $39
increasing by $3.00 per year not to exceed $48 for each liv-
ing unit, and in the amount of $39 increasing by $3.00 per
year per 1,500 square feet of structure of each developed
parcel in non-residential use, to be collected in addition to
fees for transport to the hospital charged to insurance
providers, without collection pursued against uninsured
persons. The applicable appropriations limit pursuant to
Article X1UB of the California Constitution will be
increased in an amount equal to the proceeds of the special
tax. The special tax and die corresponding increase in the
appropriations limit expire on June 30, 2011.

s/ROBERTF. EPSTEIN
Town Attorney
Town of San Anselmo

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Since 1982, the voters in the Ross Valley have overwhelm-
ingly approved a special tax to provide paramedic service.
To continue this high standard of emergency medical care
for four more years, you must now re-approve this tax with
a modest proposed increase. The initial Ross Valley Para-
medic Authority (RVPA) tax provided for a single ambu-
lance. The demand for paramedic service from our citizens
dictates that service levels continue to expand and evolve.
We ask that you consider a modest increase of $9 in the
first year and if needed a $3.00 annual increase in the
remaining 3 years, in order to maintain our current levels
of service and to plan for future improvements based on
community demand for high quality, fire department based,
advanced life support paramedic services.

Your parcel tax pays for a significant portion of the para-
medic program and enables us not to directly bill our Ross
Valley resident customers. Additional funds are collected
from medical insurance companies and through billing of
non-resident customers. In addition, your tax covers
expenses associated with paramedic training, medical, sup-
plies and equipment, and the replacement of ambulance
vehicles when needed.

Our goal is to continue to provide state of the art paramedic
care in the Ross Valley. We need your vote to continue this
vital service. Vote YES on Measure G.
s/B ARB ARA THORNTON
Mayor
s/WAYNE COOPER
Vice Mayor
s/PETER BREEN
Councilmember
s/TED FREEMAN
Councilmember .
s/IANROTH
Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G
WAS FILED.



SAM-1