VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE A

SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALIFIED

A SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAMS. To maintain existing school programs and
improve the quality of education; to provide funds to buy
updated textbooks and materials for math, reading, and writing
courses; and to enhance critical computer science, library, and
arts programs, shall the Shoreline Unified School District extend
the existing $151.82 a year parcel tax, increasing annually at 4%,
for no more than six years?

Remember, Measure A is a continuation of the support the community has given to
its schools since 1984. Please continue this important support by voting Yes on
Measure A.

si Carol J. Friedman, Director	si	Michael Whitt

Dance Palace Community Center	MD

si James G. Lino
S.U.S.D. Trustee

si Clairette C. Wilson
MCOE Trustee

s/Tim Furlong
Contractor

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE A

COUNTY COUNSELS’ IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The Shoreline Unified School District has called an election on a special tax
measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
the purposes set out in the measure, which include maintaining existing school
programs; hiring qualified personnel; purchasing updated textbooks and materials
for math, reading, and writing courses; and enhancing school programs such as
computer science, library, music, physical education, foreign language study, and
art.

State law establishes accountability measures which require filing of an annual re-
port by the chief fiscal officer of the district stating the amount of funds collected
and expended, and the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by
the tax measure.

The tax would begin on July 1,2007, and would remain in effect for no more than
six years. The tax would be collected and administered in the same manner as regu-
lar ad valorem property taxes, under the provisions of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Shoreline Unified School District who vote on this
measure vote "yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied.

si Patrick K. Faulkner	si	Steven	Woodside

Marin County Counsel	Sonoma	County	Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Our community has wisely supported a local parcel tax since 1984. This support
has enabled the Shoreline Unified School District to maintain quality programs in
the areas of school libraries, art, drama, music, foreign language, counseling, and
technology. Your parcel tax has also helped to continue supporting the hiring of
classroom aides where needed. The purchase of current textbooks and materials
to enhance math, reading and writing courses has also been supported by the pre-
vious parcel taxes.

Measure A will allow the community's students to continue receiving services and
instruction in these areas, along with continuing specialty programs that enrich
their total educational experience.

The programs that are supported by Measure A can only be maintained by the
continuation of this Parcel Tax. These important programs cannot be maintained
through the general budget.

As the challenges of maintaining a strong quality public education for our commu-
nity's children continue to build, so does the importance of maintaining these im-
portant programs. Our children must be able to compete in a very demanding
world. These programs help give students a well-rounded quality education. A bal-
anced education is critical in order for students to develop into educated and con-
tributing members of our society.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

To maintain existing school programs and improve the quality of education;
to provide funds to buy updated textbooks and materials for math, reading, and
writing courses; and to enhance critical computer science, library, and arts pro-
grams, shall the Shoreline Unified School District extend the existing $151.82 a year
parcel tax, increasing annually at 4%, for no more than six years?

The parcel tax revenue shall be allocated to provide a rich, fully integrated
and comprehensive academic program for students through the hiring of qualified
personnel and the purchase of equipment and material as recommended by each
School Site Council in the following areas:

LIBRARY PROGRAM

COMPUTER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

MUSIC

ART

FOREIGN LANGUAGE
CLASSROOM AIDES'

COUNSELING
DRAMA
FIELD TRIPS
PHYSICAL EDUCATION
NUTRITION EDUCATION

SUPPORT OTHER ACADEMIC/EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS (not to
exceed 10% of the total parcel tax revenue)

Section 2. The revenue derived from this qualified special tax assessment
to maintain and expand school programs shall be used solely and exclusively for
the purposes set forth above.

Section 3. If any provision of this section or of any other section of this Reso-
lution or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this section or of any
other section of this Resolution which can be given effect without the invalid provi-
sion or application, and to this end, the provision of this section and other sections
of this Resolution are severable.

57

9350