PAGE

CITY

DIAMOND BAR CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

LTo Finance the construction and furnishing of a library benefiting the
residents of the City of Diamond Bar, shall Community Facilities District No.

2006-1 of the City of Diamond Bar issue not to exceed $13,100,000 of
bonds at legal rates and levy special taxes to finance debt service on the bonds
and operating costs of the library and the District, and establish an appropriations limit of $550,000?

236

YES-*Q

237

N0-*O

END OF BALLOT

10-007E

LA 506-015

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

Ballot Measure L is a proposal to approve a special tax and issue bonds to
finance the construction and operation of a new City library.

The new library would be constructed adjacent to the Diamond Bar Center in
Summitridge Park to replace the existing 9,935 square foot library on Grand
Avenue. The new library would be approximately 24,500 square feet in size and
would house a larger collection of books and materials and other amenities than
the existing library.

It is anticipated that the total design and construction cost of the library would
be $15 million; of that, $4 million would be contributed from the City’s General
Fund and the remaining $11 million would be raised by issuance of not to exceed
$13.1 million in municipal bonds. Issuing bonds is a method by which a city can
borrow money to construct new improvements and repay the loan over time at a
lower interest rate than is commercially available. The bonds are repaid from the
proceeds of the special tax. The interest rate on the bonds cannot by law exceed
12% and is likely to fall between 5% and 6%, depending on market conditions at
the time of sale.

The special tax would be imposed on every improved parcel of land in the City. A
portion of the tax would be used to retire the debt created by the issuance of the
bonds, and would be collected for approximately 30 years. The remaining portion
would pay the annual operating costs of the library and be collected indefinitely.

The annual amount of the tax would be as set forth in the following table:

Tax  Class	Land Use Type	Special Tax to Repay Bonds	Special Tax to Pay Operating Costs	Total Special Tax
1	Single-Family  Residential	$61.20 per Unit	$27.80 per Unit	$89.00 per Unit
2	Multi-Family  Residential	$44.50 per Unit	$20.30 per Unit	$64.80 per Unit
3	Commercial  Property	$55.30 per Parcel	$25.20 per Parcel	$80.50 per Parcel
4	Industrial  Property	$41.20 per Parcel	$18.80 per Parcel	$60.00 per Parcel

(Continued on next page)

PR-900101-1

LA 506-025

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L (Continued)

The principal amount of the tax could not be increased without another vote of
the people; however, the library operations portion of the tax could at any time
be decreased by the City Council. For each subsequent fiscal year after Fiscal
Year 2006-2007, the library operations portion of the tax for each improved
parcel will be adjusted by the annual percentage change in the Consumer Price
Index reported in March of the prior fiscal year.

Ballot Measure L also establishes an “appropriations limit” of $550,000. This is
the total amount that the City can spend on library operations each fiscal year,
adjusted each year by the annual percentage change in the Consumer Price
Index.

A two-thirds (2/3) vote of those voting on the measure is required for passage of
the special tax. A “yes” vote is in favor of the library tax; a “no” vote is against
the tax.

MICHAEL JENKINS
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure L. If you desire a copy
of the measure, please call the City Clerk’s office at (909) 839-7010 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you.

PR-900101-2

LA 506-026

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Diamond Bar is a well educated community that deserves a 1st class library. The
City’s community center task force listed a new library as the #1
recommendation for a new public facility after the community center was built.
The recent city phone survey showed that 75% of the voters called want that new
library.

The New Library will bring us services that the current site just can’t
accommodate. It will expand from 9,935 square feet to 24,422 square feet with
ample parking to allow easy access to all the FREE services this state of the art
learning and technology center has to offer: infrastructure to support multiple
computers, meeting rooms for community use, year round educational programs
for all ages, exhibit areas to display our diverse culture and history.

Our young people will find free homework help, after school programs and
services integrated with the objectives of the Walnut Valley and Pomona School
Districts.

This bond measure will cost you $61.20 a year per residential parcel on your
property tax bill for 30 years for the building and $27.80 a year for the library
operation. Unlike a traditional tax, 100% of your assessment comes directly to
our own community. This amounts to $1.71/week or LESS THAN THE PRICE
OF A CUP OF COFFEE.

VOTE YES ON THE DIAMOND BAR LIBRARY MEASURE

RICHARD G. MALOOLY
Business Man

JOHN A. FORBING
Former Mayor

ORIEN J. PAGAN

Business Owner/Community Volunteer

NANCY A. LYONS
Teachcr/Community Volunteer

WEN CHANG
Councilmember

PR-900101 -3

LA 506-027

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

Everyone wants a better education for our children. But let’s not confuse this
with building a new library.

We already have a great library, paid from our existing property taxes! It’s
centrally located, with books, videos, internet access and has met the needs of
our community as it grew, and will continue to now as our student population is
declining.

What has changed? A small group of folks have framed the discussion that our
library is no longer adequate.

Really? Our schools remain the best, with student scores continuing to climb.
Each school and many classrooms already have their own library. In the last few
years, the Internet, rather than the public library, has become the primary place
for students and adults to gather information. Google is scanning entire libraries

to soon be available on the Internet.

Taxing ourselves higher to build an opulent, $15 million clubhouse for a few, as a
monument to the past would be an expensive price to pay for nostalgia.

Let’s not confuse wants with needs. We don’t need a new tax that will never
expire, but will increase without our vote, to pay for something we already have.
Additionally, our beautiful new community center provides ample meeting-room
space, has plenty of parking, and also has computers with internet access.

Think about how much you use our library, about where your family gets its
information, and how much you already pay in federal, state, and local taxes.

Vote no on the library parcel tax!

BOB HUFF

Assemblyman, 60th A.D.

CAROL HERRERA
Mayor of Diamond Bar

JACK SHAH

Chairman, Traffic and Trans. Commission City of Diamond Bar, CA
ANYORK LEE

Former Board Member of Walnut Valley Unified School District

JERRY C. HAMILTON
Senior Citizen

PR-900101'4

LA 506-028