EXHIBIT A

PROPOSED MEASURE

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF RICHMOND
ENACTING THE RICHMOND BUSINESS LICENSE ACT

The People of the City of Richmond, California, do ordain as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 7.04 of the Richmond Municipal Code is hereby amended
and restated to read as follows:

Chapter 7.04 BUSINESS LICENSE ACT

7.04.010	Purpose.

This chapter shall be known as the "Richmond Business License Act." This chapter is
enacted solely to raise revenue for municipal purposes and is not intended for the purpose
of regulation. The license fees payable hereunder are general taxes within the meaning of
Article XIIIC of the California Constitution. This chapter shall apply to all persons
engaged in business in the City of Richmond.

7.04.015 Business License Required; Replacement of Existing Licenses.

(a)	All persons conducting any business in the City of Richmond shall be required to
obtain a business license and pay the applicable fee pursuant to this chapter. Each
business license shall be for the period commencing on January 1 and ending on
December 31 of each year, unless otherwise provided herein. Unless a period of shorter
than one year for the license fee is specified in this chapter, each license shall be for a
period of one calendar year. The license fee shall not be prorated for any period shorter
than the period specified in the applicable section of this chapter for payment of the fee.

(b)	Any person holding an existing business license issued pursuant to this chapter prior
to December 31, 2006 shall be required to obtain a renewed license effective January 1,
2007 for calendar year 2007. A credit toward the 2007 license fee payable hereunder
shall be given equal to the product of (i) the license fee paid for the existing license times
(ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months remaining from January 1,
2007 to the expiration date of the existing license (with a full month's credit given for any
fraction of a month) and the denominator of which is 12. Any business license issued
prior to December 31, 2006 shall expire on such date and shall be superseded by the new
license issued pursuant to this chapter.

7.04.017 New Businesses.

For any person who establishes a new business in the City of Richmond and which has
not operated any business in the City of Richmond in the preceding five years, the fees

US_WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

1

under this chapter shall be waived (i) if the date of establishment of such business is after
June 30 of any year, for the period commencing on the date of establishment of such
business and ending on the December 31 which is at least 12 months after the date of
establishment of the business, or (ii) if the date of establishment of such business is prior
to July 1 of any year, for the period commencing on the date of establishment of such
business and ending on the next December 31. Thereafter, such business shall be
required to pay the fees specified in this chapter.

7.04.020	Definitions.

In this chapter the singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular, and the
masculine gender includes the other genders. The word “shall” is mandatory, “may” is
permissive.

“Arcade” means a general room or enclosure in which is conducted a business of
operating or exhibiting any phonograph, graphaphone talking machine, music machine,
kinetoscope, biograph, projectoscope, or any other instrument or machine of like
character, or exhibiting, showing, or letting the use of any game of skill, microscope,
lungtester, muscle-tester, galvanic battery, weighing machine, fortune telling machine, or
machine of similar character.

“Armed Forces of the United States” as used in this chapter means the Army, Navy, Air
Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and Revenue Marine (Revenue Cutter) Service of the
United States.

“Carnival” means any commercialized merrymaking, whether upon a public street or
otherwise, wherein there is any performance or exhibition of any kind or character, or
concession or group of concessions, or tests of skill, or merry-go-round or ferris wheel or
animals or clowns or side shows of any kind.

“Circus” means any exhibition in which seats for spectators are arranged in tiers, and in
which are shown feats of horsemanship, balancing, tumbling, vaulting, where clowns and
singers and acrobats and wild animals and performers and actors entertain the audience.

"Direct relative" means a spouse, parent, parent-in-law, grandparent, grandparent-in-law,
brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, child, or
grandchild.

“Disabled war veteran” means a war veteran who is disabled ten percent or more which
disability was incurred in connection with his service in the armed forces of the United
States during time of war or while participating in a campaign or expedition.

“Employed” means engaged or employed as an employee in a business which is subject
to regulation under this chapter.

“Employee” means all persons engaged in the operation or conduct of any business,
whether as owner, any member of owner’s family, partner, associate, agent, manager, or
solicitor, and any and all other persons engaged or employed in said business. 2

2

“Engaged in business” means the conducting, managing or carrying on of any business
herein specified by any person as owner, officer, agent, manager, employee, servant, or
lessee.

“Evidence of doing business” means and includes whenever any person, by use of signs,
circulars, cards or any other advertising media, holds oneself out as, or represents that
person as doing business in the city.

“Itinerant show” means any temporary or transient show or theatrical performance, such
as is usually given in theaters, and which is conducted in any structure or tent hired,
leased, or erected for such purpose.

"Leasable square footage" means, with respect to non-residential property leased or
available for lease, (i) if such property is a building, the "building rentable area" (with
respect to an entire building) or "floor rentable area'" (with respect to a portion of a
building) as defined in standard ANSI/BOMA Z-65.1-1996, as amended from time to
time, published by the American National Standards Institute, or if such standard is not
longer published, by any comparable standard selected by the Tax Collector. With
respect to any property subject to a ground lease, leasable square footage means the total
gross square footage of the property leased or available for lease, less any amount of the
property which is not or would not be usable by the tenant due to easements, access
roads, open space or buffer requirements, set-backs or similar restrictions.

"Manufacturing" means the activity of converting or conditioning tangible personal
property by changing the form, composition, or quality of character of some existing
material or materials, including natural resources, by procedures commonly regarded by
the average person as manufacturing, compounding, processing or assembling, into a
material or materials with a different form or use. Manufacturing includes any process of
refining or processing hydrocarbons, petroleum or crude oil to produce products for use
as fuels, lubricants, solvents, plastics, or other intermediate or final products.

"Materials used in manufacturing" means any and all materials used by a business
engaged in manufacturing any part of which becomes a part of a product produced by the
manufacturing business. With respect to any business which refines, distills, or otherwise
manufactures any product using hydrocarbons, petroleum or crude oil of any type,
materials used in manufacturing includes all of such materials used in such
manufacturing process. For any taxable period, materials used in manufacturing does not
include any materials acquired, stored or transported which are not actually subjected to
the manufacturing process during the taxable period.

"Non-residential property" means any property which is not residential property.

"Offered to the public" means, with respect to rental property, any activity the purpose of
which is to solicit prospective tenants, including advertising in any public media or by

US_WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

3

way of signage or listing with any real estate agent or leasing agent or on any listing
service.

“Peddler” or “solicitor” means any person going from door to door or doing business at
any place other than in a permanent store building, selling, taking orders for or soliciting
orders for goods, wares, or merchandise.

“Person” means any domestic or foreign corporations, limited liability companies,
associations, syndicates, joint stock companies, firms, partnerships of every kind, trusts,
societies, and individuals.

“Professional carnival operator” means any person whose business is the operation,
management or carrying on of a carnival or of performances, exhibitions, concessions,
rides or other apparatus designed for or employed in the conduct of a carnival.

"Residential property" means any property used as a dwelling for human habitation,
including, without limitation, an apartment unit, duplex, multi-plex, single family house,
townhome, or condominium, and any lot rented for use by a resident in a mobile home
park. Residential property does not include any unit which is subject to tax pursuant to
Chapter 7.88.

“Rodeo” means any exhibition or contest of skill in riding, racing, roping, throwing, or
otherwise controlling broken or unbroken horses or cattle for the entertainment of
spectators.

“Sworn statement” means a written statement sworn to before the Tax Collector or any
officer authorized by law to administer oaths.

“Tax Collector” means the Director of Finance of the City.

"Value" means, with respect to materials used in manufacturing, the actual cost or fair
market value, whichever is greater, of all of the materials used in manufacturing. With
respect to any materials used in manufacturing for which there is a published spot price in
the financial markets, "value" shall be deemed to be equal to such published spot price
for purposes of this chapter unless substantial evidence is presented to the Tax Collector
that the actual fair market value of the materials is lower. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
for purposes of calculating the license fee for any manufacturing process involving crude
oil, the value of such crude oil shall be deemed to be equal to the product of (i) the total
amount of crude oil used during the period of calculation for the business license, times
(ii) the average daily spot price of New York Mercantile Exchange Inc. Light Sweet
Crude Oil (trading symbol CL), or, if such index is no longer published, such other index
as is determined to be comparable by the Tax Collector, for such period.

“War veteran” as used in this chapter means any person who has served in the armed
forces of the United States during time of war or in a campaign or expedition in time of

US_WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

4

peace for which a medal has been issued by the Congress of the United States and who
has received an honorable discharge or release from such service.

“Waf ’ and “campaign” as used in this chapter mean those wars and campaigns referred to
in Section 205 of the Revenue Code of the state and in any amendment or revision of said
section hereafter enacted.

Words and phrases not specifically defined in this chapter shall be construed according to
the context and approved usage of the language.

7.04.023 Adjustment of Rates. Section 13 .45 of the Richmond Municipal Code
shall not apply to this chapter. Every amount or rate of license fee provided in this
chapter expressed in dollars and cents shall be adjusted each January 1,
commencing January 1, 2008, in accordance with the average change in the prior
year of the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco - Oakland - San Jose
Metropolitan Statistical Area, Non-Seasonally Adjusted (U S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics Series ID CUURA422SA0, CUUSA422SA0) or, if such index is no
longer published, such other comparable index as selected by the Tax Collector.
License taxes provided for in this chapter expressed as a percentage or rate
multiplied by gross receipts or value shall not be adjusted as provided in this
section.

7.04.025 Manufacturers.

Every person engaged in manufacturing shall pay annually an annual license fee of
the greater of: (i) the license fee which would apply to such person if such person
were subject to the provisions of Section 7.04.030 or (ii) a fee equal to one eighth
of one percent (0.125%) of the value of the materials used in the manufacturing
process during the calendar year immediately preceding the year for which the fee
is paid.

7.04.027 Rental Property.

Every person who rents or leases or offers for rent or lease real property within the
City of Richmond shall pay an annual license fee equal to the following:

(a)	for residential property, the fee shall be equal to $90 per unit for the first 25
units, $75 per unit for the next 35 units and $55 per unit for all units over 60 units.

For purposes of this section, all units owned by the same licensee shall be
aggregated, regardless of location.

(b)	for non-residential property, the fee shall be equal to the product of three cents
($0.03) times the leasable square footage of the property.

No annual fee shall be payable with respect to any property or portion of property
rented or leased by a person to (i) another person who is a direct relative of the 5

5

landlord or (ii) a business entity wholly owned or controlled by the landlord if such
business entity is otherwise subject to tax under this chapter.

No annual fee shall be payable with respect to property which is vacant and is not
offered to the public for rent or lease during any portion of the year for which the
fee would otherwise be payable.

7.04.030	Wholesalers, retailers, persons providing services and persons
conducting other business.

Every person engaged in the wholesaling or retailing business or providing any service to
the public or engaging in or conducting any other business not elsewhere in this chapter
specifically mentioned shall pay annually a license fee of two hundred eighty two dollars
and seventy cents ($282.70) plus an additional sum of money equal to fifty-six dollars
and sixty-five cents ($56.65) per employee for the first twenty-five employees and forty-
eight and forty cents ($48.40) per employee in excess of twenty-five employees. For the
purpose of calculating the total license fee payable under this section, the number of
employees shall be the average number of employees employed or to be employed in the
city as shown by the applicant’s sworn statement required under Section 7.04.300 of this
chapter reduced by one; provided, that, where the business is owned jointly by a husband
and wife or where the husband or wife of the owner of the business is engaged or
employed in the business, such average number of employees shall be reduced by two,
and further reduced by one for each person engaged or employed in the business who is
the child of the husband and wife.

7.04.031	Contractors licensed by state.

Every contractor or other person who, pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section
7000) of Division III of the Business and Professions Code, is licensed by or engages in a
business regulated by the Contractors’ State License Board of the Department of
Professional and Vocational Standards of the state shall, at the time he applies for a
license under this chapter or for a renewal thereof, file or have on file with the tax
collector a signed statement that he is licensed under the provisions of Chapter 9 and
stating that the license is in full force and effect, or, if he is exempt from the provisions of
Chapter 9, he shall furnish proof of the facts which entitle him to such exemption.

7.04.032	Child care homes.

Every person regularly providing care, protection or supervision to more than six
children, in the person’s own home for periods of less than twenty-four hours per day
shall pay an annual license fee of sixteen dollars and seventy cents ($16.70) dollars plus
an additional sum of six dollars and sixty-five cents ($6.65) for each child cared for in the
home.

7.04.040	Motion pictures.

Every person conducting, managing or carrying on the business of exhibiting motion
pictures, either in a building or an open airdrome, shall pay an annual license fee based
on the annual gross receipts of such business as follows: one hundred dollars and thirty
cents ($100.30) for twenty thousand dollars or less of gross receipts, and three dollars for

US WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

6

each additional one thousand dollars or fractional part thereof of gross receipts over
twenty thousand dollars.

7.04.050	Itinerant shows, circuses, carnivals, rodeos and hawkers.

(a)	General. Every person conducting any itinerant show, circus, carnival, rodeo, or in the
business of hawking, shall pay a license fee in advance at the following rates: itinerant
show, ninety-one dollars and ninety-six cents ($91.96) per day; carnival when conducted
by a professional carnival operator, or circus, nine hundred nineteen dollars and seventy
seven cents ($919.77) per day; rodeo, five hundred fifty-one dollars and eighty-seven
cents ($551.87) per day; hawker, ninety-one dollars and ninety-six cents ($91.96) per
day, payable in advance where the article sold is not a patent or other medicine, and when
the article is a patent or other medicine, the license fee shall be one hundred eighty-three
dollars and ninety-two cents ($183.92), payable in advance.

(b)	Reduced Fee for Carnivals. Upon written application, the City Council may reduce
the license fee for a carnival which is conducted in its entirety or in any part of a
professional carnival operator, if it is sponsored by a religious, charitable, fraternal or
educational organization or association, or a student body group for purposes of raising
funds for such organization, association, or group, and if the proceeds received by the
sponsoring organization, association or group are used entirely for the purposes and
objects for which such organization, association or group was formed. The application for
a reduced license fee shall be accompanied by the agreement or contract between the
professional carnival operator and the sponsoring organization, association or group
showing the agreement of the parties thereto regarding division of the proceeds to be
derived from the operation of the carnival. The City Council may consider the agreement
between the parties, respecting the division of such proceeds in determining whether, and
to what extent, the license fee for the carnival may be reduced.

(c)	Waiver of Fee. Upon written application, the City Council may waive the license fee
for a carnival or similar activity or event which is sponsored or conducted by a religious,
charitable, fraternal or educational organization or association, or by a student body
group if the organization, association, or group does not employ the services of a
professional carnival operator to conduct the carnival or similar activity.

7.04.051	Vendors of racing forms.

Every person engaged in the business of vendor of racing forms shall pay a license fee, in
advance, to the City of Richmond at the following rate: Seven hundred thirty-five dollars
and eighty-five cents ($735.85) for ninety days. Every person engaged in the business of
vendor of racing forms shall pay a racing forms application fee of nine dollars and
eighteen cents ($9.18).

7.04.060	Arcade and shooting gallery.

Every person engaged in the business of operating an arcade or shooting gallery shall pay
an annual license fee at the following rate: arcade, two hundred twenty dollars and
seventy-one cents ($220.71) per year; shooting gallery, one hundred forty-six dollars and
sixty-nine cents ($146.69) per year.

7.04.065 Mechanical or electronic amusement device.

US_WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

7

Every person who owns or operates a business containing any mechanical or electronic
amusement device shall pay an annual fee for the permit of sixty-one dollars and sixty-six
cents ($61.66) for each device operated within the business.

7.04.070	Auctioneers and auctions.

For each separate auction to be conducted within the City of Richmond an application fee
of one hundred eighty-three dollars and ninety-two cents ($183.92) shall be paid. Every
person conducting an auction within the City of Richmond shall pay an auctioneer license
fee of ninety-one dollars and ninety-six cents ($91.96) per day, provided that no license
shall be required under the provisions of this section for the sale of merchandise salvaged
from any fire, wreck or other calamity occurring in the City of Richmond, where said
auction is conducted by the person who held the license to conduct the business before
the fire, wreck or other calamity occurred.

7.04.080	Billiard or pool rooms and bowling alleys.

Every person engaged in the business of operating any public billiard or pool room shall
pay an annual license fee of fifty-five dollars and seventeen cents ($55.17) per table.
Every person engaged in the business of operating a bowling alley shall pay an annual
license fee based on the annual gross receipts of such business as follows: one hundred
dollars and thirty cents ($100.30) for twenty thousand dollars or less of gross receipts,
and five dollars ($5.00) for each one thousand dollars or fraction thereof, by which such
gross receipts exceed the sum of twenty thousand dollars.

7.04.090	Mechanical musical instruments.

Every person engaged in the business of maintaining in places of business or elsewhere in
the City of Richmond mechanical musical instruments, which are operated by coins, shall
pay an annual license fee of sixty-six dollars and twenty-two cents ($66.22) for each
such instrument.

7.04.092 Weight scales.

Every person maintaining, operating, offering for operation or letting the use of any coin
operated weight scale within the City of Richmond shall pay an annual license fee of
three dollars and sixty-three cents ($3.63) for each such scale.

7.04.100	Peddlers and solicitors.

Every person engaged in the business of peddler or solicitor shall pay a license fee of one
hundred ten dollars and thirty-three cents ($110.33) semiannually or two hundred twenty
dollars and sixty-six cents ($220.66) annually, provided that no license fee shall be
required for any person peddling, soliciting or selling fruit, vegetables, or other farm
products raised or produced by himself or any manufactured products manufactured by
himself.

7.04.105 Police permits for peddlers and solicitors.

Each person engaged in the business of peddler and solicitor in the City of Richmond
shall pay an application fee of twelve dollars and thirty-two cents ($12.32) upon the filing
of the application. Upon expiration of the application each such person shall pay a
renewal fee of six dollars and sixteen cents ($6.16).

US WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

8

7.04.110	Photographs, enlargements, frames, coupons, and orders for taking
photographs only.

Every person engaged in the business of canvassing for or soliciting orders for the sale of
enlarging of photographs or other pictures, or picture frames to be sold or given away
with enlarged pictures, or selling tickets, coupons, or other devices in return for which
such pictures or frame may be had, shall pay a license fee of eighteen dollars and thirty-
seven cents ($18.37) per day, payable in advance.

Every person engaged in the business of canvassing for or soliciting orders for the taking
of photographs only shall pay a license fee of fifty-five dollars and seventeen cents
($55.17) semiannually.

7.04.120	Taxicabs.

Every person engaged in the business of operating vehicles for hire or taxicabs shall pay
a license fee of ninety-one dollars and ninety-six cents ($91.96) per vehicle per year.

7.04.125 Hazardous waste facilities.

(a)	Imposition. Pursuant to California Health and Safety Code Section 25173.5, there is
hereby imposed a license fee on every off-site, multi-user hazardous waste facility
located within the City of Richmond.

(b)	Amount. The license fee authorized pursuant to this section shall not exceed ten
percent of the hazardous waste facility’s annual gross receipts for the treatment, storage,
or disposal of hazardous waste at the facility.

(c)	Payment. The owner of any hazardous waste facility subject to the license fee
authorized by this section shall make quarterly payments. The payments shall be due and
payable ninety days after the end of each quarter of the fiscal year of the facility.
Payments shall be made to the Tax Collector of the City of Richmond.

(d)	Accounting. The owner of any hazardous waste facility subject to the license fee
authorized by this section shall provide the Tax Collector with a quarterly financial report
which supports the license fee paid. The owner of any hazardous waste facility subject to
the license fee authorized by this section shall also provide the Tax Collector with the
facility’s annual audited financial statement.

7.04.130	Amusements.

(a)	Every person engaged in the business of conducting a boxing or wrestling exhibition,
or a skating rink, or a public dance hall, or a sporting event or commercial show or
production of any other commercial entertainment, where a charge for admission is made,
collected or received, either directly or indirectly, shall pay a license fee which shall be
ascertained by multiplying the number of tickets sold or admissions charged by one
dollar ($1.00).

(b)	Waiver of Fee. Upon written application, the City Council may waive the license fee
for such activities conducted by a religious, charitable, fraternal or educational

US WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

9

organization or association, or community theatre which is a not-for-profit organization
or by a student body group.

7.04.135	Oil drilling and production.

Every person engaged in the business of drilling or exploring for, or in the production of,
oil, gas or hydrocarbon substances from wells shall pay license fees in accordance with
the following schedules:

(1)	Ninety-one dollars and ninety-six cents ($91.96) per day for each day of actual
drilling or other work upon each well until the well is placed in production;

(2)	Seven hundred thirty-five dollars and eighty-five cents ($735.85) for each well during
the first year that it is in production and one hundred forty-seven dollars and thirteen
cents ($147.13) during each year thereafter that the well is in production;

(3)	In addition to the fee specified in subsection (2), the sum of seventeen cents ($0.17)
per barrel of oil produced from each well, such sum to be computed and paid monthly
within fifteen days after the close of each calendar month.

7.04.136	Bicycles and bicycle establishments.

Every person purchasing a bicycle shall pay a fee of three dollars and sixty-eight cents
($3.68) for the issuance of an initial license; provided that the owner of any new bicycle
shall not have to pay the initial license fee if the bicycle is licensed within thirty days of
the date of the initial purchase of said bicycle. Upon renewal of the license, the licensee
shall pay a fee of one dollar and twenty-one cents ($1.21) and shall receive a
supplemental sticker.

Any bicycle which has not been licensed in violation of the provisions of 7.12.050 shall
be subject to a fine of three dollars and sixty-eight cents ($3.68) which will be in addition
to the licensing fee.

Upon loss of the license tab, every person shall pay a fee of one dollar and eighty-one
cents ($1.81).

7.04.140	No license for charitable institutions, etc.

The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed or construed to require the payment of
a license to conduct, manage or carry on any business, occupation or activity or require
the payment of any license from any institution or organization which is conducted,
managed or carried on wholly for the benefit of charitable purposes or religious purposes
or from which profit is not derived either directly or indirectly by any person.

No license fee shall be required for the conducting of any entertainment, dance, concert,
exhibit, lecture or other activity by any religious, charitable, fraternal, educational,
student body, military, state, county or municipal organization or association, whenever
the receipts of any such entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition, lecture or other activity
are to be appropriated for the purposes and objects for which said association or

10

organization was formed and from which profit is not derived either directly or indirectly
by any person.

This exemption shall not apply to any institution or organization which prohibits
membership therein on grounds of race, color, or national origin.

7.04.150	Veterans exemption.

The tax collector, without payment to the City of any consideration, shall issue to any
war veteran as defined in Section 7.04.020 hereof any license provided for in this chapter
subject to the following conditions:

(1)	The person seeking such gratuitous license must make application to the tax collector
giving proof of his identity, residence, service in the Armed Forces of the United States
during the time of war or in a campaign, honorable discharge or release from such service
and interest in the business subject to such license fee;

(2)	That such person, if over the age of twenty-one years, is a registered voter in the city
of Richmond, or, if under the age of twenty-one years, is a bona fide resident of the city
of Richmond;

(3)	That the amount of the exemption allowed any one person within any period of
twelve consecutive months shall not exceed twenty-five dollars, and if such person has
only a partial interest or ownership in a business subject to such license fee, then the
exemption shall not exceed that portion of the license fee which is proportionate to his
interest;

(4)	That no more than three annual exemptions of business license fees, whether or not
the same are in consecutive years, shall be allowed to any one person; provided that this
section shall not apply to those applicants who fall within the provisions of Section 16001
of the Business and Professions Code of the state of California.

7.04.152 Gratuitous licenses to indigents, etc.

The tax collector, without payment to the city of any consideration, shall issue to any
disabled war veteran or to any indigent person or to any person who by reason of the
infirmities of age, loss of limb or other disabling cause is unable to obtain a livelihood by
manual labor, or to minors under the age of eighteen years, any license provided for in
this chapter, provided that such applicant is a voter of the city if over the age of twenty-
one years, or, if under the age of twenty-one years, a resident of the city, and further
provided that such applicant does not fall within the provisions of Section 16001 of the
Business and Professions Code of the state of California. Application shall be made to the
tax collector for the gratuitous permit stating the facts relied upon by the applicant. If
requested by the tax collector, written proof of any such facts shall be submitted by the
applicant, including a medical doctor’s certificate of disability, inability to perform
manual labor, infirmity resulting from age, loss of limb or other cause of disability. This
section does not apply to any applicant who employs one or more persons in the business
for which the gratuitous license is sought.

7.04.160	Exemptions.

US_WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

11

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following individuals, businesses and
organizations:

(1)	Minors under the age of eighteen (18) years;

(2)	Businesses owned and conducted by minors under the age of eighteen (18) years
when legal documentation is provided to support that:

(A)	All persons engaged in the operation of the business are under the age of eighteen
years, and

(B)	All persons engaged in the operation of the business have a bona fide ownership
interest in the business;

(3)	Any public utility paying franchise payments to the City;

(4)	Any person paying sums under a contract with the City for the privilege of collecting
solid wastes; or

(5)	Any person when the sole income generated within the City by the person does not
exceed the sum of six hundred dollars for the fiscal year. For the purpose of this section,
evidence that the income of the person does not exceed the sum of six hundred dollars for
the fiscal year shall be either the previous year’s tax return for the person or, if the person
is new to the City of Richmond, a signed declaration stating that the person does not
anticipate that the income generated within the city will exceed six hundred dollars for
the fiscal year.

(6)	Any person when the sole income generated within the City of Richmond by the
person is the income from a single contract with the City of Richmond when the amount
of said contract does not exceed (and never exceeds) the sum of five thousand dollars in
any single fiscal year.

7.04.161	Intercity transportation business.

Commencing on July 1, 1971, and continuing during the effectiveness of the Highway
Carriers’ Uniform License Tax provided for in Chapter 3 (Section 4303 et seq) of
Division 2 of the California Public Utilities Code, no business license fees shall be
required for the following types of enterprises covered by said Chapter 3: Intercity
transportation business of any express corporation, freight forwarder, motor
transportation broker, or person, owning or operating motor vehicles in the transportation
of property for hire upon the public highways, under the jurisdiction of the Public
Utilities Commission.

7.04.170	Licenses, contents of.

All licenses shall be prepared and issued by the tax collector upon the payment of the
sum herein required to be paid therefore. Each license so issued shall state upon the face
thereof the following:

US_WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

12

(1)	The name of the person to whom it is issued.

(2)	The kind of business license.

(3)	The location of such business.

(4)	The date of expiration of such license.

7.04.180	Tax collector not required to send bill.

The tax collector is not required to send a notice or bill to any person subject to the
provisions of this chapter, and failure to send such notice or bill shall not affect the
validity of and license fee due hereunder.

7.04.190	Posting and keeping licenses.

All licenses must be kept and posted in the following manner:

(1)	Any licensee engaged in business at a fixed place of business in the city shall keep the
license posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises where such business is carried
on.

(2)	Any licensee engaged in business but not operating at a fixed place of business in the
city shall keep the license upon his person at all times while engaged in such business.

7.04.200	Duplicate licenses.

A duplicate license may be issued by the tax collector to replace any license previously
issued hereunder, which has been lost or destroyed, upon licensee’s filing an affidavit
attesting to such fact, and at the time of filing such affidavit, paying to the tax collector a
duplicate license fee of forty-five dollars and fifteen cents ($45.15).

7.04.210	No license transferable—Exception—Amended license for changed
location.

No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable, provided that a license to
a person engaged in the business of peddler or solicitor issued pursuant to Section

7.04.100	of this chapter, the fee of which was paid by the employee of such licensee, may
be transferred to another employee of the person having paid said fee in the event of
termination of the employment of the original licensee upon application therefore and
payment of a transfer fee of thirty six dollar and seventy-five cents ($36.75) and provided
further that when a license pursuant to any provision of this chapter is issued authorizing
a person to carry on a business at a particular place, such licensee may, upon application
therefore and paying a fee of thirty six dollar and seventy-five cents ($36.75) have the
license amended to authorize the carrying on of such business at some other location
within the city of Richmond to which the business is or is to be moved.

7.04.220	Separate license for each place of business or branch.

A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or location of the
business engaged in and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the
business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated in such license;
provided that warehouses and distributing plants used in connection with and incidental

13

to businesses licensed under this chapter shall not be deemed to be separate places of
business or branch establishments.

7.04.230	Two or more businesses at same location.

Whenever any person is engaged in two or more businesses at the same location and
under the same management, such person shall not be required to obtain a license for the
carrying on of each of such businesses, but shall be issued a joint license, and the sum of
the average number of employees of all of such businesses so carried on by him shall be
used as the basis for computing the amount of license fee to be paid for the carrying on of
all such businesses; provided that when two or more businesses are carried on at the same
location under different managements, the person managing each business shall obtain a
separate license for his respective business at such location; and provided, further, that if
the businesses would be taxed under different sections of this chapter, the license fee
shall be the sum of the individual license fees that would be applicable if the businesses
were separate.

7.04.240	License fees paid in advance.

Except for monthly license fees payable on or before the tenth day of the succeeding
month, all license fees shall be paid in advance. For annual business licenses, license fees
are due and payable on or before March 15 of the year for which the license is issued.

For all other business licenses, license fees are due and payable on or before the date of
issuance.

7.04.250	Unexpired license heretofore issued.

Where a license for any business has been issued by the city of Richmond and fee paid
therefore under the provisions of any ordinance heretofore enacted, and term of such
license has not expired, then the license fee prescribed for the business by this chapter
shall not be payable until the expiration of the term of such unexpired license.

7.04.260	Quarterly licenses.

Any business not otherwise provided for in this Article VII and without a place of
business in the city to engage in business activities, may obtain a quarterly (91 days)
license for eighty-two dollars and seventy-eight cents ($82.78) as the basic license fee
plus an additional sum based upon the rate of twenty-five percent of the per-employee
fees specified in Section 7.04.030.

7.04.270 Refunds due to action of public agency.

The tax collector shall refund a portion of license fees paid by any licensee whose
business is terminated by the action of any public agency authorized by law to exercise
its right of eminent domain, and who does not relocate within the city of Richmond. Such
licensee must first file with the tax collector a written request for such refund. The
amount to be refunded in any such case shall be determined by determining the number
of days in the license period for which the license fee was paid, treating as earned the
number of days of such period which have elapsed up to and including the date of
cancellation of such license, and treating as unearned the number of days of such period
following said date. The amount to be refunded shall be in proportion to the total license
fee paid as the unearned number of days bears to the total of days in such license period.

US_WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

14

7.04.280 No license issued to applicant in arrears.

No license for any ensuing, current or unexpired license period shall knowingly be issued
to any person who at the time of making application there for is indebted to the city for
any unpaid license fee.

7.04.290 Delinquency.

Any person who fails to file any required statement and pay the amount of the license fee
prescribed in this chapter within thirty (30) days after it becomes due shall be deemed
delinquent and shall be assessed the following penalty:

(1)	Ten percent of the license fee if the payment is made within one to thirty days after it
became delinquent;

(2)	Twenty-five percent of the license fee if the payment is made within thirty-one to
sixty days after it became delinquent; and

(3)	Fifty percent of the license fee if the payment is made more than sixty days after it
became delinquent. Such penalty shall become part of the license fee then required to be
paid under this chapter, and if such delinquency continues thereafter, such person shall be
subject to all further penal provisions and remedies contained in this chapter.

7.04.300 Sworn statements.

At the time of applying for a license under this chapter, if applicant has been engaged in a
business in the city for one year, he shall file a sworn statement verifying the accuracy of
the calculations used in determining the license fee payable hereunder.

7.04.310 Statements not conclusive.

No such statement shall be conclusive as to the matters set forth therein, nor shall the
filing of the same preclude the city from collecting by appropriate action such sum as is
actually due and payable under this chapter. Such statement and each of the several items
therein contained shall be subject to audit and verification by the tax collector, who is
authorized to examine, audit, and inspect such books and records of any licensee or
applicant for license as may be necessary in his judgment to verify or ascertain the
amount of license fee due.

All licensees, applicants for licenses, and persons engaged in business in the city are
required to permit an examination of such books and records for the purposes aforesaid.
The information or data obtained from such examination or audit, or from any statement
required under this chapter shall be used for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter and for no other purpose.

7.04.320 Rules and regulations for enforcement.

The tax collector is authorized to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to
aid or assist in enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.

7.04.330 Enforcement.

15

It shall be the duty of the tax collector to enforce each and all of the provisions of this
chapter, and the chief of Police shall render such assistance as may from time to time be
required by the Tax Collector.

The Tax Collector in the exercise of his duties and acting through his deputies or any
duly authorized City employee shall investigate all businesses hereby licensed to
ascertain whether or not the provisions of this chapter are being complied with.

The Tax Collector and his deputies and any police officer shall have the authority to enter
free of charge at any reasonable time any place of business required to have a license
hereunder, and to demand exhibition of such license. Any person having any such license
in his possession or under his control, who fails to exhibit the same on demand, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable accordingly.

7.04.340 Additional power of tax collector.

In addition to all other powers conferred upon him, the Tax Collector shall have the
power, for good cause shown, to extend the time for filing any required sworn statement
for a period not exceeding thirty days, and in such case to waive any penalty that would
otherwise have accrued; and shall have the further power, with the consent of the
Council, to compromise any claim as to amount of license fee due.

7.04.350 Remedies cumulative.

The conviction and punishment of any person for engaging in any business without
obtaining a license so to do shall not relieve such person from paying the license fee due
and unpaid at the time of such conviction, nor shall the payment of any license fee
prevent a criminal prosecution for the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
All remedies prescribed herein shall be cumulative and the use of one or more remedies
by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.

7.04.360 No under or over payment to be received.

No person charged with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall
knowingly accept or receive any sum for any license which is less than or greater than the
amount actually required to be paid under the provisions of this chapter.

7.04.370 Unlawful business.

No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be construed as authorizing
the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business.

7.04.380 Unlawful burden.

Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring a license or the payment of a license fee,
or the doing of any act which would constitute an unlawful burden upon or an unlawful
interference with interstate or foreign commerce, or which would be in violation of the
Constitution or laws of the United States of America or the Constitution or laws of the
State of California.

7.04.385 Business License Fee Not A Property Tax.

US_WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

16

The payment of any amount under this chapter measure by the value of any tangible or
other property is not a tax on such property, but is a tax on the business undertaken by the
taxpayer measured by the value of such property actually used in the business.

7.04.390 Regulatory provisions of other chapters remain.

Any person required to pay a license fee for any business under this chapter shall be
relieved from the payment of any license fee for the privilege of doing such business
which has been required under any other law of the City of Richmond, but shall remain
subject to the regulatory provisions of such other law.

7.04.400 Suit for recovery of unpaid sums.

Any sum required to be paid hereunder shall be deemed a debt to the City and any person
who engages in any business required to be licensed hereunder without obtaining a
license so to do shall be liable to an action by and in the name of the City in any court of
competent jurisdiction for recovery of any such sum.

7.04.410 Failure to file statement or corrected statement.

If any person fails to file any required statement within the time prescribed hereby, or if
after demand therefore made by the Tax Collector he fails to file a corrected statement,
the Tax Collector may determine the amount of license fee due from such person by
means of such information as he may be able to obtain.

In case such a determination is made the Tax Collector shall give a notice of the amount
so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States Post Office at
Richmond, California, postage prepaid, addressed to the person so assessed at his last
known address. Such person may, within ten days after the mailing or serving of such
notice, make application in writing to the Tax Collector for a hearing on the amount of
the license fee. If such application is not made within the time prescribed the assessment
shall become final If such application is made within the time prescribed, the Tax
Collector must cause the matter to be set for hearing within fifteen days before the City
Council. The Council shall consider all evidence produced, and written notice of its
findings thereon, which findings shall be final, shall be served upon the applicant in the
manner prescribed above for service of notice of assessment.

(Source: Ordinance No. 8-03 N.S.)

7.04.420 Review By City Audit Committee.

The Audit Committee appointed by the City Council shall annually review the collection
of the taxes levied under this chapter and shall issue a report to the City Council, no later
than 120 days after the close of each Fiscal Year, concerning the amount collected during
such fiscal year and the impact on the City's ability to provide needed services, facilities
and community improvements. Such report may include recommendations for the
allocation of funds from future collections, subject to the approval of the City Council.

Section 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase or this Ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid, such a decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance. The People hereby declares that they would have passed each section.

US WEST:260054993.3
40444-31 JK1/JK1

17

subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance
irrespective of the unconstitutionality or invalidity of any section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase.

Section 3. Effective Date. If approved by a majority of the voters of City of
Richmond at the November 7, 2006 election, as certified by the City Council, this
Ordinance shall become effective on January 1, 2007.

18