IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF ALTURAS MEASURE J

Measure J would authorize the City to increase the
supplemental charge on minimum monthly water rates
from the current rate of $0.50 per meter up to $1.50 per
meter to fund mosquito abatement in the City of Alturas
for a five-year period commencing November 15, 2006
and ending November 15, 2011 unless further extended
by a vote of the electorate in the City of Alturas.

At an election held on April 8, 1980, a ballot measure
was passed by the electorate of the City of Alturas that
authorized the City to add a supplemental charge of $0.50
to the minimum monthly water rate per meter to fund
mosquito abatement in the City of Alturas. On a later date
the 50-cent addition to the minimum water rate and the
mosquito abatement program were both discontinued.

On March 9, 2004, the City Council re-implemented the
50-cent supplemental charge to minimum monthly water
rates as authorized in 1980 and again commenced a
mosquito abatement program. The City has determined
that the 50-cent supplemental charge authorized in 1980
is not sufficient to cover the current and future costs of
the City’s mosquito abatement program.

Passage of Measure J will authorize funding to fully cover
the expected costs of mosquito abatement in the City
through November 15, 2011 without the expenditure of
City general funds.

John Lawson
Alturas City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J

Vector control, is essential disease prevention, a
fundamental component of any public health program.
Measure “J”, if passed by 66 2/3 % in Alturas, will increase
the monthly water bill by one dollar a month for a total
increase of twelve dollars per meter per year. The funding
will keep the mosquito control program solvent. Without
this increase, the mosquito control program will not likely
be able to continue all next summer. This is because
grant funding will run out and the current water meter
assessment does not cover the cost of the insecticide,
much less the labor, equipment and maintenance needed
to run an effective program. Individuals attempting to
control mosquitoes on their property will spend more
than twelve dollars a summer. Since neighbors won’t be
treating at the same time (if at all) there is no coordinated
control and the property will be reinvaded by adult
female blood feeding mosquitoes the very next day. The
City has the species of mosquitoes that carry Malaria,
Encephalitis, and now West Nile Virus. In addition, the
city has the irrigated pasture mosquito a voracious blood
feeder that simply lowers the quality of life for humans
and animals in this area if not controlled. The mosquito
monitoring program shows the control activities the City
currently runs is effective in reducing the population of
adult mosquitoes. This is protecting the people from
debilitating mosquito vectored diseases that can and
do cause fatalities every year. It also makes Alturas a
more livable community for all of us. In the last election
a majority of the voters (60%) voted for this increase,
but since it is a tax, a 66 2/3% of the vote is needed to
pass this measure. I urge all Alturas voters to join us, the
majority, and please pass this measure!

Sincerely,

Joseph A Moreo

Founding member of the Citizens for Vector Control

25 Modoc/ 3