Measure E: Parcel Tax, Morgan Hill Unified School Tax

To advance educational achievement, enhance and maintain essential educational programs, prevent elimination of teacher positions, provide flexibility to expand programs in music and art, provide programs for students with difficulties in basics like reading and math, and upgrade technology in classrooms and libraries, shall Morgan Hill Unified School District collect a $96 yearly education tax for five years, providing an exemption for senior citizens, no money for administration, with citizen oversight and all money benefiting Morgan Hill schools?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:
A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a special tax of $96 per year for five years, beginning July 1, 2006, on parcels in the Morgan Hill Unified School District.

A NO vote on this measure means:
A "no" vote is a vote not to approve the special tax.

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
California law permits a school district to levy a special tax on parcels of land within the district if the tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting in an election.
The Board of Education of the Morgan Hill Unified School District proposes a special tax in the amount of $96 per year per taxable parcel for a period of five years, beginning July 1, 2006 and ending June 30, 2111.
The purpose of the special tax is to advance educational achievement and to enhance and maintain educational programs by: (1) providing flexibility to expand programs in music, art, and sports; (2) improving programs for students with difficulties in basics like reading and math; (3) preventing the elimination of teaching positions; (4) supporting the ability of the District to train and to provide staff support to all teachers; (5) upgrading technology systems for all students that will expand web-based learning, allow teachers to have computers in the classrooms and libraries, allow parents to check on their child's progress, and provide ongoing technical support and maintenance; and (6) enhancing classes in agriculture.
The proceeds of the special tax will be applied only to the specific purposes listed above and will be deposited into a special account. The Board of Education will appoint an independent community oversight committee to monitor the expenditures of these funds, to oversee expenditures funded by this measure, and to ensure that the funds are used only for the purposes approved by the voters. The citizens' committee shall report to the community each year on how the funds have been spent. The District will make available an optional exemption from the special tax, upon annual application, for each individual in the school district who is 65 years of age or older and owns and occupies as a principal residence a parcel in the school district.
A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a special tax of $96 per year for five years, beginning July 1, 2006, on parcels in the Morgan Hill Unified School District.
A "no" vote is a vote not to approve the special tax.
Ann Miller Ravel County Counsel
By: /s/ Kathryn Zoglin
Deputy County Counsel

Argument For Measure E
Parents, teachers, business and community leaders throughout the Morgan Hill Unified School District urge a YES vote on Measure E to improve local schools and to enhance and maintain essential educational programs.
Every penny of Measure E will benefit local children and no money will be spent on administrator salaries. To ensure fiscal accountability, a Citizens Oversight Committee will be appointed to ensure all Measure E funds are spent properly. Seniors 65 years and older may file for an exemption from Measure E.
The District has been forced to cut educational programs and services to kids by more than $8 million over the past several years. YES on Measure E will not only prevent the elimination of teaching positions, but will also restore and enhance critical educational programs while advancing student achievement.
Measure E will only be in effect for 5 years and cannot be increased or extended without a 2/3 vote of Morgan Hill Unified School District residents.
Measure E will:
Prevent the elimination of teaching positions
Improve programs for students with difficulties in basics like reading and math
Restore funding for music and art
Enhance programs for students who excel including those who are gifted and talented
Provide computers in classrooms and libraries, update existing technology and fund ongoing technical support and maintenance
Quality schools are the backbone of our community. The future of our children and the resale value of homes are directly affected by the quality of local schools.
Please join citizens throughout Morgan Hill Unified School District in voting YES on Measure E. The choice is simple, vote YES for kids.
/s/ Anna V. Friebel
Retired Teacher
/s/ Mike Rubino
Retired Teacher
/s/ Mike Tatarakis
President, Live Oak Band Boosters
/s/ Greg Sellers
Parent / Councilmember Morgan Hill
/s/ Glen R. Webb
Teacher

(No argument against Measure E was submitted.)



Full Text of Measure E
Findings and Determinations: In evaluating the need for supplemental education funding, the Morgan Hill Unified School District has found and determined the following educational priorities:
1. Students will benefit if teachers have computers in their classrooms and libraries;
2. The District must restore music and art programs because they are important to a child's well-rounded education;
3. The District must insure that there are no reductions in the remedial courses offered for those students having difficulty with some of the basics, like reading, writing and math;
4. The District must maintain the number of teachers who are trained to support children with special needs; and
5. The District must maintain teacher training and support programs.
Ballot Measure:
"To advance educational achievement, enhance and maintain essential educational programs, prevent elimination of teacher positions, provide flexibility to expand programs in music and art, provide programs for students with difficulties in basics like reading and math, and upgrade technology in classrooms and libraries, shall Morgan Hill Unified School District collect a $96 yearly education tax for five years, providing an exemption for senior citizens, no money for administration, with citizen oversight and all money benefiting Morgan Hill schools by:
(a) providing flexibility to expand programs in music, art and sports
(b) improving programs for students with difficulties in basics like reading and math
(c) preventing the elimination of teaching positions;
(d) supporting the ability of the District to train and provide staff support to all teachers;
(e) upgrading technology systems for all students which will expand web-based learning, allow teachers to have computers in the classrooms and libraries, allow parents to check on their child's progress and provide ongoing technical support and maintenance;
(f) enhancing classes in agriculture
An exemption shall be granted for any parcel owned and occupied as a principal residence by one or more persons 65 years of age, upon completion of an annual application for exemption.
Independent Oversight and Accountability: To insure additional accountability, an independent volunteer community oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Education to oversee all expenditures funded by the measure to ensure that said funds are spent wisely and used only for purposes approved by the voters. This volunteer citizens' committee shall monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and shall report on an annual basis to the community on how these funds have been spent.
A parcel is defined as a unit of land in the District which now receives a separate tax bill from the Santa Clara County Assessor's Office. All property which would otherwise be exempt from property taxes also will be exempt from the special tax."