IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K
Prepared by San Joaquin County Counsel

‘Transportation Sales Tax Renewal'

Under the Local Transportation Authority and
Improvement Act (California, Public Utilities Code Section
180000, et seq.), a retail transactions and use tax, applicable
in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of San
Joaquin County, may be imposed if the county transportation
authority has adopted the tax ordinance by a two-thirds vote,
and the imposition of. the tax is subsequently approved by
two-thirds of those electors voting on the measure at an
election. According to the Act, the revenues from the tax
“may be. allocated by the transportation authority for the
construction and improvement of state highways, the
construction, maintenance, improvement, and operation of
local streets, roads and highways, arid the construction,
improvement, and operation of public transit systems.”

In November 1990, voters in San Joaquin County
approved Measure K, which imposed a countywide sales
tax of one-half of one percent (1/2%) for transportation
improvement projects and. programs in San Joaquin County
through March 31, 2011. On June 29, 2006, the San Joaquin
Council of Governments Board of Directors, acting as the San
Joaquin County Transportation Authority, adopted Ordinance
No. 06-01, which would continue the existing countywide
sales tax of one-half of one percent (1/2%) for an additional
period not to exceed thirty (30) years! -

The revenues received by the San Joaquin County
Transportation Authority will be expended for the
transportation improvement projects and programs set forth in
the San Joaquin County Transportation Authority’s adopted
plan (which is included in. the voter information handbook).
The tax revenues will be deposited in special funds and used
exclusively for transportation projects and programs, including
administrative expenses. If the measure passes, the San
Joaquin County Transportation Authority will have the
authority to issue bonds, payable from the proceeds of the
.tax.

The California Constitution requires that a public entity
establish an appropriations limit (the maximum amount a
public entity may expend in any given fiscal year) upon
approval of the voters. This measure seeks voter approval to
establish an appropriations limit in the annual amount of five
hundred million dollars and no cents ($500,000,000.00). In
order to expend the tax revenues, an appropriations limit must
be established.

Two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on the measure must
approve the measure in order for it to pass.

A “YES” vote is to approve Ordinance No.' 06-01,
including the	retail transactions	and	use	tax	and	the

appropriations limit.

A “NO" vote is to disapprove Ordinance No. 06-01,
inpluding' the	retail transactions	and	use	tax	and	the

appropriations limit.

If the measure passes, Ordinance No. 06-01, continuing
the existing retail transactions and use tax and establishing
the appropriations limit, will become effective on April 1,2011.

I

)



ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Vote YES on Measure K to relieve congestion, improve traffic
safety and fix local roads -- without raising taxes!

Measure K renews the transportation improvement program
that has helped finance every major highway, transit
Improvement and street repair in San Joaquin County
since 1990.

Vote YES to widen and improve San Joaquin County’s,
major highways --1-5,1-205, and Highways 99,120 and 12.

Vote YES to Improve safety at high accident locations
and on- routes to schools and to help improve police, fire
and ambulance response to emergencies.

Vote YES to fix potholes, resurface streets and
synchronize traffic signals throughout San Joaquin
County..

Vote YES to improve transit services for seniors and
persons with disabilities and to expand Altamont Commuter
Express service.	.

Environmentalists support Measure K because it will
improve air quality by improving traffic flows. .

Taxpayers support Measure K because It safeguards your
tax dollars:	■	'	•

—	Accountability. An independent citizen oversight
committee will hold elected officials dccbuntable and wili
review financial audits annually to ensure voter mandates
are met.

—	Reliability. Government agencies are prohibited from
using Measure K dollars for anything except local
congestion relief and transportation improvements.

—	Efficiency. The revenue will go to roads, not overhead.
99% of your tax dollars will go directly to projects.

And Measure K guarantees transportation dollars raised in
San Joaquin County stay in San Joaquin County.

Without Measure. K, congestion relief could be delayed
for decades. We can’t count on state and federal highway
funds any longer. Many projects won’t be built and many
improvements can’t be delivered without Measure K.

The California State Automobile Association (AAA), the
League of Women Voters of San Joaquin County, San
Joaquin County business leaders, the Sierra Club and your
neighbors agree: Vote YES on Measure K.

See Measure K improvements in your community. Go to
www.RenewMeasureK.com. Vote YES on Measure K

Submitted by:

is/ Paula F. Downey, President, California State Automobile
Association (AAA)

/si W. Gary Giilis, Retired Fire Chief
/s/ Colleen Foster, President, League of Women Voters
of San Joaquin Countyi
is/ Ort J. Lofthus, Chair, Widen 205 Now
/s/ Dr. Raul Rodriguez, President,

San Joaquin Delta College

REBUTTAL TQ ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

The official Technical Report for the renewal of Measure K
was prepared by Economic and Planning Systems, and Fehr
and Pears Associates Inc.

The fees in this report that were justified to be charged for all
future development (consistent with AB1600 and current law)
are:

$4,770 per single family unit

$2,928 per multi-family unit	,

$ 8.83 per commercial square foot
$ 4.05 per industrial square foot'

These fees would ensufe that existing service levels could be
maintained for new development. New development would
merely pav its fair share - no.more, no less.

Instead, the Measure K renewal proposes a. $2,500 fee to.
developers per single family unit- This would unjustly require
the taxpayers to subsidize developers by $2.270 for every
new home built.

Unbelievable!

San Joaquin C.O.G,, a 26 employee agency with an annual
operating budget of 4.3 million spent $86.000 for travel and
conferences in 2002.	1

That same year, the Sacramento C.O.G., which employees
50 people and has a 9 million dollars operating budget, spent
6nly $70.000 for travel and conferences.

Stanislaus County’s C.O.G, has 15 employees and'spent only
$22.000 for travel and conferences during that same period.

Do we really want this to continue for 30 years?

These are not monopoly dollars that C.O.G. is spending.
These are hard earned taxpayer’s dollars!.

Vote No on Measure K!

Submitted by:

is/ Dario L. Marenco, County Supervisor, District 2

/s/ Steven Gutierrez, County Supervisor, District 1

/s/ Ann C. Cerney, Attorney

is/ Comeilus E. Taylor, Minister

Isl E. Lela Nelson, Real Estate Broker

39-536

SJ 001-047

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

In 1990, when Measure K was placed on the ballot, one of the
key features presented to the voters, was that a regional
transportation impact fee would be placed on all future
developments. It was an integral part of that Measure in ads
seeking voter approval.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Measure K opponents don’t offer a single reasonable
alternative to relieve future traffic congestion. The1 renewal, of
Measure K builds on 15 years of success in helping to make
'San Joaquin County the great place to live that it is today -
without increasing taxes.

. This was not an option!

All of a sudden, hypocritically, fifteen years late, C.O.G. is just
now implementing this feature', mandated by Measure K in
1990, with a low minimum fee of $2,500 for every new home
built.

That means that developers have pocketed and taxpayers
have Unnecessarily paid, at least 200 million dollars for
developments over the last .15 years.. If Measure K passes
now, the taxpayers in effect, not only have but will continue to
subsidize growth for developers.

The taxpayers already pay .adequate taxes for roads with gas
; taxes exceeding 40 cents per gallon without this supplemental
tax.

On April 27, 1994. C.O.G. noted that 1-205 was designed for
53,000 vehicles and had exceeded that number for. daily use
and should now be widened to at least 6 lanes.	.•

It was not!

Now, 120,000 vehicles travel 1-205 daily. It is now being
widened to 6 lanes just to pass this Measure. 6 lanes today is
12 years tpo late and still wholly inadequate considering the
present traffic.

C.O.G. is also lending the ,State, the State’s share of the
/amount needed.' That will cost our taxpayers almost 12
million dollars in interest earning alone. C.O.G. will also bear
all overrun costs.

There are many, many other arguments against Measure K.

Measure K. as now written, is again simply an outrageous rip-
off of the taxpayers.

Vote No on Measure K!

Submitted by:

The California State Automobile Association (AAA) hais
monitored the plan to renew Measure K. “Any delay in
renewal of Measure K will stall critical highway improvements
for years and will only increase cost,” says Paula Downey of
the auto club. ‘This is a balanced plan that will relieve future
congestion, fix potholes and synchronize traffic signals on
major roads.”

“Existing Measure K has kept its promises and delivered
highway projects we all take for granted,” says Ort Lofthus,
Chair of Widen 205 Now, “Widening of 1-205 was made
possible, years ahead of schedule, only because of Measure
K.”	.	1

Environmental organizations like the Sierra piub support
Measure K because it will improve air quality and improve
public transit.

Law enforcement and firefighters support Measure K because
it will make our roads safer and improve response time to
'emergencies,

Measure K will widen and improye 1-5,1-205,; and Highways
99, 120 and 12. And it will provide the' primary source of 1^
funding to repair and maintain local roads.	i_

Somebody can always make up reasons, why we shouldn't do
something. Measure K is the only solution to a serious
problem and deserves our support.

Vote Yes on Measure K.
Submitted by:

Isl Mark W. Herder, Former Police Chief
/s/ Gloria C. Npmura, Retired Teacher/Fornier City
Couneilmember
Is/ Bob Wheeler, Plant Manager, General Mills
/s/ Kathleen Lagorio Janssen, Farmer/Businesswoman
Is/ Floyd H. Weaver, Board Member,

San Joaquin Transit District

/s/ Dario L. Marenco, County Supervisor, District 2

Isl Steve Gutierrez, County Supervisor, District 1.

Is/ Ann C. Cerney, Attorney

Is/. Rev. Corneilus E. Taylor, Minister

Isl E. Lela Nelson, Real Estate Broker






<summary>


MEASURE K

MEASURE K RENEWAL - SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY

LOCAL TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN:

traffic Relief, Safety, Transit, arid Road Maintenance Program
Ordinance #06-01

The San Joaquin County Transportation Authority does ordain
as follows:

SECTION 1. TITLE.

1.01.	This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited
as the MEASURE K RENEWAL - SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN: Traffic
Relief, Safety, Transit, and Road Maintenance Program
Ordinance 06-01 (“Ordinance”) which shall establish and
implement a retail transactions and use tax.

SECTION 2. TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE
"PLAN PURPOSES.

2.01:	This	Ordinance	provides	for the implementation of

the San Joaquin. County Transportation Expenditure Plan
(‘Transportation Expenditure Plan"), as approved and
adopted by the San Joaquin County Transportation Authority
(“Authority"), which will resuit in countywide transportation
facility and service. improvements including highway and
arterial street widening, railroad crossing safety projects,
public transit improvements, rail passenger improvements,
and pedestrian, • bicyclist, and driver safety improvements.
These needed improvements shall be funded by the’ retail
transactions and use tax. provided for in Section 22 of this
Ordinance. The revenues shall be deposited in a special fund
and used solely for transportation projects and programs
described in the Transportation Expenditure Plan which is
considered a part of this Ordinance and hereby incorporated
by reference as if fully set forth herein.

2.02.	The revenues received by the Authority from this
Ordinance, after deduction of required Board of Equalization
costs for performing the functions specified in section 180204
of the Public Utilities Code, and after deduction for the
administration of the Transportation Expenditure Plan
pursuant to the provisions of the Public Utilities Code
commencing with section 180200, in an amount not to exceed
one percent (1%), and after deduction of!,a one-time equity
adjustment to the City of Ripon for Route 99/Jack Tone
Road/UPRR Interchange Project, shall be used for
transportation projects and programs countywide as set forth
in the Transportation Expenditure Plan and in a manner
consistent with the Transportation • Expenditure Plan
developed by the Authority.

SECTION 3. REQUEST FOR ELECTION.

3.01.	The Authority hereby requests the San Joaquin
County Board of Supervisors place this Ordinance before the
voters for approval on the November 7, 2006 ballot.

3.02.	The proposition to be placed on the ballot shall
contain a summary of the projects and programs and shall

, read substantially as follows:

Shall the San Joaquin County Transportation Authority be L
authorized to relieve traffic congestion, match state/federal f '
funds by:	\	'	/

-	widening/lmproving Routes 1-5,1-205,99,12, and 120;

-	expanding AGE commuter rail and seniors/disabled • ■

transit services;	■

-	fixing potholes/resurfacing local roads;

-	reducing high accident locations countywide;

-	requiring citizens’oversight committee and annual	■

audits to ensure all voter mandates are met;

by authorizing continuation of the existing half-cent sales tax
for no longer than 30 years?

SECTION 4. CONTINUATION OF TRANSACTIONS

ANDUSETAX.	|

4.01.	If subsequently approved by two-thirds of the
electors voting on this Ordinance, the Authority hereby adopts
the continuation of a one half of one percent retail
transactions and use tax for a thirty year period commencing
on April 1, 2011 pursuant to Division 19 of the Public Utilities
Code (commencing with section. 180000) and the provisions
of this Ordinance.

.. SECTION S. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT

PROGRAM PROCEDURES:	!

5.01.	: It is the intent of the Legislature and the Authority
that revenues provided from this Ordinance be used to
supplement existing revenues being used for transportation
improvements and programs. To be eligible to receive Local v )
Street Repairs and. Roadway Safety Funds, as identified in

the Transportation Expenditure Plan, each local	jurisdiction	i

must meet the requirements for such funding specified in the |
Transportation Expenditure Plan. and as specified, in this |
Section of this Ordinance.	I

- ,5.02. Pursuant to the intent of Public Utilities Code , j
, section 180001, a jurisdiction cannotredirect monies currently	J

being used for transportation purposes to other uses, and .	|

then replace the redirected funds with local street	!

maintenance and, improvement dollars from the retail
transaction and use tax. To meet the requirements of state
; (aw, in order to' receive Local Street Repairs and Roadway
Safety Funds a jurisdiction must demonstrate maintenance of
a minimum level of local street and road expenditures
(“Maintenance of Effort”) in conformance with one of the
requirements below.

5.02.01; Annual expenditures of a Ipcal jurisdiction’s
general funds for transportation purposes shall be an amount
not less than the jurisdiction’s three-year average of its annual
expenditures from its general fund during the prior three fiscal
years, as reported to the State Controller. In calculating the
three-year average annual general fund expenditures, any
unrestricted funds which the local jurisdiction may expend at
its discretion, including vehicle in-lieu tax revenues and
revenues from fines and • forfeitures, expended for
transportation purposes are expenditures from the general
fundi	-	'

■ ' . ■ ■ - | ;

5.02.02.	For any city incorporated after July 1, 2007, v -
the, city may receive Local Street Repairs and Roadway
Safety Funds during its first three years of incorporation;

39-501	SJ	001-012

thereafter, the city’s annual expenditures of general funds for
transportation purposes shall be an amount not less than the
jurisdiction’s, prior three year average of its annual
expenditures from its general fund as reported to the State
Controller and as specified in subparagraph 5.02.01 of this
Ordinance.

5.02.03.	Subject to Authority approval, if any local
jurisdiction had extraordinary local discretionary fund
expenditures during any fiscal year it may determine that
year’s minimum expenditure base level of local discretionary
funds by:

(a)	subtracting those extraordinary expenses (including
but not limited to Proposition 42 (2002) funding,
assessment district contributions, development
impact funds, redevelopment agehcy contributions,
or other non-recurring contributions) from its total
expenditures; or ,

(b)	petitioning thei Authority for special consideration.' It
is possible that a local jurisdiction may need to
revise its minimum expenditure base beyond the
subtraction of extraordinary expenses. . In this
instance, the Authority may allow the establishment
of a new base for that jurisdiction’s Maintenance of
Effort requirement. A local jurisdiction petitioning the
Authority under this provision must supply evidence.
• of the need for special consideration and the petition

must be approved by a majority vote of the Authority.

„ ■	5.03. The Authority shall annually update the base year

£: i and preceding three year base period for the establishment of
an annual minimum based on the information available from
the State Controller’s Annual Report of Financial Transactions
for Streets and Roads.

5.04. Ah annual independent audit will be conducted to
verify that the Maintenance of Effort requirements were met
by the local jurisdictions. Any local jurisdiction which does not
meet its Maintenance of Effort requirement in any given year
may have its Local Street Repairs and Roadway Safety
Funds received pursuant to the Transportation Expenditure
Plan reduced in the following year by the amount by which the
jurisdiction did not meet its required Maintenance of Effort.
Such funds shall be redistributed to the remaining eligible
jurisdictions.	>	'

SECTION 6. TRANSPORTATION MITIGATION FEES.

“ 6.01. In order to receive funds from the Local Street
Repairs and Roadway Safety; Funds, the local jurisdiction
must have-adopted a local and regional transportation fee
program to assist in mitigating the impact of new development
on the local transportation system.

7.02.	The primary goals of this Plan shall include:

(a)	Monitoring Vehicle Mile Traveled (VMT) as a key
indicator of growth and jobs/housing targets.

(b)	Adopting programs that strive to keep the increase in
VMT to an annual rate that is equal or less than the
population increase.

(c)	Supporting and planning for improved heavy,
passenger rail and regional bus connections with the
Bay Area and Sacramento,

(d)	Ensuring new development contributes a fair share
and provides transportation improvements at the
time of new construction!

7.03.	The Regional Congestion Management Plan shall

consist Of the following:	,\

(aj Traffic Level of Service standards for all regional
. roadway facilities.

(b)	Standards for the frequency and routing of public
transit.

(c)	A trip reduction and travel demand element that
promotes alternative transportation modes.

(d)	A program to coordinate the development review

process to reduce automobile trip generation from
newly developed residential and employment
centers.	•

(e)	The San Joaquin Council of Governments will review
all environmental documents and/or development
applications for residential, commercial, retail, and .
industrial development' in San Joaquin County
generating 125 or more peak hour trips, based on
ITE factors. The San Joaquin Council of
Governments will comment on each, of these i
developments as to their impact on the region and
recommend the appropriate mitigation to address the
impacts the new development will have on the
existing transportation system. The San Joaquin
Council of Governments will coordinate with the
California Department of Transportation on these
comments.

(f)	Use of a regional transportation and traffic computer
model and database to determine the quantitative
impacts of traffic from new and existing development
on the regional transportation system.

6.02- The Authority shall coordinate expenditures from
the proceeds of the one half of one percent sales tax with the
adopted Regional Transportation Plan for San Joaquin
County, and the adopted Regional Congestion Management
Plan for San Joaquin County.

SECTION 7. REGIONAL CONGESTION
MANAGEMENT PLAN.

7.01.	The Authority must have in place and be fully
implementing a Regional Congestion Management Plan by
January 1,2008.

7.04.	An Annual Report will be produced and adopted
by the Authority determining the compliance of all local
agencies and the San Joaquin Council of Governments with
sections 7.01 through 7.03. Should a local agency fail , to
comply with the requirements of this section that agency will
be suspended from being allocated Congestion Relief funds
for new projects until found to be in compliance. Should the
San Joaquin Council of Governments fail to comply with the
requirements of . this section the agericy will suspend
expenditure of the 1% administrative funds until compliance is
achieved.

39-502

SJ 001-013

SECTIONS. AMENDMENTS TO THE TRANSPORTATION -
EXPENDITURE PLAN.

8.01.	Except as specifically provided within the
Transportation Expenditure .Plan regarding amending the
Local Street Repair and Roadway Safety Funds distribution
formula, the Authority may annually review and propose
amendments to the Transportation Expenditure Plan to
provide for the use of additional federal, state and local funds

' to account for unexpected revenues, or to take into
consideration unforeseen circumstances. The Authority shall
act on only one package of amendments each fiscal year.
The Authority shall establish a process for proposed •
Transportation Expenditure Plan amendment(s)' which
ensures that the affected Authority committee(s), established
pursuant to this Ordinance, participate in the development of
the proposed amendment(s).

8.02.	Upon completion of this process, amendments(s) to
the Transportation Expenditure Plan must be passed by a
two-thirds majority of the Authority by a roll call vote entered
in the minutes of the Authority following a notiped, public
hearing of the Authority. Notice of the public hearing shall be
published pursuant to Government Code section 6062.
Subsequently, the Authority shall notify the Board of.
Supervisors, the City Council of each city in the county and ,
provide. each entity with a copy of the proposed
amendment(s). Pursuant to Public Utilities Code 180207,
proposed amendment(s) shall become effective 45 days after
notice is given, unless appealed under the process outlined in.
the following paragraph. Should an .appeal be filed, the ,

' Authority shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
amendment(s) within 45 days of the. filing of the appeal.

8.03.	In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree
with the Authority’s amendments(s), the jurisdiction’s policy
decision-making body must, by a majority vote, determined to
formally notify the Authority of its intent, in writing by
registered mail, to obtain an override of the Authority’s
amendment(s). The appealing jurisdiction will have 45 days
from , the date the Authority adopts the proposed
amendment(s) to obtain resolutions supporting an override of
the amendment(s) from a majority of the cities representing a
majority of the population residing within the incorporated
areas of the county and from the Board of Supervisors. If a
jurisdiction does not obtain the necessary' resolutions
supporting the override, the Authority’s amendment(s) to the
Ordinance will.stand. If the necessary resolutions supporting
the override are obtained within 45 days from the date the
Authority , adopts the proposed amendments); then the
amendment(s) shall not become effective.

8.04.	The Transportation Expenditure Plan shall be
updated by'the Authority every ten years that the sales tax is
in effect to reflect current and changing priorities and needs In
the Co,unty, as. defined by the duly elected local government
representatives on the Authority Board. Any changes to the
Transportation Expenditure Plan must be adopted in
accordance with current law in effect at the time of the update
and must be based on findings of necessity for change by the

; Authority.1

Authority committees established by this Ordinance
participate in the development of the proposed Ordinance
amendment(s).

9.02.	Upon completion of that process, amendment(s) to
this Ordinance must be passed by a two-thirds majority of the
Authority by a roll call vote entered in the minutes of the
Authority. The Authority must hold a noticed, public hearing 1
on the matter before formal adoption of any amendment to
the Ordinance. Notice of the public hearing shall be
published pursuant to Government Code section 6062.

9.03.	In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree
with the Authority’s amendments(s), the jurisdiction’s policy
decision-making body must, by a majority vote, determine to
formally notify the Authority of its intent, in writing by
registered mail, to, obtain an override of the. Authority’s
amendment(s). The appealing jurisdiction will have 45 days
from the date the Authority adopts the proposed
amendment(s) to obtain resolutions supporting an override of
the amendment(s) from a majority of the cities representing a
majority of the population residing within the incorporated
areas of the county and from the Board of Supervisors. If a
jurisdiction does not obtain the necessary resolutions
supporting the override, the Authority’s amendments) to the
Ordinance will stand. If the necessary resolutions supporting
the override are obtained within 45 days from the date the .
Authority adopts the proposed ameridment(s), then, the
amendment(s) shall not become effective..

SECTION 10. AUTHORITY COMMITTEES.

10.01.	The following committee structure is established
to advise the Authority in the administration of the
Transportation Expenditure Plan and this Ordinance.

' 10.01.01. The Management and Financial Advisory
Committee is established to guide administrative and financial
decisions of the Local Transportation Authority and is to be
composed of City Managers, the County Administrator, the
General Manager of the Sari Joaquin Regional Transit
District, and the Executive Director of the San Joaquin
RegionalRail Commission.

10.01.02; The Technical Advisory Committee will
serve as the Authority’s technical advisory committee and be
composed of Directors from the area Public Works
Departments, Planning Departments, Caltrans’ District 10, the
San Joaquin Regional Transit District, the San Joaquin
Regional Rail Commission, the San Joaquin Valley Air
Pollution Control District, and any other agency the Authority
So names.

10.01.03.	The Citizens Review Committee will ,
provide community input on project priorities, scheduling,
amendments, and any other activity the Authority so
designates. The Authority must create a Citizens Review
Committee that fairly represents the geographical, social,
cultural, and economic mix of the region.

SECTION 11. PRIVATE SECTOR FUNDING.

SECTION 9. AMENDMENTS TO THIS ORDINANCE.

9.01.	This Ordinance may be amended to further Its
purposes. The Authority-.shall establish a process fpr
proposed Ordinance amendment(s) which ensures that the

11.01.	Revenues provided from this Ordinance shall not
be used to replace private developer funding which has been
or will be committed for any project;



SECTION 12. BONDING AUTHORITY;

12.01.	The Authority shall have the power to sell or issue,
at anytime, and from time to time, including on or before the
collection of the taxes authorized by this Ordinance, bonds,
notes or other evidences of indebtedness, including capital
appreciation bonds, payable from and secured by the
proceeds from the. sales taxes authorized by this Ordinance
and from the proceeds of the existing Measure K sales taxes;
in order to finance and refinance the transportation projects
identified in the Transportation Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 13. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

1.3.01.	Revenues may be expended by the Authority for
salaries, wages, benefits, overhead, auditing and those
services including contractual services necessary to
administer this Ordinance; however, in no event shall an
amount exceeding 'one percent of the annual revenue
provided ' by this. Ordinance go towards paying the
administrative, salaries and benefits of the staff of the
Authority. Costs of performing' or contracting for project
related work shall be paid from the revenues allocated to the
appropriate purppse as set forth herein.

13.02,	An annual independent audit' shall be conducted
to assure that the revenues expended by the Authority under
this section are necessary and Reasonable in carrying out its
responsibilities under this Ordinance.

( )

SECTION 14. ESTABLISHMENT OF SEPARATE
ACCOUNTS.

14.01.	The: Authority shall allocate funds to. projects and

programs identified in the Transportation Expenditure Plan as
necessary to meet contractual and program obligations. The
Authority may allocate funds as described but may reserve
the right not to disburse monies until needed to meet
contractual project or program obligations, .exclusive of the
Local Street Repairs and Roadway, Safety Fund. Each
agency receiving funds from this Ordinance shall deposit said
funds in a separate interest bearing account identified as the
Transportation Improvement Account. Any interest earned on
funds allocated pursuant to this Ordinance shall be expended
only for those purposes for which the funds were allocated or
shall be returned to the Authority. The Authority reserves the
right to audit such accounts.	-

SECTION IS.; IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCES.

15.01.	Upon approval of this Ordinance by the voters the
Authority shall, in addition to the local rules required to be
provided pursuant to this Ordinance, adopt implementing
ordinances, rules and administrative procedures, and take
such other actions as may be necessary and appropriate to
carry out its responsibilities to implement the Transportation
Expenditure Plan..

SECTION 16. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES.

16.01.	This Ordinance shall become effective on
November 7, 2006 only if a two-thirds majority of the electors
voting on .this Ordinance at the election held on November 7,
2006 vote to approve the Ordinance. If so approved, the
provisions of this Ordinance shall become operative on
November 7, 2006, except as. specified in Sections 3, 4 and
22 regarding the continuation of the One half of one percent
sales tax which shall become operative on April 1,2011.

SECTION 17. DESIGNATION OF FACILITIES.

17.01.	Each project or program in excess of $250,000
funded' in whole or in part by revenues from this Ordinance
shall be clearly designated in writing by signs and/or
documents, during its construction or implementation as being
funded by revenues from this Ordinance.

SECTION 18. CONTRACTS, LOCAL PREFERENCE.

18.01.	It is the preference of the Authority, where
feasible, and allowed under applicable law, to contract with
Northern California organizations and businesses and to
maximize contract opportunities for minority and women
owned businesses. The Authority shall develop administrative
procedures for contracts.

SECTION 19. CONTRACTING FOR PROJECT DELIVERY.

19.01.	The Authority shall have the power to contract for
project delivery of any project or program of the
Transportation Expenditure Plan if all of . the jurisdictions
affected by the project agree and if the Authority finds that:

19.01.01.	The project could be delivered faster under
a contract issued by the Authority; or

19.01.02.	A contract by the Authority would provide
economies of scale arid reduce project costs.

SECTION 20. SEVERABILITY.' If any section, part,
provision, clause or phrase of this Ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances is for any
reason held invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining portions
of this Ordinance and the application of such provisions to
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected but shall
remain in full force and effect.

SECTION 21.	■ ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Article

XIIIB of the California Constitution requires the establishment
of an annual appropriations limit for certain governmental
entities. The maximum annual appropriations limit for the
Authority has beein established as $500 million. The
appropriations limit shall be subject to adjustment as provided
by law. All expenditures of the retail transactions and use tax
revenues continued in Section 22. are subject to the
appropriations limit of the Authority.

SECTION 22. CONTINUATION OF RETAIL

TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
, ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD
OF EQUALIZATION.

22.01.	This Ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of
San Joaquin, which territory shall be referred to herein as
“District*.

22.02.	Operative Date. For the purposes of this Section
22 the “operative date” means April 1, 2011, provided the
Ordinance has been approved by two-thirds of the electors
voting on the. Ordinance.

22.03.	Extension of Sales Tax. This Ordinance is an
extension-of the existing sales tax adopted pursuant to
Ordinance 91-01 and commonly referred to as Measure K.
The sales tax imposed pursuant to this Ordinance is not in
addition to the sales tax imposed by Measure K, but a
continuation of this existing Measure K sales tax for a thirty
year period.

22.04.	Purpose. This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those

purposes:	'

22.04.01; To continue a retail transactions and use
tax in accordance .with • the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code which authorizes the Authority to adopt
this tax Ordinance which shall be operative if a two-thirds
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the continuation of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

22.04.02.	Jo adopt the continuation of a retail
transactions and use- tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of
the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with.the requirements and. limitations contained in
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

\ ’ *

22.04.03.	To adopt the continuation of a retail
transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that
adapts itself as fully as practicable .to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory arid
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes.

. 22.04.04. To adopt the continuation of a retail
transactions and use tax ordinance which ! can be
administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest
degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the
cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes and at the
same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
-Ordinance. .	.

22,05. Contract With State. Prior to the operative date,
the Authority shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a
case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

22.07. Place Of Sale. For the purpose of this Ordinance
all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by - the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-
state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject’to
the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has. no permanent
place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board
of Equalization.

22.08. Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby continued
on the storage, use or other consumption in the Authority of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this Ordinance for storage, use or
other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of
one percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject
to state sales or use tax'regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

22.09. Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law. Except as
otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue artd Taxation Code, all of the provisions of
Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

22.10. Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And
Collection Of Use Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

22.10.01.	Wherever the State of California is
named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this
Authority shall be substituted therefore. However, the.
substitution shall not be made when:

(a)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the
State- Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the . State of

California;

(b)	The result of that substitution would require action to
be taken by or against this Authority or any agency, ,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the . State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions. incident to the
administration or operation of this Qrdinance.

(c)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to, sections referring • to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

22.06. Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby continued
upon all retailers in the. incorporated, and unincorporated
territory of the District at the rate of one-half of one percent of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after
the operative date of this Ordinance.

i. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
. sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt r' 'j
from this tax .while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

39-505

SJ 001-016

7 • ii. Continue this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
1 use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not be subject to tax by the State under
the said provisions of that code;	’

(d)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 Of the
Revenue and Taxation Cbde. .

22.10.02.	The word “District” shall be substituted for
the word “State” in the phrase "retailer enjgaged in business in
this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase
in Section 6203.

. (c) The sale pf tangible personal property if the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

(d)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time
for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property

. for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative
' date of this Ordinance.

(e)	For the purpose of subparagraph (c) and (d) of this
subsection, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is excercised.

22.12.03.	There is exempted from the use tax
continued by this Ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in thjs District of tangible personal property:

(a) The gross receipts from the sale of which have been
subject to a transactions. tax under any state-
admihistered transactions and use tax ordinance..

■•(b) Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased'by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for
hire or compensation under a certificate of (Dublic
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Section 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

(c)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property
for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(d)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
a lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

-	.	I	-

(e)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (c) and (d) of this
section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
. possession of, or exercise of any right of power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract of lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or.
lease has the unconditional, right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

(f)	Except as provided in subparagraph (g) of this
subsection, a retailer engaged in business in the
District shall Hot be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
District or participates within the District in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to,

22.11. Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be
required by this Ordinance. ■ .

■22.12. Exemptions And Exclusions.

22-12.01. There shall be excluded from the measure
of. the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any
sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
1 Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or.the amount of
any state-administered transactions or use tax.'	;

22.12.02.	There are exempted from the computation
of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

f\ (a) Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
y	petroleum	products,	to	operators	of	aircraft to be used

or consumed principally outside the County in which
the sale is made and directly and. exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government.

(b) Sales of property to be used outside the District which
is shipped to a point outside the District, pursuant to
the contract of sales, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent! or by delivery by the retailer to a
carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the District shall be satisfied:

i.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411. of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code by ;

. registration' to an out-of-District address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his principal place of
residence; and

ii.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to
a place of business out-of-District and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will

( be operated from that address.

-017

soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the district of through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the -
' District under the authority of the retailer.

(g)	“A retailer engaged in business in the District” shall
also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with .Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing, with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses
the vehicle, vessel, or’ aircraft at an address in the
District.	,

22.12.04.	Any person subject to use tax under this
Ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the. Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to
the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or
other consumption' of which is subject to the use tax.

22.13. Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the
effective date of this.Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code .relating to sales and use taxes
and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all
amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a
part of this Ordinance; provided, however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
continued by this Ordinance.

SECTION 24. ALLOCATION OF RELEASED FUNDS.

24.01	■ If additional funds become available for a specific
project or projects on the Transportation Expenditure Plan,
the Authority may reallocate the retail transactions and use
tax funds released by the receipt of those additional funds. In
the allocation of the released funds, the Authority shall give
first priority to projects and programs identified in the
Transportation Expenditure Plan adopted by the voters.
Second priority shall be given to other projects and programs
which may be placed on the Transportation Expenditure Plan
through the amendment process described in Section 8.

SECTION 25. ALLOCATION OF EXCESS FUNDS.

25.01	. In the event, that the retail transactions and use

tax revenues generated by this Ordinance are greater than
projected or contingency fund requirements are less than
projected, the Authority may allocate those excess funds
consistent with the Transportation Expenditure Plan adopted
by the voters^	'	.

25.02.	In the allocation of excess funds, the Authority
shall give first priority to,projects and programs identified in
the Transportation Expenditure Plan adopted by the voters.
Second priority shall be given to other projects and programs
of regional significance which are consistent with t,he Regional
Transportation Plan and which are placed, on the
Transportation Expenditure Plan through the amendment
process described in Section 8.

SECTION 26. ANNUAL REPORT.

26.Q1. An annual report will be prepared by the Authority ;
within 180 days of the end of the fiscal year identifying the
actions and accomplishments of the Authority in meeting the
adopted Transportation Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 27. SMART GROWTH INCENTjVE PROGRAM.

22.14.	Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or
writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue
in any suit, action or proceeding in any.court against the State
or the Authority, or against any officer of the State or the
Authority, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected.

22.15.	Effective Date. This Ordinance relates to the
levying and collecting of the District transactions and use
taxes and shall take effect immediately. ,

27.01	. A minimum of $65 million in state and federal
transportation funding or Measure K funding will be made
available during the life of the Measure K Renewal program
for smart growth incentives to local jurisdictions in San
Joaquin County. These funds will be made available for
infrastructure improvements and planning grants that will
assist local agencies in better integrating transportation and
land use, such as street calming, walkable community
projects, transit amenities and alternative, modes of
transportation. These funds will be available to enhance infill
development, neighborhood revitalization and downtown
improvements.

22.16. Termination Date. The authority to levy the tax.
continued by this Ordinance shall expire on March 31, 2041.

SECTION 23. COORDINATION.

23.01.	The Authority shall consult and coordinate its
actions to secure funding for the completion and improvement
of the priority regional projects with the California
Transportation Commission, transit operators and other
interested and affected parties. In addition, the Authority shall
seek all ways to expedite the completion of Transportation
Expenditure Plan projects, the, implementation of which is the
responsibility of other agencies.

27.02.	The overall goals of the program are to promote
infill development (defined as sites with development on at
least three sides) in walkable areas thereby increasing living,
and transportation choices while reducing reliance on
automobiles, and to reward jurisdictions that approve new
housing and mixed-use development in urban locations near
. transit hubs. Projects, to serve cities, currently not served by
high-frequency transit service that are creating conditions that
would allow for increased transit service, encourage livable
communities, support mixed use development, and/or support
infill and redevelopment of downtown areas are eligible. In
high frequency transit areas eligible projects must be within (J m
walking distance of transit hubs (station, transit center, bus .	^

stops serving two or more routes). Investments in transit
hubs themselves are eligible.	.

. 39-507

SJ 001-018

27.03.	This program aims to capitalize" on public
investments in transportation infrastructure, help rebuild and
revitalize town centers and main streets, promote infill
development, create more walkable communities, encourage
transit use, and address regional housing needs. When
allocating dollars for housing projects a minimum overall
density of 10 units per acre with bonus points for higher
densities and affordable housing will. be used. Mixed use
developments must have an average of 12 units per acre and
be at least 50% housing.

27.04.	The Smart Growth Incentive Program will be
available for allocation in fiscal year 2011-12, and will be
available for funding projects on a multiple year basis as
prescribed by the Local Transportation Authority.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the San Joaquin Council of
Governments Board of Directors, acting, as the San Joaquin
County Transportation Authority, State of California, on June
29, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:	Mayor Chavez, Stockton; Councilman Chapman,

Stockton; Vice Mayor Giovanetti, Stockton;
Councilman Hansen, Lodi; Councilman Harris,
Manteca; Councilman 1 Haskin, 'Escalon;
Supervisor Mow, San Joaquin 'County;
Supervisor Ornellas, San; Joaquin County; Mayor
Rhodes, Lathrop; Mayor Winn, Ripon.

NOES:	None

ABSENT: Mayor Bilbrey, Tracy; Supervisor Sieglock, San
Joaquin County.

Signed by:

/s/ Gary L. Haskin, Chair

MEASURE K RENEWAL	0

SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN

APRIL 27, 2006

I

I I



i r

' !:■

r

SAN JOAQUIN COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS

— A JU Sqn Council of GovsinnwntsJWjw

Measure K

ti.ix rvt work

Measure K Expenditure Plan

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Executive Summary...............;................................................         Page	2

San Joaquin County Transportation Authority..........................................     Page	4

Statement of Principles........................................................          .Page	5

Categorical Allocations........................ ;..............................           Page	6

Category Descriptions...........................................................     .....Page	7

Administration...................................................................         Page	22

Taxpayer Accountability Safeguards.........1.....................   /...................  Page	24

San Joaquin Council of Governments
555 East Weber Avenue
Stockton, California 95202
www.sjcog.org

EXPENDITURE PLAN

This document contains the Expenditure Plan of the San Joaquin County Local Transportation
Improvement Plan. This Expenditure Plan, which is required to be adopted by the San Joaquin County
Transportation Authority pursuant to Public Utilities Code commencing with Section 180000, is the legal
•document implementing the local retail transactions and use tax and specifying the method of allocation
of the local retail transactions and use tax revenues and other requirertients of the Measure. The
Ordinance becomes effective at the close of the polls on the day of the ejection at which the local
transportation measure js approved by the voters. The full,text of the Expenditure Plan is provided on the
following pages.	■

fr



Member Jurisdictions

City of Escalon
City of Lathrop
City of Lodi
City of Manteca
City of Ripon
, City of Stockton
City of Tracy
County of San Joaquin

NT

\

1

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Transportation Improvement Plan is aimed at remedying the existing over $7.0 billion deficiency in
transportation funding in San Joaquin County while promoting improved air quality. It also mandates local
development fees and regional growth coordination. The Plan calls for street repairs, safety and
operational improvements on local streets and roads, projects to reduce congestion on streets and
highways, passenger rail and bus service to provide alternatives to the car and improve the air quality of
the San Joaquin Valley, and separation of streets from railroads at designated crossings to improve
safety.

Revenue to fund the Plan comes from the continuation of the existing one half percent (1/2 %) sales tax
and will be limited to a 30-year period. The measure is estimated to generate $2,552 billion for programs.

Categorical Allocations are as follows:

•	35% or $883 million to Local Street Repairs and Roadway Safety

•	86% or $759 million for local street repairs .

•	14% or $124 million for roadway safety

•	32.5%	or	$820	million	to Congestion Relief Projects

•	2.5% or $63 million for Railroad Crossing Safety projects

•	30% or $756 million to Passenger Rail, Bus and Bicycles:

•	39% or $295 million to passenger rail transit

•	49% or $370 million tor bus transit

•	5% or $38 million for bus rapid transit capital

•	7% or $53 million for bicycles, pedestrians, and safe routes to school

By law, the Local Transportation Authority (LTA) can take no more than one percent (1 %) of gross
revenues for administrative salaries and benefits.

CATEGORY DESCRIPTIONS

.	'	1	a

LOCAL STREET REPAIR AND ROADWAY SAFETY - These funds are apportioned according to a
baseline allocation and the annual increase of sales tax revenue over the baseline allocation. The
baseline allocation is the highest annual total of Local Street Repair funding collected in either 2008,

2009, or 2010 divided 50% to San Joaquin County, 50% to the incorporated cities. Individual city
allocations are by their proportionate share of the total incorporated population'. The baselirie allocation
will be increased annually for inflation by 3% or the actual annual growth in sales tax revenue if the actual
annual sales tax growth rate is below 3%. The increase over baseline allocation will.be divided between
alt jurisdictions by population percentage of the totalincorporated and unincorporated population. The
County of San Joaquin is guaranteed an annual minimum of 40% of the combined Local Street Repair
and Roadway Safety funding. An annual minimum of $300,000 is guaranteed to all jurisdictions. This
formula will be reviewed and, if necessary, revised after fifteen years.’These funds must be used to
augment current transportation spending and cannot be used to replace general fund expenditures.

• Local Street Repair includes expenditures to rehabilitate local streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, .
and roadway shoulders.

2

» Roadway Safety promotes motorist safety including fog reflectors, median barriers, roadway
shoulders, emergency vehicle traffic sigflal pre-emption systems, and safe routes to schools.

CONGESTION RELIEF PROJECTS - These are projects of regional importance, which add lanes to
roadways or provide operational improvements that increase rbadway capacity. Projects include state
highway facilities and regional arterial facilities. Funding will be used in combination with other revenue
sources such as state funds or local fees to deliver projects and can be loaned to the state to deliver a
project sooner than would normally be expected through the State Transportation Improvement Program
(STIP) process. Sixty percent (60%) of the funds are dedicated to state highway projects. Forty percent
(40%) of the funds are dedicated to regional arterial projects according to the population of local
jurisdictions.

PASSENGER RAIL, BUS AND BICYCLES - It is the intent to use sales tax revenue to match and
supplement state and federal funds for passenger rail transit, bus transit, and pedestrian/bicycle facilities.

• Passenger Rail Transit includes expenditures to promote and upgrade passenger rail service in
the Stockton - Bay Area corridor over the Altamont and the Modesto - Stockton - Sacramento -
, corridor. Eligible costs include but are not limited to operations, locomotives and passenger cars,
track improvements, train and grade crossing controls.

9	Bus Transit promotes bus service between the cities within San Joaquin County for all trip

purposes. Expenses for capital such as vehicles and operations are eligible. Funding is used for -
bus programs to promote peak hour, commute service as well as bus services for the elderly and
persons with disabilities. These funds can be used for park and ride lots, express bus service,
greater frequencies on existing peak hour routes, trip reduction programs to new employment
centers and service to other counties. The San Joaquin Regional Transit District (SJRTD) is to
receive a minimum allocation of 50% for programs in this category.

9 Bus Rapid Transit Capital prdvides funding specifically for infrastructure to support Bus Rapid
Transit service. Bus RapidTransit provides express bus service with fewer stops and higher
frequencies that are similar to light rail: Bus Rapid Transit requires priority to fc»e given to buses
through traffic signal priority and could allow buses to run on designated high oceupancy roadway
lanes or separate lanes, including off roadway corridors. Bus Rapid Transit can include
interregional/intra-city commute, intercity, and elderly/persons with disabilites bus service.

. • Bicycles, Pedestrians, and Safe Routes to School promotes pedestrian/bjcycls facility projects
including commute facilities, recreational facilities, cross walks, traffic calming projects, and safe
routes to schools.

RAILROAD CROSSING SAFETY PROJECTS - These are projects to provide motorist.safety at railroad
crossings. Projects include grade separation facilities, meant to separate roadways from railroads, as
well as at-grade improvements. A list of potential underpasses or overpasses of railroad tracks on local
streets and roads throughout San Joaquin County has been presented. The Authority will adopt criteria
to prioritize the listing.

The San Joaquin Council of Governments is designated the San Joaquin County Local Transportation
Authority, pursuant to the provisions of Public Utilities Code Section I, Division 19 commencing with
Section 180000. The Local Transportation Authority was created by the San Joaquin County Board of
Supervisors to carry out the activity delineated in the San Joaquin County Local Transportation
Improvement Plan.

SJCOG Board Members

Fiscal Year 2005-06

Councilman Gary L. Haskjn, Chair - City of Escalon
Councilman John W. Harris, Vice Chair - City of Manteca'
Supervisor Jack Sieglock - San Joaquin County
Mayor Gloryanna Rhodes - City of Lathrop
Mayor Dan Bilbrey - City of Tracy
Vice Mayor Gary Giovanetti - City of Stockton
Councilman Larry.Hansen - City of LOdi
Supervisor Victor Mow - San Joaquin County
Mayor Ed Chavez - City of Stockton
Mayor Chuck Winn - City of Ripon
Supervisor Leroy Ornellas - San Joaquin County
Councilman Dan Chapman - City of Stockton

Ex-Officio Members

Jane Perez - Caltrans District 10
Ron Coale - Port of Stockton
Duane Isetti- San Joaquin Regional Transit District

i

'4

The San Joaquin Council of Governments (SJCOG) is designated as the Local Transportation Authority
(LTA) for the county under the provisions contained in SB 142 (Chapter 786, Statutes of 1987) in order to
carry out the activities described in this Expenditure Plan. The Plan was prepared by the San Joaquin
Council of Governments in concert with community leaders, elected officials, management and technical
staff from member cities and the County and interested members of the general public.-; The Local
Transportation Authority’s principles are as follows:

1.	A balanced transportation network of highways, local streets, rail and bus transit and regional

planning is. necessary to preserve the quality of life and a healthy viable economy for San Joaquin
County residents.	'	.	‘	.

2.	Improved air quality is an important goal for San Joaquin County as well as the entire San Joaquin
Valley. Alternatives to the single occupant automobile are important contributors to improved air
quality. The implementation of this Plan must be consistent with the adopted Air Quality Plan for
San Joaquin County and the San Joaquin Valley Air Basin. .

3.	It is estimated that there is currently, a need for over $7.0 billion to fund:

•	Street repair, safety and improvements on local streets and roads;

•	Congestion relief projects to accommodate existing crowding of streets and highways;

•	Capital and operating assistance for passenger rail and bus service;	,

•	Local match requirements for state and federal funding.

4.	State and Federal monies are insufficient to meet San Joaquin County’s transportation needs. A
local retail transactions and use tax for transportation improvements has been demonstrated to be
the funding method best suited to match other revenue sources to meet San Joaquin County's
needs.

5.	All investments in capital facilities and improvements will look at alternatives to widening freeways
that provide more cost effective solutions for intra-county transportation and must be within San
Joaquin County or directly service the interests of San Joaquin County residents.

6; In order to accommodate San Joaquin County population growth so that it does not occur at the
expense of current residents, the cities and the county in San Joaquin will maintain and collect both
local traffic mitigation fees and a regional transportation impact fee to pay for growth-induced
transportation facilities.

7.	To receive Local Street Repair and Roadway Safety funding the cities and the county in San
Joaquin must have adopted both local traffic mitigation fees and a regional transportation impact
fee,

8.	To implement the Plan, management, technical and most importantly citizen Oversight is essential.

SMART GROWTH INCENTIVE PROGRAM

A minimum of $65 million in federal transportation funding or Measure K funding will be made available
during the life of the Measure K Renewal program for smart growth incentives to local jurisdictions in San
Joaquin County. These funds will be available for infrastructure improvements that.will assist local
agencies in better integrating transportation and land use, such as street calming, walkable community
projects, transit amenities and alternative modes of transportation. These funds will be available to
enhance, infill development, neighborhood revitalization and downtown improvements. .

5

39-515	SJ	001-026

CATEGORICAL ALLOCATIONS

The proceeds collected from the sales tax authorized by the San Joaquin County Local Transportation
Improvement Plan shall be allocated to eligible projects based on the formula provided in Table 1.

TABLE 1

ANTICIPATED SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
THIRTY YEAR REVENUE FROM A % % SALES TAX
FOR CATEGORICAL ALLOCATIONS

Thirty Year Revenue Total in 2005 Dollars: $2,522,000,000

CATEGORICAL ALLOCATIONS
(30-Year Estimate in 2005 Dollars) ,

NET FOR ALLOCATION	  $2,522,000,000

35%	$883,000,000

$750,000,000

) ' ' • ' ■■ ■ ■. ■

Local Street Repair	86%

Roadway Safety	14%

CONGESTION RELIEF PROJECTS
PASSENGER RAIL, BUS AND BICYCLES

Passenger Rail Transit	39%
Bus Transit	49%
Bus Rapid Transit Capital	5%
Bicycles, Pedestrians, and Safe Routes to Schools	7%
RAILROAD CROSSING SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS	

$124,000,000

32.5%	$820,000,000

.	30%	$756,000,000

$295,000,000

$370,000,000

$38,000,000

$53,000,000

2.5%	$63,000,000

These revenue allocations are for illustrative purposes and are estimates only. Actual allocations to each
category will be based on the percentages listed above.

6



■r

i



i.r

iil

H

>

CATEGORY DESCRIPTIONS

CONGESTION RELIEF IMPROVEMENTS

Thirty-two and one-half percent (32.5%) of the net revenue generated under this measure will be
allocated to regional capacity improvement projects. For the purposes of this Plan, "capacity
improvement projects" are those capital projects which add lanes to roadways, improve traffic operations, ■
or expand transit capabilities. The cost of these congestion relief projects can include such items as
traffic signals, channelization, curbs and gutters, shoulders, bus rapid transit infrastructure, capital
improvements at the Stockton Metropolitan Airport, project development, etc. as long as these costs are
directly related to the project.

STATE HIGHWAY PROJECTS

Many more state highway improvement projects are needed to address the. congestion and safety
problems than existing state and federal revenues can fund. Of the total funds available in the
Congestion Relief Category, sixty percent (60%) of the funds will be used to match federal and state,
revenues to complete projects of benefit to the state highway system including, but not limited to:

Interstate 205

Widen from 6 to 8 lanes between 1-580 and 1-5
Interstate 5

Widen from 6 to 8 through lanes between 1-205 and Eight Mile Road ■

Route 4 (Crosstown FreewavV

Improve interchanges with 1-5 and Route 99

Route 12

Widen from 4 to 6 lanes between Lower Sacramento Road and Route 99, widen from 2 to 4 lanes between
Lower Sacramento Road and 1-5, provide safety and operational improvements between 1-5 and Bouldin
Island, and reconstruct the Route 99/Route 12 West Interchange •

Route 12 / Route 88

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes within the joint Route 88/Route 12 corridor ; •

Route 99

Widen from 4 to 6 lanes between Route 120 and Route 4 (Crosstown Freeway)

Route 120

Widen from 4 to 6 lanes between 1-5 and Route 99	'	-	'

Highway Access to the Port of Stockton

Impfove access to the Port of Stockton from 1-5 while enhancing the Boggs Tract community by extending
the Stockton Crosstown Freeway to the west from its terminus at Fresno Avenue to the Port of Stockton

7

39-517

9

M

REGIONAL ARTERIAL PROJECTS

Forty percent (40%) of the Congestion Relief Category funding may be used to match state and local
revenues as well as regional transportation impact fee funding to provide capacity improvements to
regional arterials in each of the cities and County of San Joaquin. These funds are apportioned to the
local jurisdictions according to their proportionate share of the total incorporated arid.unincorporated
population. The local jurisdictions will identify and prioritize projects for funding requests to the Authority.
The Authority will allocate'funds consistent with the Regional Transportation Plan. Projects that have an
approved Project Study Report, or equivalent, and are included in the Regional Transportation Plan will
receive an allocation approval automatically from the Authority in the first ten years of the program (2011
to 2021) so long as the allocation does not exceed the total Congestion Relief funds available to that
jurisdiction over the life of the Measure K program. Should revenue projections show an increase in
funding in the program, jurisdictions can seek an additional allocation for a project even if it has already
received a previous allocation. Eligible projects include, but are not limited to:

Escalon Planning Area:

Campbell Road Extension

Construct 2-lane extension of Campbell Road between Sante Fe Avenue and Rt. 120.

Ullrey Avenue / McHenry Avenue Intersection

Reconstruct intersection of Ullrey Avenue and McHenry Avenue including addition of turn pockets,
improvement of traffic signal and installation of train pre-emption system for UPRR railroad crossing.

California Street / McHenry Avenue Intersection

Relocate intersection of California Street and McHenry Avenue to include realignment of California Street .
to a new 4-way intersection of California Street, Weiss Way and McHenry Avenue.

McHenry Avenue Widening

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Roosevelt Avenue and First Street including relocation of traffic signal
at intersection of First Street and McHenry Avenue.

EscalOn-Bellota Road

. Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Mariposa Road and Escalon City limit.

Lathrop Planning Area:

Interstate 5 / Louise Avenue interchange

Reconstruct interchange of 1-5 and Louise Avenue.

. I ,	'

Interstate 5 / Lathrop Road Interchange
Reconstruct interchange of 1-5 and Lathrop Road.

■ Lodi Plannim

Pine Street

Widen from 2 to 3 lanes between Cherokee Lane and Beckman Road.

Victor Road

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Cluff Avenue and the eastern General Plan boundary including
construction of median as well as capacity, signalization, and safety improvements at Route 99.

10

. .	'	39-520	•	~	^

Hutchins Street .	,

Widen from 3 to 4 lanes between Kettleman Lane and Lodi Avenue.

t	.

Harney Lane

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Lower. Sacramento Road and Rt. 99 including construction of raised
landscaped median.

Ham Lane

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Lodi Avenue and Elm Street.

Route 99 / Harney Lane Interchange \

Reconstruct interchange of Rt. 99 and Harney Lane.

Route 99/Turner Road Interchange

Provide capacity, signalization, and safety improvements at the interchange of Rt. 99 and Turner Road.

■	.	•	.	-	i

Turner Road

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between f-5 and the Lodi City limits

Manteca Planning Area:

Route 120 / McKinley Avenue Interchange

Construct new interchange at Rt. 120 and MpKinley Avenue.

Route 99 / Austin Road Interchange

Reconstruct interchange of Hit. 99 and Austin Road.

Louise Avenue

Improvements (Main to Rt. 99)

Route 120 / Main Street Interchange

Reconstruct interchange of Rt. 120 and Main Street.

Route 120 / Airport Way Interchange

Reconstruct interchange of Rt. 120 and Airport Way.

Route 120 / Union Road Interchange

Reconstruct interchange of Rt. 120 and Union Road.

Airport Way

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Lathrop Road and French Camp Road and from 4 to 6 lanes between
French Camp Road and Arch Road

11

,39-521

SJ 001-032

Rjpon Planning Area:

Stockton Avenue

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between 2nd Street and 5th Street.

i	'	’

Route 99 / Main Street / UPRR Interchange

Reconstruct jnterchange of Rt. 99 and Main Street including recbnstruction of Main Street overcrossing of.
UPRR and intersection improvements at Stockton Avenue and East Main Street.

Route 99 / Wilma Avenue / UPRR Interchange

Reconstruct interchange of Rt. 99 and Wilma Avenue including reconstruction of Wilma Avenue
overcrossing of UPRR.

Route 99 / Jack Tone Road / UPRR Interchange

Equity adjustment for reconstructing the interchange of Rt. 99 and Jack Tone Road including
reconstruction of Jack Tone Road overcrossing of UPRR.	,

Route 99 / Olive Avenue / UPRR Interchange

Construct new interchange of Rt. 99 and Olive Avenue including construction of an overcrossing of
UPRR.	,	:

Jack Tone Road

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Ripon City limits and Mariposa Road.

Stockton Planning Area:

Pacific Avenue

Widen from 6 to 8 lanes between the Calaveras River and; Hammer Lane including reconstruction of
intersections, addition of turn and acceleration/deceleration lanes, and reconstruction/extertsion of a
raised landscaped median. ,

Thornton Road

Widen to 6 lanes between Bear Creek and Hammer Lane including reconstruction of intersections,
addition of turn and acceleration/deceleration lanes, and construction of a raised landscaped median. .

Eight Mile Road Expressway. ,	'

, Widen to 8 through lanes between 1-5 and Rt.99 including reconstruction of intersections, addition of turn
and acceleration/deceleration lanes, and construction of a raised median.

Airport Way

Reconstruct intersections, add turn lanes, and install traffic signal improvements between Harding Way
and Industrial Drive

Mariposa Road

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Rt. 99 and Jack Tone Road.

Interstate 5 Widening and Improvements
Route 99 Widening and Improvements

I

I

12

39-522	SJ	001-033

I

f

Tracv Planning Area:

Corral Hollow

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes, between Linne Road and Parkside Road including construction of median and
sidewalk.	.	•

Mac Arthur Drive

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Valpico Road and Schulte Road including construction of median and
sidewalk. Construct 4 lane extension of Mac Arthur Drive between Monte Diablo Road and Eleventh
Street including construction of median and sidewalk.

Grant Line Road	*	-

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Parker and Mac Arthur Drive including construction of median and
sidewalk.

Schulte Road

Construct 4 lane extension of Schulte Road between west of Corral Hollow Road and Lammers Road
including construction of median and sidewalk. .

Interstate 205 / Lammers Road Interchange

Construct new interchange of 1-205 and Lammers Roadi

Interstate 205 / Mac Arthur Drive interchange	'

Improve ramps at interchange of 1-205 and Mac Arthur Drive.

Eleventh Street

, improve roadway between Mac Arthur Drive and 1-5 including installation of traffic signal and/or
roundabout improvements at intersections, center median, and an eastbound auxiliary lane at selected
areas of Eleventh Street corridor.	■	'	\

Linne Road

Widen from 2 to 4 lanes between Tracy Boulevard and Chrisman Road.

13

SJ 001-034

1

LOCAL STREET REPAIRS AND ROADWAY SAFETY

Cities and the. County will share thirty-five percent (35%) of the net sales tax revenue for local street
repairs, roadway safety and operations improvements as determined by the local jurisdiction. Local
jurisdictions will receive an annual funding allocation on a formula basis according to a baseline allocation
and the sales tax revenue increase over the baseline allocation. The baseline allocation is the highest
annual total of Locaj Street Repair funding collected in either 2008, 2009, or 2010 djvided 50%.to San
Joaquin County, 50% to the incorporated cities. Individual city allocations are by their proportionate Share
of the total incorporated population. The baseline allocation will be increased annually for inflation by 3%
or the actual annual growth in sales tax revenue if the actual annual sales tax growth rate is below 3%.
The increase over baseline allocation will be divided between all jurisdictions by population percentage of
the total incorporated and unincorporated population. The County of Sari Joaquin is guaranteed an
annual minimum of 40% of the combined Local Street Repair and Roadway Safety funding. An annual
minimum of $300,000.is guaranteed to all jurisdictions. This formula will be reviewed and, if necessary,
revised after fifteen years. These funds must be used to augment current transportation spending and,
cannot be Used to replace general fund expenditures. -

Local Street Repair

Local Street Repair includes expenditures to rehabilitate local roadways as determined by the focal
jurisdiction. It is the intent of the California State Legislature and the Authority that revenues provided
under this measure be used to supplement existing revenues being used for local street maintenance
projects and programs.

Maintenance of Effort Policy:

•	A JURISDICTION CANNOT REDIRECT MONIES CURRENTLY BEING USED FOR LOCAL
STREET MAINTENANCE PURPOSES TO OTHER USES, AND THEN REPLACE THE
REDIRECTED FUNDS WITH LOCAL STREET MAINTENANCE DOLLARS FROM THE RETAIL
TRANSACTION AND USE TAX. To meet the requirements of state law, a jurisdiction must
demonstrate maintenance or a minimum level of local street and road expenditures in
conformance with procedures adopted in ordinance by the Authority. Monies from this program
may not go to a city’s or the County’s "General Fund".

•	,' The Authority shall annually update the base year and preceding three year base period for the

establishment of an annual minimum based on the information available from the State
Controller’s Annual Report of Financial Transactions for Streets and. Roads.

•	An annual independent audit will be conducted to verify that the Maintenance of Effort
requirements were met by the local jurisdictions. Any local jurisdiction which does not meet its
Maintenance of Effort requirement in any given year may have its Local Street Repair funding
reduced in the following year by the amount by which the jurisdiction did not meet its required .
Maintenance of Effort. Such funds shall be redistributed to the remaining eligible jurisdictions.

•	A jurisdiction may use monies from this source to offset the loss of traffic fee revenue from
exempted "affordable housing units" as defined in the Regional Fair Share Housing Plan.

•	Local jurisdictions may "lend" any of their allocation to another agency so that projects could be

expedited as long as a formal agreement is executed by all agencies involved and is approved by
the Authority,	<



14

39-524	SJ	001-035

Roadway Safety

Roadway Safety includes expenditures to promote safety improvements on local roadways as determined

f >

by the local jurisdiction. Local jurisdictions will provide an annual report of roadway safety projects
completed with Roadway Safety funding as part of the annual independent audit of maintenance of effort
for Local Street Repair funding.

Eligible projects that may be funded under this program include, but are not limited to:

•	Roadway shoulders

•	Traffic signal synchronization

•	Acceleration/deceleration lanes

•	Emergency vehicle traffic signal pre-emption systems

•	Raised fog reflectors

•	Turn lanes and pockets

•	Safe routes to schools

•	Roadway realignments

Median barriers; and guard rails

15

PASSENGER RAIL. BUS AND BICYCLES

Thirty percent (30%) of the net sales tax revenue generated in the Measure K program will be allocated
for passenger rail transit, bus transit, and pedestrian/bicycle projects. The objective of this category is to
provide alternatives to the use of automobiles as a means of intercity and commute transportation. This is
an important step in improving air quality in. addition to enhancing the mobility of persons without access
to private automobiles, the elderly, and persons with disabilities of San Joaquin County. It is the intent to
' use sales tax. revenue to match and supplement state and federal funds. All investments in capital items
or facilities will be within San Joaquin County or directly service the interests of San Joaquin County
residents.

Passenger Rail Transit

Passenger Rail Transit includes expenditures to promote and upgrade commuter rail service provided by
■the Altamont Commuter Express (ACE) service. This category is intended primarily for capital purchases.
Eligible costs jnclude operations. The two primary corridors identified for rail service .are:

1.	Stockton - Bay Area

2.	Modesto - Stockton - Sacramento

Eligible projects that may be funded under this program include, but are not limited to:

•	ACE.stations'

•	Track improvements

•	Locomotives and rail passenger cars

•	Grade crossing controls	•	-

•	Connections to BART and other transit systems

•	Service planning and studies

•	Ripon Multimodal Station

Bus Transit

Bus Transit includes interregional/intra-city commute,, inter-city, arid elderly/persons with disabilities bus
service. Inter-city and Elderly/Persons with Disabilities Service promotes both bus service between the
cities within San Joaquin County for all trip purposes and specialized elderly/persons with disabilities bus
service throughout San Joaquin County. Interregional/lntra-city Commute Service includes bus programs
to promote peak hoUr, commute service. To address needs in the next two funding categories, the
Authority shall prepare and update every five years a 20-year Regional Transit Systems Plan to allocate
monies from this program to promote the ridership on and the efficiency of peak hour, commute time and
intercity bus service. The San Joaquin Regional Transit District is to receive a minimum of 50% of the
funds allocated from this program for implementing the projects identified above in conformance with the
Regional Transit Systems Plan. Local jurisdiction transit programs are eligible to apply for funding
provided that, with the exception of local jurisdictions less than 75,000 in population, the San Joaquin
Regional Transit District and the San Joaquin Regional Rail Commission, hone of their Transportation
Development Act (TDA) local transportation funding (LTF) is claimed or reclaimed under Public Utilities
Code, Chapter 4, Article 8, Section 99400a for local streets and roads purposed, excluding pedestrian
and bicycle facilities.

An amount equal to 50% of the City of Ripon’s and the City of Escalon’s share of the transit category
based upon population will be made available for transit service to the Modesto area from those
communities. Any funds not used by the Cities of Ripon and Escalon will be made available for regional
transit purposes.

16 . ________________________________________________________________

SJ 001-037

39-526.

Interreqional/Intra-Gitv Commute Service

These funds are to provide additional peak hour service to foster more commute trip making on transit.,
Funding would be available for both capital and operations. Funding could go towards any project that
promotes the use of alternative transportation during the commute hours and is available to local
jurisdictions providing bus transit service. This funding category is to supplement and apt to replace
funding for existing service, excluding those services funded urider the 1990 Measure K program. This
program is also available for facilities and the promotion of rideshare alternatives such as carpools,
vanpools, and buspools.	.

Eligible projects that may be funded under this program include, but are not. limited to:

•	Bus service to employment centers in other counties Such as Alameda, Sacramento and

Stanislaus.

•	Bus service to regional education centers.

•	Greater frequencies on existing peak hour intra-city bus routes.

•	Express Bus Service: on 1-5 and Route 99	•	'	'	,

•	Region-wide ride share program

•	Park and ride lot locations in San Joaquin County .

•	Bus Rapid Transit operations

Inter-CItv and Elderlv/Persoris with Disabilities Transit

Eligible projects that may be funded under this program in the following priority order, include, but are not
limited to:

•	Inter-city bus service between. Stockton and the Cities of Lodi, Manteca, Lathrop, Tracy, Escajon

and Ripon for all trip purposes;

•	Capital purchases such as vehicles for providing transit service in all communities to the elderly,

persons with disabilities, and the transportation disadvantaged.

•	Operating expenses for transit service to the elderly, persons with disabilities, and the

transportation disadvantaged.

•	Bus Rapid Transit operations
Bus Rapid Transit Capital

Bus Rapid Transit provides express bus service with fewer stops and higher frequencies that are similar
to light rail. Bus Rapid Transit requires priority to be given to buses through traffic signal priority and
could allow buses to run on designated high occupancy roadway lanes or separate lanes, including off
roadway corridors. Bus Rapid Transit can include interregional/intfa-city commute, inter-city, and
elderly/persons with disabilities bus service. Bus Rapid Transit Capital provides funding specifically for
infrastructure to support Bus Rapid Transit service.. Local jurisdiction transit programs are eligible to
apply for funding provided that, with the exception of local jurisdictions less than 75,000 irv population, the
San Joaquin Regional Transit District and the San Joaquin Regional Rail Commission, none of their
Transportation Development Act (TDA) local transportation funding (LTF) is claimed or reclaimed under
Public Utilities Code, Chapter^, Article 8, Section 99400a for local streets and roads purposes, excluding
pedestrian and bicycle facilities.

Eligible projects that may be funded under this program include, but are not limited to:

•	Dedicated bus lanes

•	Stations

•	Turnouts	/

•	Fare collection systems

•	Traffic signal pre-emption systems for buses ,

Bicycles, Pedestrians, and Safe Routes to School

These funds are to expand and enhance pedestrian and bicycle safety and facilities within San Joaquin
County. These projects may include improving existing pedestrian and bicycle facilities and/or planning,
developing, and constructing new facilities. Sixty percent (60%) of the funds will be allocated according to
a Competitive grant process. Forty percent (40%) of the funds will be allocated to the local jurisdictions
according to their proportionate share of the total incorportated and unincorporated population. All local
jurisdictions, the San Joaquin Regional Transit District, and the San Joaquin Regional Rail Commission
are eligible to apply for the competitive funding. It is intended that these funds be used to match federal,
state, local; and private funding to maximize the number of improvements to be implemented.

Eligible projects that may be funded under this program include, but are not limited to:

•	Bicycle commute facilities on separate rjghts-of-way	-

•	Recreational pedestrian and bicycle facilities .

. ® Traffic calming devices

•	Cross walks

•	Pedestrian/bicycie overcrossings	>	'

•	Safe routes to schools

19

RAILROAD CROSSING SAFETY

Two and one-half percent (2.5%) of the net revenue generated under this measure will be allocated to
railroad crossing safety projects. Railroad crossing safety projects include grade separation facility
projects, meant to separate local roads and streets from railroads, as well as at-grade improvements.
Grade separations can be done through the construction of overpasses or underpasses. Funds will be
used to match state and local revenues to fund the following list of eligible railroad crossing safety
projects. The Authority will adopt criteria to'prioritize the listing.

Escalon Planning Area:

Escalon BNSF Crossing

Construct grade separation or at-grade irnprovements of BNSF railway crossings at location in City of
Escalon to be determined through iocal arterial circulation analysis.

Lathrop Planning Area:

Lathrop Road / UPRR (Westerly)

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

Lodi Planning Area:

I'

Harney Lane/ UPRR

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

Lodi Avenue / UPRR

Construct safety improvements of railway crossing.

Lower Sacramento Road / UPRR. (near Woodson Road)

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

Davis Road / UPRR

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

Turner Road/ UPRR

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

• )

Manteca Planning Area:

Airport Way / UPRR

Construct at-grade improvements of railway crossing.

Ripon Planning Area:

Route 99 / Main Street / UPRR

Reconstruct overcrossing of railway as part of interchange reconstruction project.
Route 99 / Wilma Road / UPRR

Reconstruct overcrossing of railway as part of interchange .reconstruction project.

Stockton Planning Area:

Eight Mile / UPRR! (Westerly)

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

Eight Mile / UPRR (Easterly)

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

Airport Way / E3NSF

Construct at-grade improvements of railway crossing.
8th Street / UPRR

Construct, grade separation of roadway and railway.

Lower Sacramento Road / UPRR

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

Morada Lane/ UPRR (Westerly)

Construct grade separation of roadway arid railway.

West Lane / UPRR

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

Alpine Road / UPRR (Westerly)

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

Alpine Read / UPRR (Easterly)

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.

Tracv Planning Area:

Chrisman Road / UPRR

Construct grade separation of roadway and railway.


ADMINISTRATION

LOCAL TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY ADMINISTRATION

The Authority will hire the staff and professional! assistance required to administer the proceeds of the tax
and carry out the mission outlined in this Expenditure Plan.

• , The total.administrative cost of salaries and benefits of the staff of the Authority shall not exceed
one percent (1 %) of the gross revenues generated by the measure, These costs include salaries,
wages, benefits, overhead, auditing and those services including contractual services necessary
to administer this Plan.

•	An annual independent audit shall be conducted to assure that the revenues expended by the
Authority under this section are necessary and reasonable in carrying out its responsibilities
under the Ordinance.

•	The Authority will prepare an annual report, identifying the total expenditures for administration,
as well as other costs associated with delivering the program.

•	An annual budget will be adopted by the Authority each year. The budget will project the
expected sales tax receipts, other anticipated funds, and planned expenditures for administration,
programs, and projects. The Strategic Plan can serve as the budget.

AUTHORITY COMMITTEES

The following committee structure will advise the Authority in the administration of the Expenditure Plan.

•	The Management and Finance Comm/ffee will guide administrative and financial decisions of
the Local Transportation Authority and is to be composed of City Managers, the County
Administrator, the General Manager of the San Joaquin Regional Transit District, and the
Executive Director of the San Joaquin Regional Rail Commission.

•	The Technical Advisory Committee will serve as the Authority’s technical advisory committee
and be composed of Directors from the area Public Works Departments, Planning Departments,
Caltrans District 10, the San Joaquin Regional Transit District, the San Joaquin Regional Rail
Commission,, the Air Pollution Control District, and any other agency the Authority so names.

•	The Citizens Review Committee will serve to provide community input on project priorities,
scheduling, amendments, and any other activity the Authority so designates. The Authority must
create a Citizens Review Committee that fairly represents the geographical, social, cultural, and
economic mix of the region.



STRATEGIC PLAN

The Authority will prepare a Strategic Plan every two years. The Strategic Plan will be the master •
document for delivery of the Expenditure Plan projects and can be amended at any time. The purposes
of the Strategic Plan are as follows:	

•	Defines the scope, cost, and schedule of each project

•	Identifies accomplishments and critical issues
. • Lists a set of amendments to these projects

•	Details the revenue projections and possible financing tools needed to deliver the Expenditure .
Plan

•	Gathers into one document the policies and procedures of the Expenditure Plan	'

•	Serve as annual budget

AMENDMENTS TO THE EXPENDITURE PLAN

The Authority may annually review and propose amendments to the Expenditure Plan to provide for the
use of additional federal, state and loCal funds, to account for unexpected revenues, or to take into,
consideration unforeseen circumstances. The Authority shall act on only one package of amendments
per fiscal year, Amendments to the Expenditure Plan must be passed by a two thirds majority of the
Authority, The Authority shall notify the Board of Supervisors, the City Council of each city in the county
and provide each entity with a copy of the proposed amendment(s). Pursuant to Public Utilities Code
180207, proposed amendment(s) shall become effective 45 days after notice is given, unless appealed
under the process outlined in the Ordinance. The Authority shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
amendment(s) within this 45 day period.

MANDATORY development fees

All communities in San Joaquin’County must have adopted both a local development fee program for
traffic mitigation and the Regional Transportation Impact Fee. Should a jurisdiction not have a local traffic
impact mitigation fee and the Regional Transportation impact Fee in place by the last day of the fiscal
year, then all revenue apportioned to that community under the Local Street Repair Program will be
reapportioned for the following fiscal year among all the eligible jurisdictions based on the adopted
formula.	


TAXPAYER ACCOUNTABILITY SAFEGUARDS

LEGAL DEDICATION OF FUNDS

Measure K funds may only be used for transportation purposes as described in the local ordinance
governing this program, including the construction, environmental mitigation of transportation projects;
capital activities, acquisition, maintenance, and operation of streets, roads, highways, including state
highways and public transit systems and for related purposes. These purposes include but are not limited
to expenditures for the planning, environmental reviews, engineering and design costs, related right-of-
way acquisition, and construction, engineering and administration.

MANDATORY ANNUAL FISCAL AUDIT

No less than annually, the Authprity shall conduct an independent fiscal audit of the expenditure of all
sales tax funds raised by this measure. The audit, which shall be made available to the public, shall
report on evidence that the expenditure of funds is in accordance with the San Joaquin County
Transportation improvement Plan as adopted by the voters in approving the sales tax measure on
November 2, 2006. In addition, the audit shall determine that Maintenance of Effort requirements and
local government participation in both the Regional Transportation Impact Fee Program as well as a local
developer fee program for traffic mitigation. The audit shall also insure that no more than one percent
(1 %) of total sales tax expenditures is used for administrative staff salaries and benefits in implementing
this Plan.


MANDATORY PLAN UPDATE AND TERMINATION OF SALES TAX

This Plan shall be updated by the Authority every ten years that the sales tax is in effect to reflect current
and changing priorities and needs in the County, as defined by the duly elected local government
representatives on the Authority Board. Any changes to this Plan must be adopted in accordance with
current law in effect at the time of the update and must be based on findings of necessity for change by
the Authority. The sales tax authorized to be collected by the voters shall be terminated on March 31,
2041, unless reauthorized by,the voters to extend the sales tax prior to the termination date as required
under state law in effect at the time of the vote for extension. For the purpose of this and future sales tax
extensions, sales tax collected under this plan may be used to reimburse the Authority for costs
associated with drafting a successor plan, conducting a Programmatic Environmental Impact Report, and the election.

<summaryend>
