CITY OF SOLANA BEACH
Proposition E

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROPE

BEACH AREA BENEFIT TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX. Shall the City increase
the transient occupancy tax (TOT) paid by
hotel and motel visitors from 10% to 13% over a three-year period,
and shall two-thirds of the increased TOT revenue be allocated to
Sand Replenishment/Retention and Coastal Access Capital Projects,
and shall one-third of the increased TOT revenue be allocated to
Coastal Area Business/Visitor Assistance and Enhancements?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds of the voters.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City Attorney has prepared the following Impartial Analysis of Proposition E as follows:

Proposition E is a special tax measure which will change the Transient Occupancy Tax
("TOT") of the City of Solana Beach to set up special funds for sand replenishment and
other coastal-related projects in the City. The TOT is the tax charged to visitors who
stay in hotels in the City for thirty (30) days or less.

Currently, the ten percent (10%) TOT is not earmarked for any particular service, but is
used to fund general governmental operations, such as roads, police, fire protection
and other City services. The proposed Measure will phase in a three percent (3%)
increase in the TOT as follows:

10%, effective until December 31, 2006;

11%, effective from January 1, 2007 until December 31,2007;

12%, effective from January 1,2008 until December 31, 2008; and

13%, effective January 1, 2009.

While the first ten percent (10%) of the TOT will continue being used for general
governmental services, the additional three percent (3%) will be used for special
purposes only as follows:

(1)	Two-thirds of the amount collected in excess of 10% shall be deposited
in a Special Fund, for projects such as environmentally benign sand
replenishment and retention projects; construction of coastal access
facilities such as stairways; parks; and beach area public service facilities.
Funding of sand replenishment and retention projects shall be given
priority over other projects. Revenues from this fund shall not be used
for seawalls or operational activities. All expenditures made shall be
consistent with any certified Local Coastal Plan, adopted by the City Council

(2)	One-third of the amount collected in excess of 10% shall be for deposit
in a Special Fund, for activities such as local business and visitor
promotion, such as Chamber of Commerce assistance and North
County Convention and Visitors Bureau assistance; special event
assistance; public art projects; and enhancements to areas serving
visitors including the Highway 101 corridor and Cedros Avenue.

This Proposition shall become law if it is approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters.
The above statement is an impartial analysis of Proposition E. If you desire a copy of
the proposition and Ordinance No. 340, please call the elections official’s office (City
Clerk) at (858) 720-2400 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PR-09X0-1

N SO 034-070

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION E

As residents, beachgoers, and business owners, we strongly encourage you to join us
in endorsing this measure. It will help restore our beach and protect our bluffs. Our
local visitor and resident serving retailers, and our providers of short-term
accommodations should all benefit. A "YES" vote on this measure is a vote for visitors
to our city to support these important community assets by paying an increase in the
transient occupancy tax (TOT).

The proposed 3% TOT increase will be phased in over three years. It is not paid by
any Solana Beach resident. When any of us vacations elsewhere, we help subsidize
expenditures in the towns we visiUhrough their TOTs. Visitors to our hotels, motels
and other short-term rentals will be able to contribute directly to the beaches and
businesses they enjoy while here.

Approximately $160',000 per year, or two-thirds of the fully phased in 3% TOT
increase, will be earmarked to help restore a wide sandy beach for recreation through
environmentally sound sand replenishment and retention programs. This should
reduce the need for bluff in-fills and seawalls. Funds will also be available for
improved coastal access, but not for construction of seawalls or ongoing city operations.

Approximately $80,000 per year, or one-third of the fully phased in 3% TOT increase,
will be used to promote tourism and enhance Highway 101 and Cedros businesses.
This direct allocation to local merchants and the indirect benefit of a widened beach
should increase revenues for our retailers, motels, hotels and short-term condominium
rental units.

A YES VOTE is supported unanimously by the City Council. Members of the Surfrider
Foundation also endorse this measure. Please join us.

VOTE YES.

SUPPORT our local BUSINESSES.

HELP put the BEACH back in SOLANA BEACH.

WILLIAM D. GLOCKNER
Condominium Organization of
South Sierra Ave.

SEAN M. MACLEOD
S. Cedros Property Owners

TOM PETRE
Village Walk 101

RONALD LUCKER
Beach & Bluff Conservancy

JAMES I. JAF^FEE
Vice President, CalBeach Advocates

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION E

No argument against the proposition was filed
in the office of the City Clerk.

PR-09X0-2

N SD 034-071