ORDINANCE NO. 2007- 0 3

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ORLAND
AMENDING SECTION 3.12.020 OF THE ORLAND MUNICIPAL CODE
TO INCREASE HOTEL USER TAX .

The City Council of the City of Orland does ordain as follows:

Section 1: Purpose and Authority

The purpose of this Ordinance is to amend Section 3.12.020 of the Orland Municipal
Code, to provide for change to the tax paid by each hotel user to a hotel operator doing
business in the City of Orland. The City of Orland Municipal Code is hereby amended
and adopted pursuant to Section 65850 of the Government Code as follows

Section 2: Findings

WHEREAS, the City of Orland Hotel User Tax Ordinance, Orland Municipal
Code, Title 3, Chapter 3.12, was adopted by the Orland City Council by Ordinance 96-
11;and

WHEREAS, Section 3.12.020 of Chapter 3.12 of Title 3 of the Orland Municipal
Code, currently imposes an eight percent (8%) “Hotel Users Tax”, on persons
occupying “Hotels” in the City of Orland; and

WHEREAS, in 2006, the City Council for the City of Orland considered raising
the Hotel Users Tax from 8.0% to 10.0%; and

WHEREAS, as a result of the passage of Proposition 218 by the voters of the
State of California on November 6, 1996, Article XIII C and D of the California
Constitution was amended to include the requirement that “No local government may
impose, extend or increase any general tax unless and until that tax is submitted to the
electorate and approved by a majority vote.” The proposed increase in the Hotel Users
Tax was submitted to the electorate for their approval or rejection; and

WHEREAS, the following question was submitted to the voters at the general
municipal election to be held in the City of Orland on Tuesday, November 7, 2006:

“Shall the ordinance increasing the Hotel Users Tax from eight percent (8%) to
ten percent (10%) be adopted?”

WHEREAS, at the general municipal election held in the City of Orland on
Tuesday, November 7, 2006, a majority of the electorate approved the proposed
increase in the hotel Users Tax, from eight percent (8%) to ten percent (10%), which
election results were certified at the regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council of
the City of Orland, on December 4, 2006; and

Ordinance No. 2007-
January, 2007

Page 1

WHEREAS, the City Attorney has recommended that the City Council adopt the
proposed change to Section 3.12.020 of the Orland Municipal Code, to modify the
existing Orland Municipal Code Section 3.12.020 as follows:

“3.12.020 Tax imposed.

“For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel located in the incorporated portion of
the city, each hotel user is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of eight ten
percent of the rent charged by the operator.”

WHEREAS, the City Council reviewed the proposed amendment of Section

3.12.020	of the Orland Municipal Code at their regular meeting of January , 2007.

Section 3: Action

The City Council hereby amends Section 3.12.020 of the Orland Municipal Code to
modify the existing Orland Municipal Code Section 3.12.020, as follows:

“3.12.020 Tax imposed.

“For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel located in the incorporated portion of
the city, each hotel user is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of eight ten
percent of the rent charged by the operator.”

Section 4: No Mandatory Duty of Care.

This Ordinance is not intended to and shall not be construed or given effect in a manner
that imposes upon the City or any officer or employee thereof a mandatory duty of care
towards persons and property within or without the City, so as to provide a basis of civil
liability for damages, except as otherwise imposed by law.

Section 5: Severability.

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. This City
Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this ordinance irrespective of the
invalidity of any particular portion thereof and intends that the invalid portions should be
severed and the balance of the ordinance be enforced.

Section 6: Effective Date and Publication

This Ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days after its adoption. In lieu of publication
of the full text of the ordinance within fifteen (15) days after its passage, a summary of
the Ordinance may be published at least five (5) days prior to and fifteen (15) days after
adoption by the City Council and a certified copy shall be posted in the office of the City
Clerk, pursuant to GC 36933(c)(1).

Ordinance No. 2007-
January , 2007

Page 2

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Orland this 16 day of
January, 2007 by the following vote:

AYES: Councilmembers Olney, Yalow, Montague and Barr
NOES: None
ABSTAIN: None
ABSENT: None

PAUL BARR, MAYOR

CODIFY__________________________ UNCODIFY

Ordinance No. 2007-
January, 2007

Page 3

CITY OF ORLAND MEASURE
TO INCREASE THE HOTEL USERS TAX

Impartial Analysis by City Attorney

Chapter 3.12 Section 3.12.020 of the City of Orland Municipal Code currently imposes an eight
percent (8%) “Hotel Users Tax”, on persons occupying “Hotels” in the City of Orland. The City
Council of the City of Orland is submitting the following question to the voters at the general
municipal election to be held in the City of Orland on Tuesday, November 7, 2006:

“Shall the ordinance increasing the Hotel Users Tax from eight percent (8%) to
ten percent (10%) be adopted?”

The tax is normally paid to the operator of the hotel at the time payment for the room rental is made.
The hotel operator is required to collect the tax, and the operator remits the tax to the City of Orland.
The estimated amount of money to be received by the City of Orland’s General Fund for the fiscal
year beginning July 1,2006, as a result of the current Hotel Users Tax is approximately Forth-Five
Thousand Dollars ($45,000).

As a result of the passage of Proposition 218 by the voters of the State of California on November
6,1996, Article XIIIC and D of the California Constitution was amended to include the requirement
that “No local government may impose, extend or increase any general tax unless and until that tax
is submitted to the electorate and approved by a majority vote.” This measure is therefore submitted
to the electorate for their approval or rejection.

A “Yes” vote would approve the adoption by ordinance of a ten percent (10%) “Hotel Users Tax”
and would increase the City’s General Fund revenues by approximately $11,250.

A “No” vote would reject the measure and would mean that the City’s revenues from the “Hotel
Users Tax” would remain at eight percent (8%).

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the City of Orland Measure to increase the
Hotel Users Tax. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the office of the
City Manager/Clerk at (530) 865-1600 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

City Attorney

RESOLUTION 2006-_09

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ORLAND
PROPOSING AN INCREASE IN THE HOTEL USERS TAX;

CALLING FOR AN ELECTION TO SUBMIT TO THE VOTERS
THE QUESTION RELATING TO THE HOTEL USERS TAX;
REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS TO CONDUCT SAID ELECTION; AND
AUTHORIZING THE CITY CLERK TO CARRY OUT ALL NECESSARY
PROCEDURES FOR SAID ELECTION

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Orland desires to increase its already existing
Hotel Users Tax, which is imposed on persons occupying “hotels” in the City of Orland in order to
enhance the financial stability of the City; and

WHEREAS, the City Council proposes the adoption of an increase in the Hotel Users Tax as
set forth below and desires to submit said tax increase as a measure to be voted upon at an upcoming
election; and

WHEREAS, the need to enhance the City’s revenues results from several years of the State of
California transferring revenues, otherwise owed and payable to the City, to other entities and for other
uses; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that an election be called for the purpose of permitting the City’s
voters to determine whether the increase in the Hotel Users Tax should be adopted; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that said election be consolidated with other elections throughout
Glenn County to be held November 7, 2006, and that within the City, the precincts, polling places and
election officers of the consolidated elections be the same; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the County Clerk of the County of Glenn canvass the returns of
said election and that the elections be handled in all respects as if there were only one election.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Orland does resolve as follows:

Section 1. That pursuant to the requirements and laws of the State of California relating to general law
cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of Orland, California, on Tuesday, November
7, 2006, an election.

Section 2. That the Board of Supervisors of the County of Glenn is hereby requested to consent and
agree to consolidation of said election with the statewide general election taking place on said date.

Section 3. Subject to approval by the electorate, the City Council proposes the adoption of an
increase in the City’s Hotel Users Tax from 8 percent to 10 percent as set forth in the ordinance

Resolution No. 2006-09
Page 2

specified in Section 5 below.

Section 4. That the City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does order submitted to the voters
at the said election the following question:

“Shall the ordinance increasing the Hotel Users Tax from 8 percent to 10 percent be adopted?”

Section 5. That should said question be approved by the requisite vote, the following ordinance shall
be enacted.

“The people of the City of Orland do ordain that Chapter 3.12, Section 3.12.020 be amended
to read as follows:

“3.12.020 Tax Imposed. For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel located in the incorporated
portion of the city, each hotel user is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent
of the rent charged by the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the hotel user to the
city, which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The hotel user shall
pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in
installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax
shall be due upon the hotel user ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax
due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax administrator shall require that such tax be
paid directly to the treasurer of the city.”

Section 6. The County Clerk is authorized to canvass the return of said election. The election shall be
held in all respects as if there were only one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

Section 7. The City Clerk is hereby directed to issue instructions to the County Clerk to take any and
all steps necessary for the holding of the election.

Section 8. The City Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this Resolution with the Board of
Supervisors and the County Clerk of the County of Glenn.

Section 9. Notice of holding the election is hereby given and the City Clerk is authorized, instructed
and directed to give further and/or additional notice of the election in time, form and manner as required
by law.

Section 10. The City Clerk shall fix and determine a reasonable date prior to the election after which
arguments for or against the question may be submitted to the City Clerk, and shall cause any
arguments for or against the question to be printed and enclosed with the sample ballot.

Section 11. The City Clerk is directed to transmit, a copy of this resolution to the City Attorney who
shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure.

Section 12. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as

Resolution No. 2006-09
Page 3

provided by law for holding municipal elections pursuant to the Elections Code.

Hi	Hi	Hi	Hi

Passed and Adopted by the City Council of the City of Orland at a regular meeting held this 15th day
of May , 2006, by the following vote:

AYES: Councilmembers Olney, Montague, Quame, Yalow and Barr
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

Paul Barr, Mayor

ATTEST:

Thomas N. Andrews, City Attorney