MEASURE TO BE VOTED ON

NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEASURE
ELECTION FOR THE CITY OF CLAYTON
AND NOTICE OF DATE FIXED FOR
SUBMITTING ARGUMENTS

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified
electors of the City of Clayton, located in the
County of Contra Costa, State of California,
that in accordance with law, an election will
be held on Tuesday, the 7th day of
November, 2006, for the purpose of
submitting for approval or rejection the
following measure, to be displayed on each
individual ballot to wit:

CITY OF CLAYTON  Community Facilities District 2006-1 (Downtown Park Operation and Maintenance District)	
Shall the Downtown Park’s annual operation and maintenance expenses be funded for a period of 10 years by the formation of a citywide Community Facilities District with an initial appropriations limit of $100,600 and annual levy of special taxes?	YES
	NO

Arguments for or against this measure may
be submitted to the City Clerk, 6000
Heritage Trail, Clayton, CA, no later than
5:00 P.M., August 14, 2006, which has
been determined by the elections official to
be a reasonable date based upon the time
necessary to prepare and print arguments.
No argument shall exceed 300 words in
length. Arguments must follow the following
format:

3. Statements must be typed or word
processed in standard upper and
lower case.

A Statement That Argument is True and
Correct, signed by the authors must
accompany all arguments; a sample of this
form is available by calling the City Clerk.

Pursuant to Section 9287 of the Elections
Code, one argument for and one argument
against this measure will be selected for
printing and distribution to the voters with
the sample ballot.

The elections official will provide an
opportunity for rebuttal arguments in
accordance with Section 9285 of the
Elections Code. Rebuttal arguments shall
not exceed 250 words and must be filed no
later than 5:00 P.M., August 21, 2006.

For more information on filing arguments,
call the City Clerk at (925) 673-7300.

The polls will be open Election Day between
7:00 A.M. and 8:00 P.M.

Dated: July 31, 2006

/s Rhonda Basore
City Clerk

NOTA:

Si desea obtener ia version en
Espanol de este aviso legal, puede
soiicitar una copia de la misma
llamando al Departamento de
Elecciones, (925) 646-4166.

1.	Arguments should be in block form,
however, bulleted lines will be
allowed.

2.	Your cooperation is requested in
limiting the use of italics, bold-
faced type, underlining and “ALL
CAPITAL LETTER” WORDS.

VILLAGE MARKET
PARKING

RESOLUTION NO. 24-2006

A RESOLUTION CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION
IN A COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT

CITY OF CLAYTON
Community Facilities District 2006-1
(Downtown Park Operation and Maintenance District)

WHEREAS, on this date, this Council adopted its Resolution No. 23-2006
entitled “A Resolution of Formation of a Community Facilities District, Authorizing the
Levy of Special Taxes Therein and Preliminarily Establishing an Appropriations Limit
Therefor” (the “Resolution of Formation”), ordering the formation of the City of Clayton
Community Facilities District No. 2006-1 (Downtown Park Operation and Maintenance
District) (the “CFD”), authorizing the levy of a special tax on real property within the CFD
and preliminarily establishing an appropriations limit for the CFD, all pursuant to the
Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, Chapter 2.5 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title
5, commencing with Section 53311, of the California Government Code (the “Act”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Resolution of Formation, the
propositions of the levy of the special tax and the establishment of the appropriations
limit shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the CFD at a special election as
required by the Act; and

WHEREAS, this Council desires that the special election be consolidated with
the statewide general election to occur on November 7, 2006 and that the proposition
be included on the ballot for the statewide general election which ballot is prepared by
the officer charged with the duty of conducting the statewide general election for the
County of Contra Costa, such official being the Registrar of Voters of the County of
Contra Costa (the “Election Official”); and

WHEREAS, Section 9280 of the Elections Code of the State of California
authorizes the filing of an impartial analysis and Sections 9281 to 9287 of said code
authorize the filing of written arguments for or against any ballot proposition, and, if
adopted by the City Council, rebuttal arguments.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of Clayton, California does hereby resolve
as follows:

1. Issue Submitted. Pursuant to Sections 53326 and 53325.7 of the Act, the
issue of the levy of said special tax and the establishment of the appropriations limit
shall be submitted to the qualified electors (as defined below) of the CFD at an election
called therefor as provided below. The question to be voted upon as it shall appear on
the ballot shall be as follows:

Shall the Downtown Park’s annual operation and
maintenance expenses be funded for a period of 10
years by the formation of a citywide Community
Facilities District with an initial appropriations limit of
$100,600 and an annual levy of special taxes?

5.	Filina of Primary and Rebuttal Arguments. The deadline for filing primary
arguments concerning the ballot measure is August 14, 2006. Provisions for Rebuttal
arguments have been previously adopted by the Council. Rebuttal arguments must be
filed by August 21,2006.

6.	Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect upon its adoption.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Clayton,
California at a regular public meeting thereof held the 20th day of June 2006 on the
following vote:

AYES:	Councilmember Laurence, Manning, Pierce, Vice Mayor Walcutt and

Mayor Shuey.

NOES:	None.

ABSENT:	None.

ABSTAIN:	None.

THE CITY COUNCIL OF CLAYTON, CA

DAVID T. SHUEY, MAYOR

ATTEST:

Rhonda i\. uqouic, vviiy uierk

Resolution No. 24-2006

3

June 20, 2006

RESOLUTION NO. 23-2006

A RESOLUTION OF FORMATION OF A COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT,
AUTHORIZING THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX THEREIN AND PRELIMINARILY
ESTABLISHING AN APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT THEREFOR

City of Clayton, California
Community Facilities District 2006-1
(Downtown Park Operation and Maintenance District)

WHEREAS, on May 16, 2006, this Council adopted Resolution No. 19-2006
entitled “A Resolution of Intention to Establish a Community Facilities District to Fund
the Annual Operation and Maintenance of a Downtown Park for a Time Period of Ten
Years, and to Authorize the Levy of Special Taxes Therein” (the “Resolution of
Intention”), stating its intention to form the City of Clayton Community Facilities District
No. 2006-1 (Downtown Park Operation and Maintenance District) (the “CFD"), pursuant
to the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, Chapter 2.5 of Part 1 of Division 2
of Title 5, commencing with Section 53311, of the California Government Code (the
“Act”); and

WHEREAS, the Resolution of Intention, incorporating a map of the proposed
boundaries of the CFD and stating the Services (as described herein) to be provided,
the estimated maximum cost of providing such Services, and the rate and method of
apportionment of the special tax to be levied within the CFD to pay for the Services (as
hereafter defined) with respect to the CFD, are each on file with the City Clerk and the
provisions thereof are incorporated herein by this reference as if fully set forth herein;
and

WHEREAS, on June 20, 2006, this City Council held a noticed public hearing as
required by the Act and the Resolution of Intention relative to the proposed formation of
the CFD; and

WHEREAS, at said hearing all interested persons desiring to be heard on all
matters pertaining to the formation of the CFD, the Services to be provided therein and
the levy of said special tax were heard and a full and fair hearing was held; and

WHEREAS, at said hearing evidence was presented to this Council on said
matters before it, including a report by the City Manager (the “Report”) as to the
Services to be provided through the CFD and the costs thereof, a copy of which is on
file with the City Clerk, and this Council at the conclusion of said hearing is fully advised
in the premises; and

WHEREAS, written protests with respect to the formation of the CFD, the
furnishing of specified types of Services and the rate and method of apportionment of
the special taxes have not been filed with the City Clerk of the City by fifty percent
(50%) or more of the registered voters residing within the territory of the CFD or
property owners of one-half (1/2) or more of the area of land within the CFD and not
exempt from the special tax; and

WHEREAS, the special tax proposed to be levied in the CFD to pay for the
proposed Services to be provided therein, as set forth in Exhibit A hereto, has not been

levy of the special tax shall attach to all nonexempt real property in the CFD and this
lien shall continue in force and effect until the special tax obligation ceases and the lien
canceled in accordance with law or until collection of the tax by the City ceases.

10.	Appropriations Limit. In accordance with Section 53325.7 of the Act, the
annual appropriations limit, as defined by subdivision (h) of Section 8 of Article XIII B of
the California Constitution, of the CFD is hereby preliminarily established at
$100,600.00 and said appropriations limit shall be submitted to the voters of the CFD
as hereafter provided. The proposition establishing said annual appropriations limit
shall become effective if approved by the qualified electors voting thereon and shall be
adjusted in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 53325.7 of the Act.

11.	Election. Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the proposition of the levy of
the special tax and the proposition of the establishment of the appropriations limit
specified above shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the CFD at an election
the time, place and conditions of which election shall be as specified by a separate
resolution of this Council.

12.	Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect upon its adoption.

******

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Clayton,
California at a regular public meeting thereof held the 20th day of June 2006, on the
following vote:

AYES:	Councilmember	Laurence,	Manning,	Pierce, Vice Mayor Walcutt and

Mayor Shuey.

NOES:	None.

ABSENT:	None.

ABSTAIN:	None.

ATTEST:

___(kWrvafr VL fen hJ&jL*

Rhonda K. Basore, City Clerk

THE CITY COUNCIL OF CLAYTON, CA
DAVID T. SHUEY, MAYOR "

EXHIBIT A

CITY OF CLAYTON
Community Facilities District 2006-1
(Downtown Park Operation and Maintenance District)

DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES TO BE FINANCED BY THE CFD

The Services that are proposed to be financed by the City of Clayton Community Facilities
District 2006-1 (Downtown Park Operation and Maintenance District) (the “CFD”) shall include
the attributable costs of operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of:

A. Downtown Park - which includes but is not limited to:

Costs of operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of an approximate 1-acre public
park (APN 119-015-005,006) abutting the western edge of (old) Marsh Creek Road between
Main and Center Streets located in Town Center Clayton.

Definition

“Costs of Operation, Maintenance, Repair and Replacement” of the foregoing public park
improvements means the furnishing of services and materials for the ordinary and usual
operation, maintenance and care of a downtown public park with its appurtenant facilities, public
restroom, gazebo, playground equipment and improvements, including repair, removal or
replacement of all or part of any landscaping or turf or appurtenant facilities providing for the
life, growth, health and beauty of the landscaping, including cultivation, irrigation, trimming,
pruning, spraying, fertilizing and treating for disease or injury; the removal of trimmings,
rubbish, debris, litter and other solid wastes; and the eradication of landscape pests, including but
not limited to vermin and rodents, ground squirrels, gophers, and moles.

“Maintenance” also means the furnishing of water for public health purposes and irrigation of the
park turf, trees and landscaping, and the supply of electricity to operate the attendant irrigation
systems, park lights and electrical outlets. In addition, allowable expenses include the County’s
cost to levy and collect the District’s assessment through the annual property tax bill, the City’s
shared equipment and facilities charges, City prorated overhead charges to administer and
manage the District, and District reserve funds for capital replacements, vandalism and major
repairs.

The foregoing services shall be provided through and by the City of Clayton, either with its own
labor forces or by contract with third parties, or any combination thereof, as determined solely by
the City of Clayton.

EXHIBIT B

CITY OF CLAYTON
Community Facilities District 2006-1
(Downtown Park Operation and Maintenance District)

RATE AND METHOD OF LEVY OF SPECIAL TAX

A special tax will be levied annually on each taxable parcel of land not defined below as an
“Exempt Parcel” within the Community Facilities District 2006-1 (Downtown Park Operation
and Maintenance District) (the “CFD”) and collected in the same manner as ordinary ad-valorem
property taxes or in such manner as the City of Clayton City Council or its designee shall
determine, including City-originated billing of the affected property owners.

Definitions

Taxable Parcels:

Exempt Parcels:

Residential Parcels:

Downtown Core Parcels:

Parcels of land within the boundaries of the CFD that are not
included in the “Exempt Parcel” category listed below.

Parcels of land owned by a public school district, and parcels
of land owned by the City of Clayton or the Clayton
Redevelopment Agency outside the boundaries of the defined
Downtown Core area (see map, Attachment 1 of Exhibit B).

Taxable Parcels of land in the District that are classified in the
City of Clayton General Plan as either single-family, multi-
family or rural estate residential parcels.

Taxable Parcels within the Downtown Core area that are not
classified as “Residential Parcels”.

Other Commercial Parcels:	Taxable	Parcels	outside the boundaries of the Downtown Core

area that are not classified as “Residential Parcels”,
“Recreational Open Space Parcels” or “Multi-Family
Residential Care Facilities”.

Recreational Open Space
Parcels:

Taxable Parcels classified as “Private Golf Course” in the City
of Clayton General Plan.

Multi-Family Residential
Care Facilities Parcels:

Taxable Parcels having institutional or congregate care
residential units within a facility with an on-site manager.

Special Tax:	The	special	tax	allowed	to	be	levied	on	property	within	the

CFD, calculated pursuant to this Rate and Method of
Apportionment of Special Tax.

B-l

Special Tax Formula	
A. Residential Parcels:	An annual special tax will be levied on all Residential Parcels, as defined above, at the per parcel tax rate shown below for each fiscal year 2007-2008 through 2016-2017:  Residential Parcel Annual Special Tax Rate: $16.39 per parcel.
B. Downtown Core Parcels:	An annual special tax will be levied on all non-Residential Parcels within the Downtown Core area (see map. Attachment 1), at the per 14-acre or fraction thereof parcel rate shown below for each fiscal year 2007-2008 through 2016-2017:  Downtown Core Parcel Annual Special Tax Rate: $221.05 per 14-acre or fraction thereof parcel size as shown on the County tax roll.
C. Other Commercial Parcels:	An annual special tax will be levied on all non-Residential Parcels outside the Downtown Core area, as defined above, at the per 14-acre or fraction thereof parcel rate shown below for each fiscal year 2007-2008 through 2016-2017:  Other Commercial Parcel Annual Special Tax Rate: $96.92 per 14-acre or fraction thereof parcel size as shown on the County tax roll.
D. Recreational Open Space Parcels:	An annual special tax will be levied on all Private Golf Course Parcels, as defined above, at the per 14-acre or fraction thereof parcel rate shown below for each fiscal year 2007-2008 through 2016-2017:  Recreational Open Space Parcel Annual Special Tax Rate: $48.46 per 14-acre or fraction thereof parcel size as shown on the County tax roll.
E. Multi-Family Residential Care Facilities Parcels:	An annual special tax will be levied on all Multi-Family Residential Care Facilities Parcels, as defined above, at the per 14-acre or fraction thereof parcel rate shown below for each fiscal year 2007-2008 through 2016-2017:  Multi-Family Residential Care Facilities Parcel Annual Special Tax Rate: $50.92 per 14-acre or fraction thereof parcel size as shown on the County tax roll.

B-2

The special tax will be levied annually for a period of ten (10) years commencing in fiscal year
2007-2008 (July - June) through and including fiscal year 2016-2017. After the ten (10) year
duration has expired the special tax may no longer be levied or collected unless extended
pursuant to applicable laws, except that a special tax that was lawfully levied in or before the
final tax year and that remains delinquent may be collected in subsequent years.

Special Tax Escalator Factor

In fiscal years 2008-2009 through 2016-2017, each special annual tax rate may be increased
annually by the Clayton City Council in an amount not to exceed the most recent full annual
adjustment (April to April) in the Consumer Price Index - All Urban Consumers, San Francisco-
Oakland-San Jose, CA Area (Base Period 1982-84 = 100). This escalator factor is applicable if
determined by the City to be necessary due to expected or actual increases in the operational,
maintenance, repair and replacement expenses funded by the CFD. In no event shall each annual
special tax rate in any fiscal year increase by more than three percent (3%) over the previous
year.

Attachment 1: Map of Downtown Core area [1 pg.]

Received

AUG 1 5 2006

City of Clayton

received

Oo AUG I U PH 12: 09

CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
ELECTIONS

CITY'S ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE

Following advertised public hearing on June 20, 2006, the City Council adopted
Resolution No. 23-2006 establishing the Clayton Community Facilities District 2006-1 (CFD),
the boundaries of which encompass the entire City of Clayton. The purpose of the CFD is to pay
for the operation and maintenance of a citizen-designed public park in the Downtown on City-
owned property. The types of public services proposed to be provided by the CFD are itemized
in Exhibit "A" to the Resolution. They include the operation, maintenance, repair and
replacement of depreciated assets for the Downtown Park and its related facilities, equipment
and improvements.

In order to pay for these costs and related expenses a special tax is proposed to be levied
annually in the following amounts:

A.	Residential Parcels:	$ 16.39 per parcel.
B.	Downtown Core Parcels:	$ 221.05 per 'A acre or fraction thereof.
C.	Other Commercial Parcels: Outside Downtown Core	$ 96.92 per A acre or fraction thereof.
D.	Recreational Open Space Parcels (Private Golf Course):	$ 48.46 per A acre or fraction thereof.
E.	Multi-Family Residential Care Facilities Parcels:	$ 50.92 per A acre or fraction thereof.

Further details regarding the above tax rates are set forth in Exhibit "B" to Resolution 23-

2006.

Each special tax rate may be increased annually by the City Council in an amount not to
exceed the most recent full annual adjustment (April to April of the Consumer Price Index-All
Urban Consumers (CPI), San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, California area, base period 1982-84
equals 100). The determination to apply any CPI adjustment is made by the City Council at a
public meeting. The annual increase may not exceed 3% over the previous year's rate and each
rate could not be considered for an increase until Fiscal Year 2008-2009.

The special tax will be levied annually for a period of 10 years commencing with fiscal
year 2007-2008 to and including fiscal year 2016-2017 and then will expire.

Resolution No. 24-2006 was adopted by the City Council on June 20, 2006 proposing an
annual appropriations limit of $100,600.00 (first year budget). The Resolution also called for a
special election to be held on November 7, 2006 to determine whether the special tax shall be
levied, and if the appropriations limit for the District (first year budget) shall be as stated above.

Passage of the special tax requires a favorable vote of two-thirds of the votes cast on the
measure.

Copies of all relevant reports, a boundary map of the CFD, and Council resolutions
concerning the formation of the CFD are available for review in the office of the City Clerk
(925-673-7300).

This analysis was prepared as an impartial analysis of the measure as required by
California Government Code Section 53327 and Elections Code Section 9280.

J. Daniel Adams

Dated: August 2006

J. Daniel Adams
Clayton City Attorney

Argument in Support of Measure O

In 2000, Clayton voters supported developing a central Downtown Park near the Post
Office between Main and Center Streets. The park will be a community focal point,
drawing people to existing businesses and will help to revitalize our historic town center.

Citizen’s committees have surveyed residents, researched other parks, and designed
simple plans including shade trees, lawn play areas, picnic tables, restrooms, walking
paths and a children’s play area. In addition, the CBCA (Clayton Business & Community
Association) has pledged funds to build a large gazebo for community use.

Using monies that can only be used for one-time capital improvements and a State Parks
grant, the city has raised the funds to build the Downtown Park.

However, there is no money available in Clayton’s General Fund to finance on-going
park maintenance without jeopardizing our balanced city budget and critical city services.

The City Council has clearly stated it will not build the park unless there are dedicated
funds to operate and maintain it.

Measure O establishes a dedicated operation and maintenance fund exclusively for the
Downtown Park that would not compete with other city priorities or be subject to raids by
the State.

Measure O provides that one third of the annual operation and maintenance cost will be
paid by Clayton businesses and the remaining two-thirds by residents.

Each residential parcel will pay only $16.39 per year to maintain the Downtown Park.
The tax is subject to a maximum 3% annual increase tied to the Consumer Price Index
and will expire in ten years.

Clayton residents voted for a Downtown Park. To have it, we must vote to pay for its
operation and maintenance or it will not be built.

Please vote Yes on Measure O.

Signatures

Edward A. Moresi, Owner Ed’ Mudville Grill Inc.
Lester L. Ipsen, Founder Skipolini’s Pizza
Randell T. Gardner, Clayton Dentist
Robert W. Hoyer, First Mayor of Clayton
John Rubiales, President, CBCA

City of Clayton Measure O- Arguments Against

The City of Clayton did not receive any Arguments Against
for Measures 0.

DOWNTOWN PARK INITIAL BUDGET

* OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE *

A.	ANNUAL O&M BUDGET

FIELD LABOR	$	37,962

CONTRACT SERVICES (janitorial; pest control; tree trimming) $	17,300

UTILITIES (water and electricity)	$	12,500

LANDSCAPE SUPPLIES	$	5,500

CAPITAL EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND	$	2.700

O&M SUB-TOTAL:	$	75,962

B.	ASSETS REPLACEMENT & RESERVE FUNDS

1.	PARK APPARATUS/

INFRASTRUCTURE REPLACEMENT FUND	$	13,858

2.	RESERVE FUND (e.g. vandalism; repairs; unexpected costs) $	5,000

ASSETS & RESERVES SUB-TOTAL:	$	18,858

C.	DISTRICT ADMINISTRATION/OVERHEAD (5.7%)	$	5.780

INITIAL ANNUAL BUDGET:

$100,600