4

CITY OF SAN LUIS OBISPO
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Y-06

ORDINANCE NO. 1495 (2006 Series)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAN LUIS OBISPO
ADDING CHAPTER 3.15 TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE, “ESSENTIAL
SERVICES TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX,” TO SUNSET
IN EIGHT YEARS, WITH CITIZEN OVERSIGHT AND INDEPENDENT
ANNUAL FINANCIAL AUDITS, TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, the City of San Luis Obispo is facing significant fiscal
challenges in providing essential community services such as
neighborhood street paving and pothole repair, traffic congestion relief,
police protection, fire and paramedic services, flood protection, senior
citizen services and facilities, neighborhood code enforcement, open
space preservation and other vital general purpose services; and

WHEREAS, this is largely due to State budget takeaways, which
have cost the City more than $22 million over the last 15 years, and
now costs the City $3 million each and every year; and

WHEREAS, Proposition 1A, adopted by the voters' of California in
November 2004, helps protect the City from additional State takeaways
in the future, it does not restore any of the past or current State
takeaways; and as such, the City continues to lose $3 million each and
every year in State budget takeaways, and this is going to be the case
indefinitely into the future; and

WHEREAS, in responsibly balancing its budget, the City has been
forced to cut back significantly on essential community services, such
as reducing overall infrastructure maintenance by 50%; cutting street
paving and pothole repair by 67% (which meant eliminating the
neighborhood street paving and pothole repair program); reducing
sworn police positions (including traffic enforcement); removing virtually
all City funding for flood protection or storm drain maintenance projects;
discontinuing City funding for open space preservation (which has been
successful in the past in leveraging over $7 million in grants and other
outside funding sources); and cutting other vital general purpose
services; and

WHEREAS, while it has been prudent to do so in the past as a
stop-gap measure, the City cannot continue to use its reserves in
mitigating even deeper cuts to essential services; and

WHEREAS, new revenues will be needed in order to restore cuts
in essential services and provide vital general purpose services in the
future; and

WHEREAS, a City-adopted sales tax is an appropriate way of
adding new funds, since: the current sales tax rate in the City is the
lowest in the State, and as such, even with an increase of Vfe-cent, it will
be equal to or lower than the rate paid by 85% of the State’s residents;
it is broad-based and does not single-out any one type of consumer,
business or industry; basic commodities and services like housing, food
and prescription drugs are exempt from sales taxes; and over 50% of
the proceeds will be paid by non-residents.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council and the
Voters of the City of San Luis Obispo as follows:

SECTION 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the “City
of San Luis Obispo Essential Services Transactions (Sales) and Use
Tax Ordinance." The City of San Luis Obispo hereinafter shall be called
the “City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated
territory of the City.

SECTION 2. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve
the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To protect and maintain essential services - such as
neighborhood street paving and pothole repair; traffic congestion relief;
public safety, including restoring eliminated traffic patrol, Fire Marshal
and fire/paramedic training positions; flood protection; senior citizen
services and facilities; neighborhood code enforcement; open space
preservation; and other vital general purpose services - by establishing
a general purpose retail transactions and use tax of one-half percent in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which authorizes the City to adopt this
general purpose tax ordinance, which shall be operative if two-thirds of
the Council and a majority vote of the electors voting on the measure,
vote to approve the establishment of this new general purpose revenue
source at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law
of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent
with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden
of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions
of this ordinance.

SECTION 3. EIGHT-YEAR SUNSET. The authority to levy the
tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire eight years from the
operative date of this ordinance, unless extended by the voters.

SECTION 4. FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS:
CITIZEN OVERSIGHT AND INDEPENDENT ANNUAL FINANCIAL
AUDITS. Along with the City's ongoing commitment to citizen
involvement as a fundamental principle of good government, specific
citizen oversight and fiscal accountability provisions are hereby
established as follows:

A.	Independent Annual Financial Audit. The amount
generated by this new general purpose revenue source and how it was
used shall be included in the annual audit of the City’s financial
operations by an independent certified public accountant.

B.	Integration of the Use of Funds into the City’s Budget
and Goal-Setting Process. The estimated revenue and proposed use
of funds generated by this measure shall be an integral part of the City's
budget and goal setting process, and significant opportunities will be
provided for meaningful participation by citizens in determining priority
uses of these funds.

C.	Annual Community Report. A written report will be
provided annually to every household in the community detailing how
much revenue is being generated by the measure and how funds
are being spent.

D.	Annual Citizen Oversight Meeting. An invitation will be
extended each year to the entire community inviting them to participate
in a forum to review and discuss the use of the revenue generated by
this measure. City staff will also be available to meet with any group
that requests a specific briefing with their members to discuss and
answer questions about the revenues generated by the measure and
their us6s

SECTIONS. TRANSACTIONS (SALES1 TAX RATE. For the

privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of 0.5% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the
operative date of this ordinance.

PR-1040-1

SECTION 6. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed
on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative
date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of 0.5% of the sales price of the property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

SECTION 7. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days
after the adoption of this ordinance: April 1,2007.

SECTION 8. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative
date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not
have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract.

SECTION 9. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this
ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier
for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges' are subject to
the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules
and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

SECTION 10. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

SECTION 11. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW
AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing
the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California,
where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect
to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property, which
would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that
code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B. The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and
in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

SECTION 12. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a sellers permit has
been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by
this ordinance.

SECTION 13. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS. The following
transaction shall be exempted and excluded:

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions
tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by
the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant
to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States,
or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is
shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by
delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the
retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this
ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible
personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been
subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions
and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is
in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

PR-1040-2

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a
continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which
the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged
in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the
retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also
include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel or aircraft at an
address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions
tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1,6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

SECTION 14. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to
the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part

1.7	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
ordinance.

SECTION 15. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or
the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required
to bo collected

SECTION 16. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance
or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 17. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the
levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall
take effect immediately.

SECTION 18. CODIFICATION. Upon adoption of this Ordinance
by the voters, the City Clerk, in consultation with the City Attorney, is
hereby authorized and directed to codify this Ordinance in the City’s
Municipal Code.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Y-06

If approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure,
Measure Y-06 will authorize an additional '/2-cent sales tax within the
City of San Luis Obispo. This '/2-cent sales tax would be a “general-
purpose tax,” meaning that the revenue raised from the tax would go
into the City's general fund and could be used for any municipal
governmental purpose. Municipal governmental purposes encompass
street paving, traffic congestion relief, police protection, fire and
paramedic services, flood protection, senior citizen services, open
space preservation, and other governmental functions and services.
The City would not be bound to use these tax monies for any special
purpose or for any particular projects, facilities or programs.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7290
authorizes the City of San Luis Obispo to levy a transactions and use
tax (sales tax) at a 0.5 percent ('/2-cent) rate so long as the tax is
approved by two-thirds of the City Council and a majority of the voters
voting in an election on that issue. The City Council unanimously
approved this tax on August 1, 2006. If approved by the voters, the
Measure Y-06 sales tax would become effective on April 1,2007.

This '/2-cent sales tax would be paid in addition to current
sales taxes. The current sales tax within the City (including state and
local sales taxes) is 7.25 percent. If Measure Y-06 is approved by the
voters, the total sales tax would be 7.75 percent. This '/2-cent sales tax
would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
existing sales taxes.

Measure Y-06 contains the following fiscal accountability
provisions to assist citizens in assessing if the additional sales tax
revenues have been used in meeting community priorities: 1) the
amount generated by the new revenue source and how it was used
shall be included in the annual audit of the City’s financial operations by
an independent certified public accountant; 2) the estimated revenue
and proposed use of funds generated by this measure shall be a part of
the City’s budget and goal setting process, which provides for
participation by citizens in determining priority uses of these funds; 3)
an annual written report will be provided to every household in the City
explaining how much revenue is being generated by the measure and
how funds are being spent; and 4) a citizen oversight meeting will be
scheduled annually to allow for review and discussion of the use of
revenue generated by this measure.

The '/>-cent sales tax would sunset and be repealed in eight
years, and could not be collected after that time unless a majority of the
voters voting in an election on that issue approves an extension or re-
authorization of the tax.

Respectfully submitted,

s/ Jonathan Lowell
City Attorney

PR-1040-3

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y-06

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Y-06

Keep San Luis Obispo our special place. For the future of SLO,
vote YES ON Y.

The State has taken away $22-million from SLO during the past 15
years and continues to take $3-mi!lion every year to balance its budget.
These takeaways have forced SLO to cut essential services.

•	YES ON Y gives San Luis Obispo local control - all funds
generated will remain here.

•	YES ON Y restores essential neighborhood services, such as
street paving and pothole repair.

•	YES ON Y helps relieve traffic congestion.

•	YES ON Y keeps our community safe by restoring police and fire
positions that had to be cut.

•	YES ON Y provides urgently needed money for flood protection
and storm drain repair.

•	YES ON Y ensures essential programs and facilities for our
growing senior population.

•	YES ON Y allows the City to restore funding for open space
protection and acquisition, a program that has been all but
eliminated in recent years.

The sales tax rate in SLO Is currently at the lowest level in the
state. Even with this minor increase, our rate will be the same or lower
than that paid bv 85% of the state’s residents.

•	YES ON Y is a low cost, high impact solution. Non-residents and
tourists will pav over half. Santa Maria has been at this rate for
over 16 years.

•	YES on Y has strong public safeguards to ensure that funds will be
spent as residents prefer: independent audits, citizen oversight,
including yearly reports to every household, and an 8-year “sunset”
provision so the Measure will go back to voters for reauthorization.
More retail development won’t fix the problem. It would take NINE

Costco’s to generate the same amount of revenue.

SLO’s belt is simply out of notches. Please join us in protecting
SLO’s future. Vote YES ON Y.

s/ Mary Verdin, Chair, Chamber of Commerce
s/ Karen Merriam, Chair, Santa Lucia Chapter Sierra Club
s/ Pierre Rademaker, Past President, SLO Downtown Association
s/ Agatha Reardon, Vice President, SLO Senior Citizens Center
s/ Sandi Sigurdson, Executive Director, SLO Symphony

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y-06

Proponents paint an appealing picture of how San Luis Obispo will
use Measure Y revenues.

But “promises" about use of Measure Y funds are unenforceable.
There's no requirement Measure Y revenues be used only for "essential
services." By law, this money can be used for any "general purpose"
the City wishes, and cannot be earmarked.

Voters have every right to be skeptical. For example, our General
Plan says development pays its own way, yet San Luis Obispo
continues to offer developers financial subsidy.

•	Last year, voters rejected a multimillion dollar sales tax rebate the
City had offered Marketplace developers.

•	Yet the same day the City Council placed Measure Y on the ballot,
it also authorized pursuing another subsidized private development
(Garden Street Terraces). Its features include:

•	$2.4 million cash advanced to the developer by the City.

•	Valuing a City parking lot being transferred to the developer at
$1.5 million instead of its $5 million appraised value.

•	Rebate of most new property tax from the development for 30
years.

Basic resident services should be San Luis Obispo's first priority.
Please send a message to City Hall to put first things first.
Please vote no on Measure Y.

s/ Peg Pinard, Former Mayor/Former County Supervisor
s/ Richard Schmidt, Former Planning Commissioner

Is it true San Luis Obispo cannot provide basic citizen services
without raising our sales tax?

With years of service inside City government, we are dubious. We
see nonessential spending. We believe San Luis Obispo’s “money
problem” is more about priorities than finances. Here’s why.

Traditionally, city government exists to provide residents with
important things we cannot provide ourselves. In San Luis Obispo,
these “basic services” include utilities, streets, parks, open space
preservation, flood control, police and fire service. These are the
fundamental reasons we have a City government.

Providing basic services to residents must come first. In San Luis
Obispo, however, the City frequently considers its “customers” to be
developers and a few vested commercial interests. “Service” means
making them happy. Government has come to mean deals and
subsidies for developers, endless costly rewriting of regulations to
weaken popular environmental and neighborhood protections,
promoting development many citizens don’t want, and well-paid staff to
support and advocate for developers. These items now compete
financially with providing basic citizen services.

San Luis Obispo must not regard basic citizen services as a
sideline - as things residents should pay extra for if they really want
them - rather than its topmost priority.

We believe San Luis Obispo has distorted spending priorities. We
believe our City needs to get back to basics - to make residents its
“customers,” and provide services for residents first. Please join us in
sending this message to City Hall.

Please vote no on Measure Y.
s/ Peg Pinard, Former Mayor/Former County Supervisor
s/ Richard Schmidt, Former Planning Commissioner

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Y-06

In 2005 San Luis Obispo convened an independent ad hoc citizen’s
advisory committee to assess the financial condition of the city. The
citizen’s committee found that on-going financial raids from politicians in
Sacramento have significantly affected San Luis Obispo. These raids
have accounted for losses of $22 million over the last decade resulting
in:

*	service reductions in every city department,

*	a 67% reduction in street paving and road maintenance

*	elimination of 25 full time positions including sworn police officers

*	Almost total depletion of Open Space protection fund

Despite these hardships, San Luis Obispo’s budget is extremely well
managed. The city routinely receives national and state awards for
financial management and reporting. After reviewing a detailed survey
comparing similar cities, a Tribune headline concluded: SLO Often
Does More, Spends Less Than Other Cities.

Unfortunately, we are at a point where our quality of life will deteriorate
with deeper cuts. A modest revenue increase with strict accountability
provisions is the most sensible means by which to maintain San Luis
Obispo’s quality of life and services.

Measure Y includes the following taxpayer protections:

1.	An independent annual financial audit to be made available to the
public;

2.	An annual community report mailed to every SLO residence;

3.	An annual citizen oversight meeting;

4.	An eight year “sunset” provision requiring that SLO residents
evaluate and affirm this additional revenue by a vote of the people.

Protect and preserve the “SLO Life.” Vote YES on Measure Y.

s/ Mary Verdin, Chair, Chamber of Commerce
s/ Karen Merriam, Chair, Santa Lucia Chapter Sierra Club
s/ Pierre Rademaker, Past President, SLO Downtown Association
s/ Amy Kardel, Ad Hoc Citizen’s Advisory Committee Member
si Ken Schwartz, former Mayor of San Luis Obispo, Ad Hoc Citizen’s
Advisory Committee Member

PR-1040-4