IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY TOWN ATTORNEY
OF MEASURES

California law provides that a city may levy a Transactions and
Use Tax on retail transactions for general purposes if the ordinance
imposing the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members
of the city council and the tax is approved by a majority vote of the
qualified voters of the city voting in an election on the issue.

The Town of Mammoth Lakes ("Town”) is a general law city
empowered by state law to impose a Transactions and Use Tax. The
Town Council approved the ordinance proposing to impose a
Transactions and Use Tax by more than a two-thirds vote of all of
its members, and has voted to place the issue before the voters.

The proposed Transactions and Use Tax would be imposed upon
retail transactions pursuant to Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9
of Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxations Code at the
rate of one-half of one-percent (0.5%). The ordinance imposing the
tax incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales Use Tax Law
of the State of California insofar as the provisions are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. The tax
will be administered by the California State Board of Equalization which
will impose a small administrative fee to cover the costs of its services.

If Measure "S” passes, a Transactions and Use Tax of one-half
of one percent (0.5%) will be imposed on retail transactions. Revenue
generated by the Transactions and Use Tax will be placed in the
general fund and will be used for general governmental purposes.

If Measure "S” fails, the proposed Transactions and Use Tax will
not be imposed.

A "Yes” vote is a vote to impose a Transactions and Use Tax at
the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) on retail transactions.
Revenue resulting from this tax will be placed in the general fund and
will be used for both existing and future Town programs and services.

A “No” vote is a vote not to impose such Transactions and Use
Tax upon retail transactions. If Measure “S” fails the revenue which
would otherwise have been generated will not be available for either
existing or future Town programs or services.

Dated: March 1, 2006

si Peter E. Tracy

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY TOWN ATTORNEY
OF MEASURET

Under existing law, the Town of Mammoth Lakes ("Town") imposes
a Transient Occupancy Tax- commonly called a "Bed Tax" - at the
rate of twelve percent (12%). However, one percentage point of
Transient Occupancy Tax, which was approved by the voters as part
of Measure 96-A, sunsets on June 30,2011. Thereafter, the Transient
Occupancy Tax will be imposed at the rate of eleven percent (11%).

California law provides that taxes may not be extended or
increased without a vote of the electorate. In order to raise revenue
to fund both existing and future Town programs and services, the
Town Council voted to place the issue of increasing the Transient
Occupancy Tax rate before the electorate.

If Measure ”T" passes, the Transient Occupancy Tax will be
imposed at the rate of thirteen percent (13%) without sunset
commencing October 1,2006. The additional Occupancy Tax revenue
will be placed in the general fund and will be used for general
governmental purposes.

If Measure "T" fails, the Transient Occupancy Tax will continue
to be imposed at the rate of twelve percent (12%) until June 30,
2011; thereafter the Transient Occupancy Tax will be imposed at the
rate of eleven percent (11%).

A "Yes” vote is a vote to impose the Transient Occupancy Tax at
the rate of thirteen percent (13%). Additional revenue resulting from
this tax rate will be placed in the general fund and will be used for
both existing and future Town programs and services.

A “No” vote is a vote not to impose the Transient Occupancy Tax
at the rate of thirteen percent (13%), but rather to continue to impose
the Transient Occupancy Tax at the present rate of twelve percent
(12%) until June 30, 2011 at which time the Transient Occupancy
Tax rate will revert to eleven percent (11%). If Measure “T” fails the
additional increased revenue which would otherwise have been
generated will not be available for either existing or future Town
programs or services.

Dated: March 1, 2006

si Peter E. Tracy
Town Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURES S & T

The Community Services Initiative is just that, an initiative that provides services to our community: library, childcare, housing, transportation,
and an emergency dispatch and operation center. It is about strengthening the social contract amongst and between friends and neighbors
and our public institutions that provide services for residents and visitors.

For some in our community, the idea of a social contract has become quaint. For the majority of the Town Council and many committed
community members, Mammoth’s social contract is alive and well. We see it in the hundreds of volunteers, who give their time freely to
clubs, service organizations, after school programs, and in the spring the people who participate in the town cleanup. We see it in the
simple courtesy of holding the door open for someone carrying a package out of the post office. We even see it in our elected officials who
struggle with policy decisions which shape our future.

The social contract is also participatory. It allows us to debate and disagree, to seek solutions and consensus, to struggle with the shape
of our future—the General Plan Update, public access to the Sherwins, the livability of our town, reinvesting in ourselves.

If passed by the voters, the Community Services Initiative will enhance our social contract in that it broadly addresses a number of needs
and concerns, which have been raised by the community. It also reaffirms both the old and new commitments, which hold us together in
the good and bad times.

Yes, the Community Service Initiative is about taxes, which visitors will mostly pay, but it is also about the heart. It reaches beyond
“What's in it for me?” to “What's in it for the betterment of the Community?” Please vote “Yes” on Measure “S” and “T" for a sustainable future.
si Rick Wood, Mayor
s/ Tony Barrett, Mayor Pro Tem
si John Eastman, Councilmember
si Skip Harvey, Councilmember
si Kirk Stapp, Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THESE MEASURES WAS SUBMITTED

26-501

26501