PAGE

10

CITY

SAN MARINO CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

A Shall Ordinance No. 0-08-1187 continuing the Special Public Safety Tax for police, paramedic and fire services be adopted?	236 yes-*
	237 no-kd
A Shall Ordinance No. 0-06-1188 continuing the City's Utility User Tax be \J| adopted?	238 YiS^o
	239 no-kd
END OF BALLOT	

10-028E

LA 231-015

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

This ballot measure extends for five years the City of San Marino Public Safety
Tax for paramedic, police and fire protection services. The Public Safety Tax is a
tax on each parcel of real property in the City and is authorized under the
authority of Section 4 of Article X1II-A of the California Constitution. As a
special tax, the proceeds can only be used for paramedic, police and fire
protection services. The City may not use the funds for any other purpose.

Approval of the measure will extend the Public Safety Tax for a period of five
years. The tax would expire at that time unless extended by the voters.

The ordinance contains maximum rates for each year that can be exceeded only
if the increase is approved by the voters. The measure contains credits for parcels
purchased subsequent to March 1, 1975, to partially compensate the higher
property tax persons purchasing property subsequent to that date are paying
pursuant to the reassessment revisions of “Proposition 13.” The measure also
contains a credit for parcels owned by senior citizens whose income does not
exceed levels the City Council can establish from time to time.

As a special tax, the measure requires a two-thirds vote of the persons voting at
the election. A yes vote on Measure O extends the existing Public Safety Special
Tax and assessment amounts for four years. A no vote would eliminate the
Public Safety Special Tax at the end of the current fiscal year.

STEVEN L. DORSEY

City Attorney, City of San Marino

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure O. If you desire a copy
of the Ordinance pertaining to Measure O, please call the San Marino City
Clerk’s Office at (626) 300-0705 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PR-9000964

LA 231-026

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

Ballot Measure O renews San Marino’s current assessment for police, fire and
paramedic services, San Marino residents have previously approved these public
safety assessments six times. The current assessment expires in 2007 unless
renewed by your vote. Measure O will not change the existing formula for our
current public safety assessment; it simply continues our support at the same
levels.

If Measure O is not passed by 66 - 2/3% of San Marino Voters, we will lose
approximately 31% fiscal year 2006 - 07 of the police budget, and 28% fiscal year
2006 - 07 of the fire/paramedic budget. We need and must maintain our present

level of safety services.

Every penny of this assessment will remain right in San Marino to ensure our
safety and protect our property and property values. It is local control of funds
raised in San Marino for San Marino.

The City Council, various citizen committees and other independent advisors
have investigated ways to obtain additional funds and to reduce city
expenditures. It has been universally concluded there is no current practical
alternative other than the continuation of our present assessments. We certainly
don’t want to change the safe residential character of our city and the peace of
mind that our outstanding police, fire and paramedic protection provides.

The City must maintain, by law and by prudence, required reserves for
emergencies, self insurance and to ensure minimum working capital to avoid
costly borrowing. The City does have the required reserve in its bank account,
but has no “surplus” in its budget beyond that.

Vote YES on Measure O.

DAVID T. SWARTS

Co-Chair, Committee of San Marino Residents For Passage of
Measures G and O

BENJAMIN B. SALVATY

Co-Chair, Committee of San Marino Residents For Passage of
Measures G and O

PR-900096-2

LA 231-027

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

Defeat this Public Safety Tax and send the big spenders a message. Here are a
few points to consider.

The City double dips with paramedic service; first through this Tax, and again if
you have the misfortune to use the service. Last year this gave the City more than
an additional $350,000 in revenue. 59.5% of the Tax revenue will go to police,
and 40.5% to fire/paramedics.

The balance of their respective budgets come from the City’s General Fund. If
this Measure is defeated, all of their operating funds must come from the
General Fund, and spending cuts must be made elsewhere.

It is true that various groups are seeking new sources of revenue.

It is false that expenditures cannot be reduced. The investigating groups just do
not want to slay any sacred cows.

The City is not self insured. The City pays a premium into an insurance pool
composed of many government entities. The City has lost some expensive claims,
the most recent, due to Police errors.

Is the City concerned with working capital and reserves (see Utility Tax
Rebuttal)? The City is seeking many alternatives to fund their crazy library
scheme to avoid going to the voters for bond funds.

They are scared. We taxpayers were saddled with nearly $110 million in bond
debt service for the schools reconstruction, which arguably was one of the
costliest and worst mismanaged fiascos in municipal history.

The SM schools will run a new parcel tax at you in March 2007.

GENE G. RUCKH

Management Consultant & S.M. Resident

PR-900096-3

LA 231-028

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

Arguably, the primary function of government is public safety. That is why, when
voters approved Prop 13 to stop runaway property taxes, one answer from the
Legislature was to institute a parcel tax in the guise of a Public Safety Tax.

Every dollar of public safety tax collected, frees a dollar of General Fund money
previously allocated to public safety, thus permitting an expansion in overall
spending. In effect, this is a giant shell game to get more revenue. SM has also
built a 5% annual escalator into this Measure until its next sunset in 2012.

The irony here is, that even with record tax collections feeding revenue growth,
the SM City Council is engaged in record spending, while at the same time
decimating long time built up cash reserves which will soon be exhausted.

Residents are asked to fund lucrative employee salary and benefits programs.
Recently a $9 million shortfall in pension costs was levied on the City which has
not yet been funded and will likely require bonding. You may not be aware of
this? Council is also attempting to build a luxurious new library instead of
modernizing and adding to the existing facility. Council also aspires to build a
luxurious new Community Center. Proponents are trying to do all of this by
backdoor spending methods without going to a vote of the people. This will all
come home to bite the SM taxpayer.

Do you approve of these shenanigans?? Meanwhile our City’s infrastructure
continues to suffer for lack of adequate funding for maintenance and upgrade.

Stop the Council’s profligacy . . . vote no and force a retrenchment to focus on
the essentials. Your apathy only encourages a continuation of past practices.

GENE G. RIJCKH

Management Consultant & S.M. Resident

PR-900096-4

LA 231-029

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

We are fortunate in San Marino to have our own police department and fire
department. The contract cities, i.e., those cities who contract with the County of
Los Angeles for their police and fire services, have been advised that the cost for
these services will be increased by 8% next year. In the last 6 years our City has
increased the Public Safety Assessment only once - by 5%. In the last two years,
the fire department has reorganized through natural attrition to reduce
personnel costs without compromising the quality service our residents have long
enjoyed.

San Marino is one of the only about 7 jurisdictions (out of 30 fire departments in
LA County) that are able to administer Advanced Life Support without the delay
of contacting a local hospital to administer meds due to the specialized training
and oversight that are unmatched by other departments.

Cognizant of the rise in public employee retirement costs, the City Council has
recently negotiated a two-tiered retirement system. This means that new
employees enjoy reduced, but generous retirement benefits. This is but one
example of our city’s responsible management of its revenues and costs.

San Marino is one of the safest cities in Southern California and this is due to the
excellent Public Safety services (police, fire and paramedics) it provides. We
want to maintain the current level of Public Safety service and to insure this, we
should pass Public Safety Assessment.

Keep San Marino safe. Vote yes on Measure O.

DAVID T. SWARTS

Co-Chair, Committee of San Marino Residents
Measures G and O

BENJAMIN B. SALVATY

Co-Chair, Committee of San Marino Residents
Measures G and O

For Passage of

For Passage of

PR-900096-5

LA 231-030