VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF COTATI
MEASURE G

G Shall the ordinance increasing the Transient Occupancy
Tax from ten (10) percent to twelve (12) percent be
adopted?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

The City of Cotati currently imposes a tax in the amount of 10% of the rent
charged to persons who stay at a hotel within the Cotati City limits. This tax
is called the transient occupancy tax (“TOT”). The tax is paid by the hotel room
occupant directly to the hotel operator at the time the occupant pays his or her
hotel bill. Hotel operators hold the collected taxes in trust for the benefit of the
City and remit the taxes quarterly to the City tax administrator.

If this measure is approved by the electorate, the TOT shall increase by 2%
from the present 10% rate to 12%. Therefore, if this measure is approved, a
person who stays in a hotel within the City of Cotati will pay 12% of the rent
charged by the hotel operator as a TOT. All of the TOT revenues collected by
the City are used, and shall continue to be used, for City general fund purposes.

The ordinance proposed by this ballot measure will be adopted if this measure
is approved by a simple majority of those electors voting on the measure at the
November 7, 2006 election.

A “yes" vote would approve an increase in the City’s TOT by 2%. A “no” vote
would reject the proposed 2% increase in the City’s TOT.

Dated: August 7,2006

si Jeffrey A. Walter
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

The Transient Occupancy Tax would be paid by visitors who rent hotel/motel
rooms in Cotati. It will not be paid by Cotati residents. Revenue generated from
the Transient Occupancy Tax would help to pay for our City's police, street
maintenance, recreation, economic development, and other general government
operations.

Cotati's current Transient Occupancy Tax rate is 10 percent. While there are
currently no hotel/motel rooms located in Cotati, the City is anticipating future
development of hotels. Other cities in Sonoma County have a 12 percent tax rate,
so an adjustment in the Transient Occupancy Tax rate to 12 percent will keep
Cotati in line with our neighboring communities.

Cotati has lost hundreds of thousands of dollars in the last few years due to the
State returning less and less of your property taxes to the cities. When Cotati has
hotels/motels within the city limits, the Transient Occupancy Tax increase will help
make up this budget shortfall without it coming out of your pocket. This is a fair tax
because it is simply charging visitors a fair share for the services they receive from
the community. If visitors do not pay their fair share, then Cotati residents have to
subsidize them.

The City Council wants to develop revenues to provide the services and programs
this community wants and deserves without levying taxes upon its citizens. The
Transient Occupancy Tax is a beneficial way to produce new revenue from tour-
ists, visitors, and business travelers who use City services, without Cotati taxpayers
having to expend their hard-earned money.

Help your community have safer streets and neighborhoods and more recreational
opportunities. Please vote Yes on Measure G.

si Janet Orchard	si	Geoffrey	Fox

Mayor, City of Cotati	Vice	Mayor,	City of Cotati

si Pat Gilardi	si	Lisa	Moore

Councilmember, City of Cotati	Councilmember, City of	Cotati

NO REBUTTAL WAS SUBMITTED TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASUREG

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

The City of Cotati is asking the voters to approve a increase in the Transient Occu-
pancy Tax or TOT from its current ten percent (10%) to twelve percent (12%). The
City wants to be at the same level as other cities in Sonoma County. Only one prob-
lem: There are no hotels, motels, inns or lodges in Cotati. The proposed tax will
stay on the books until they get a hotel, motel, inn or lodge, but who know when,
where and if this will happen in a town that objects to growth or change. Since the
thinking is that this tax will not affect the residents of the town, who cares. This is
the same fuzzy thinking that affects other government agencies. Apparently, it
does not matter to the City that it costs public money to place this tax on the ballot,
and there is no indication how in the future this money will be spent or if there is a
sunset provision, or that visitors to our County are already paying, in addition to the
TOT, high sales taxes. Talk about taxation for taxation’s sake; this is the prime
example. Vote No on this nonsense tax.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION
sI Fred H. Levin, Executive Director

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

The City is wise to plan responsibly for its future growth which may include hotels.
The increase to Cotati’s Transient Occupancy Tax, or TOT, from 10% to 12%
places no financial impact on Cotati taxpayers. By including this measure on the
ballot during a regular election cycle, the taxpayers save the added costs of holding
a special election orincluding an item on afuture ballot that doesn’t already include
local election or local ballot measures. It makes good sense to bring Cotati’s TOT
inline with other Sonoma County cities and to provide for the adequate collection of
TOT funds that will finance future public safety, recreation, and other important City
services.

si Janet Orchard
Mayor of Cotati

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G

The people of the City of Cotati do ordain as follows:

The first sentence of section 3.12.030 of the Cotati Municipal Code is
amended to read as follows:

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall
pay a tax in the amount of twelve (12) percent of the rent charged by the operator.

63

9585