ORDINANCE NO. 483
OF MEASURE V
CITY OF BLUE LAKE

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BLUE LAKE UPDATING

RATES FOR BUSINESS LICENSES WITHIN THE CITY OF
BLUE LAKE AND REPEALING ORDINANCE NO. 396

The City Council of the City of Blue Lake does ordain as follows:

Section 1. RATES DECLARED ESTABLISHED. The City
Council of the City of Blue Lake hereby determines and proposes
that the rates of license for the businesses, trades, professions,
exhibitions, and occupations hereinafter set forth may be, and the
same are, hereby declared established for and within the City of
Blue Lake and shall be collected pursuant to the provisions of
Ordinance 471.

Section 2. GENERALLY, (a) Every person conducting or
carrying on a business consisting of selling any goods, wares and
merchandise or commodities, services, or conducting or carrying on
any profession, trade, occupation, calling or business not otherwise
specifically licensed by other sections of this ordinance, shall pay
an annual or semi-annual license tax of $50.00 per year plus $15.00
per year for each employee for the first fourteen (14) employees in
excess of one (1) plus $7.50 per year for each employee in excess
of fifteen (15), or a single-day fee of $10.00.

(b)	Every person not having a fixed place of business
within the City of Blue Lake, who delivers goods, wares, or
merchandise of any kind or performs services within the City (other
than those services specifically exempted by City ordinance or State
Law), by the use of a vehicle, shall pay a license tax of $50.00 per
year. Every person who is a licensed contractor and who performs
business within the City, shall pay a license tax of $15.00 per quarter,
if paid quarterly, or $50.00 per year, if paid annually.

(c)	Every person conducting or carrying on a business
consisting of door-to-door salesman or traveling salesman shall pay
an annual license tax of $100.00 per year or pay a daily fee of
$30.00 plus $5.00 for each salesperson in excess of one (1).

Section 3. GAMES. Every person operating or maintaining
a coin operated electronic or arcade game, pool table, pinball machine
or similar device shall pay a license tax of $40.00 per machine per
year.

Section 4. VENDING MACHINES. Every person operating
or maintaining a coin operated juke box, vending machine, cigarette
machine or similar device shall pay a license tax of $20.00 per
machine per year.

Section 5. CARNIVALS AND CIRCUSES. For every person
owning, maintaining, conducting, or presenting a Carnival, Circus,
menagerie, acrobatic performance, or exhibition of trained animals,
after first having obtained a permit so to do, from the City of Blue
Lake, the following license fee shall be charged and collected in
advance: $50.00 per day plus $10.00 per day for each and every
additional show, attraction, or exhibition for which a separate admission
charge is made. For the purpose of this ordinance the word "carnival"
shall mean and include any group of attractions such as ball games
of chance, Ferris Wheels, and similar forms of entertainment.

Section 6. MOVING PICTURES. For every person
conducting or showing moving pictures in the City of Blue Lake a
fee of $50.00 per year or $10.00 per day.

Section 7. MOTHER-IN-LAW AND SELF-CONTAINED
UNITS. Any person carrying on the business of renting at their
personal residence a self-contained unit with private access or a
mother-in-law unit shall pay an annual license fee of $40.00 for the
first unit plus $10.00 per unit for each additional unit.

Section 8. ROOMING HOUSES, HOTELS, MOTELS, BED
AND BREAKFAST INNS, MOBILEHOME PARKS, DUPLEXES AND
APARTMENTS, AND COMMERCIAL OR MIXED USE RENTALS. Any
person carrying on the business of conducting or operating a rooming
house, hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, mobilehome park, duplex
or apartment, or commercial or mixed use rentals shall pay an annual
license fee of $50.00 per year for each parcel and for each unit or
rental space in excess of one on the parcel shall pay an additional
$10.00 per unit per year. For the purposes of this Section, a
mobilehome park shall be considered a single parcel.

Section 9. RESIDENCES. Any person carrying on the
business of renting one or more residences shall pay a license fee
of $50.00 per year for one such rental unit on a parcel, and if there

is more than one such rental unit on a parcel, including attached
or separate self-contained units such as mother-in-law units, an
additional fee of $25.00 per year for each such additional unit with
a maximum of $100.00 per year per parcel. A residence shall be
construed to mean living quarters having facilities for cooking as
well as sleeping.

Section 10. SELF-STORAGE. Every person conducting or
carrying on the business of self-storage shall pay an annual license
fee of $50.00 for up to twenty units or spaces permitted, plus an
annual fee of $2.50 per unit or space permitted for each unit or
space permitted over twenty.

Section 11. VOTER APPROVAL. This Ordinance must, by
law, be submitted to the qualified voters of the City, whose approval
by a majority vote of those casting ballots is required if the tax is
to become effective. The City Council of the City of Blue Lake resolved
to call for a special election to be held on November 7, 2006, for
this purpose.

Section 12. AUTHORITY. The City Council of the City of Blue
Lake enacts this Ordinance pursuant to Government Code Section
37101 and intends by this Ordinance to satisfy the requirements of
Article XIII C of the Constitution of the State of California.

Section 13. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection,
sentence, phrase, portion or part of this Ordinance is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Ordinance. The City Council hereby declares that it
would have adopted this Ordinance and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, part or portion thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases,
parts or portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 14. REPEAL. Ordinance No. 396 is hereby repealed.

Section 15. ADOPTION. The City Council of the City of Blue
Lake is empowered and authorized to adopt this Ordinance 483
upon its confirmation by the voters of the City at the special election
of November 7, 2006.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE V

In 1910 the City of Blue Lake adopted its first business license
ordinance regulating business and establishing a business license
tax for general revenue purposes. The categories of businesses
regulated and the amount of the tax were revised by ordinance ten
times between 1910 and 1989, when Ordinance No. 396 was adopted
establishing the current categories and rates for business licenses.

vOn November 5,1996, the California voters adopted Proposition
218, which prohibits the City Council from raising general revenue
taxes without the approval of a majority of the electorate voting at
an election at which the question is submitted. Business license
fees are used for general revenue purposes and are subject to
Proposition 218.

The City Council has proposed the adoption of Ordinance No. 483,
which would revise the categories of business licenses and increase
the business license rates in an amount roughly equivalent to the
increase in the Consumer Price Index since the current rates were
established in 1989. Resolution No. 845 calls for an election to submit
to the voters the question of the approval of Ordinance No. 483.

Ordinance No. 483 increases the minimum annual general
business license fee from $30.00 to $50.00. For specific changes
to other categories of business license and rates, voters are referred
to the text of Ordinance No. 483. Charitable and non-profit
organizations are exempt from paying a business license tax.

If a majority of those voting vote “Yes” on the question, then the
City Council may adopt Ordinance No. 483 updating the rates for
business licenses within the City of Blue Lake. The new rates would
be applicable beginning with the first calendar year following the
effective date of the ordinance. If a majority of those voting vote
“No”, the City Council will not adopt Ordinance No. 483, and the
categories of business licenses and the business license rates will
remain the same as established in 1989 by Ordinance No. 396.

s/ Richard S. Platz
City Attorney

12-507

12507

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V
BUSINESS LICENSE RATES
CITY OF BLUE LAKE

Blue Lake has not adjusted its business license rates since 1989.
The City relies on these fees as part of its Genera! Fund revenues
which directly affect our daily life in Blue Lake through their support
of parks and recreation programs, public safety, and street maintenance.
The Genera! Fund is also supported by a percentage of property
taxes and vehicle licensing fees, but as we learn from recent
experience, this source is unreliable as the state legislature has ultimate
control of how many if any of these dollars the City receives. The new
proposed schedule in Ordinance 483 attempts to adjust for the lack
of a rate increase since 1989. Some representative changes follow.
Licenses for a one-person business will go from the current $30 to
$50 a year. Typical increases that landlords experience will range from
less than $1 per space per month in mobile home parks to less than
$2 per unit per month for landlords with apartment buildings or most
other multiple unit situations. Charitable and non-profit organizations
are exempt from payment of these fees. Unlike many other cities, the
City of Blue Lake receives little sales tax and no bed tax. Therefore,
the business license fees are an important supplement to General
Fund revenues. This measure requires a simple majority vote to pass.
The City Councilmembers unanimously urges a YES vote on this
measure.

si Karen Barnes, Councilperson
s/ Adelene Jones, Councilperson
si Marlene Smith, Councilperson
si Sherman Schaprio, Councilperson
si Marvin Samuels, Councilperson

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

I

12-508

III llllllllllllllliniiii