VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF BIGGS

MEASURE C2

Shall a special property tax to fund stand-by costs of
providing emergency room services at the Biggs-Gridley
Hospital, in the amount of $70 per residential equivalent unit
per year for ten years (vacant parcels and parcels without
residential units shall not be subject to the tax), as enacted
by the City of Biggs Resolution No. 2006-14, and a
corresponding increase in the City's spending limit, be
approved?

City Attorney’s Impartial Analysis of Measure "C2":
Special Tax Measure

The Biggs City Attorney has prepared the following impartial
analysis of Measure "C2". This analysis is not an argument
for or against the measure.

Analysis:

This measure is being submitted to voters within the
incorporated city limits of the City of Biggs (City), pursuant to
the requirements of Proposition 218, which was approved by
California voters in November 1996. Proposition 218 prohibits
new taxes and/or tax increases within the City unless and until
the new tax or tax increase is submitted to the City’s voters
within that area and approved by a two-thirds vote.

This measure would authorize a proposed special tax within
the City, as specified in Resolution 2006-14, adopted by the
Biggs City Council on July 17, 2006, for stand-by costs of
providing emergency room services at the Biggs-Gridley
Memorial Hospital, a critical access hospital. If the measure
is approved by two-thirds or more of the votes cast on the
measure, the proposed special tax, in the amount of $70.00
per Equivalent Residential Unit, will be imposed on real
property in the City for fiscal year 2006-07 and each fiscal
year thereafter, for a period of ten (10) years. The proposed
tax would expire after ten (10) years. The amount of the
proposed special tax for each parcel of residential real
property would be based upon the number of Equivalent
Residential Units.

For the purposes of defining an Equivalent Residential Unit,
the following categories have been established:

(1)	Single family residential (1);

(2)	Multi-family residential unit (.75);

(3)	Condominium (.75);

(4)	Vacant parcels and parcels without
residential units shall not be subject to the Tax.

The imposition and levy of the tax is expressly conditioned

upon the adoption by the voters within the unincorporated
area of the County known as County Service Area 37 (the
“CSA 37 area”) and the city of Gridley and the approval of
their respective electorates, of special tax measures within
their respective jurisdictions which also provide funding for the
hospital emergency room at the same rates and for the same
duration as the proposed special tax.

The tax would not be imposed upon real property owned by
the County, the State of California, any other public district or
agency of the State or the United States of America.

The tax could not be increased in the future unless another
election were held in the City approving the increase by two-
thirds or more of the votes cast.

The amount of the tax imposed each year would appear as a
separate item on each tax bill and would be collected by the
County in the same manner and at the same time as property
taxes.

The revenues generated from the tax could only be used for
stand-by costs of providing emergency room services at the
Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital.

Is/ Gregory P. Einhorn
City Attorney
City of Biggs

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure
"C2". If you desire a copy of the measure or a copy of
Resolution 2006-14, please call the City of Biggs at 868-
5493 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

04-508

VOTER’S	PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS	
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)	
Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C2	
Measure C-2 will ensure our communities continue to have access to emergency medical services.	
Readily accessible emergency room services can mean the difference between life and death. The communities of Biggs, Gridley, Richvale and the surrounding area are fortunate to have a hospital with 24-hour physician-staffed emergency room service with supporting staff including nurses and radiology, laboratory, and cardiology technicians. Life-sustaining treatment can be provided and if specialized medical services are not available, emergency stabilization and transportation to a trauma center are provided. The ER has saved countless lives in our communities.	
The hospital needs support to continue to pay for having these vital emergency services available, which is the sole reason for the assessment being placed on your ballot. The hospital loses approximately $800,000 yearly providing emergency services for our community. The proposed assessment will raise $300,000 annually, which approaches the cost of maintaining ER staff availability at all times. The assessment does not pay for uninsured patients. It pays for standby expenses for keeping the emergency room open. This assessment ends in ten years, for as our communities grow, the hospital’s volume will grow making	NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED
the subsidy unnecessary. Waiver of the assessment for qualifying low-income residents is included. Your elected officials will control the funds. Ultimately, these funds help the hospital support newer facilities and equipment.	AGAINST MEASURE C2
Measure C-2 will allow us to keep our local hospital open.	
Measure C-2 is more than just the emergency room. If the emergency room were to close, it would mean the hospital would also close. The impact on healthcare in our communities would be enormous. Fewer qualified physicians would locate here and residents would need to drive out of town for diagnostic testing.	
Please vote “yes”. A “yes” vote means continued emergency services and a hospital in our regional community.	
Is/ Roger Frith, Biggs City Council Member  Is/ Luke Waters, Biggs City Council Member  /s/ John Harris, BGMH Hospital Foundation President	

04-509

Resolution No. 06-124

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
BUTTE AMENDING RESOLUTION No. 06-115 PE3
CONSOLIDATION OF AN ELECTION FOR SPECIAL T
HELD IN THE CITIES OF BIGGS AND GRIDLEY
STATEWIDE ELECTION TO BE HELD NOVEMBER 7,2(

F THE COUNTY OF
AINING TO THE
MEASURES TO BE
TH THE GENERAL
6

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors adopted Resolut
25, 2006 ordering the consolidation of elections for special tax ir
cities of Biggs and Gridley with the statewide election to be hel< 1
and

on No. 06-115 on July
sasures to be held in the
on November 7, 2006;

WHEREAS, the City of Biggs has called an election t(
providing emergency room services at the Biggs-Gridley Hospital
election for a special property tax for police protection; and

fund stand-by costs of
but has not called an

WHEREAS, Resolution No. 06-115 needs to be ament jed to accurately reflect
the nature of the actions taken by the two cities.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Boa rd of Supervisors of the
County of Butte, State of California, that Resolution No. 06-1 \ 5 shall be amended as
follows:

1. All references to a special election called by the G
amended to reflect that there is a single special property tax meas
the voters pertaining to funding stand-by costs of providing emerj
the Biggs-Gridley Hospital. All references to a second measure
services shall be deemed deleted.

ty of Biggs shall be
a ire to be submitted to
I ency room services at
p staining to City police

2. Section 1 of Resolution No. 06-115 pertaining to ffy
within the cities of Biggs and Gridley is deleted as superfluous as
is contained within the resolutions enacting the respective special
adopted by the two cities.

3. Section 5 of Resolution No. 06-115 is hereby ame (ided to read:

“Section 5. Questions Submitted to the Voters.

The Butte County Clerk/Recorder is hereby directed tt include the following
ballot measures on the ballot, and the relevant voter pam hlet information, as set
forth hereinafter, and that the following ballot question}, to be numbered and
designated by the County of Butte as City Council proposed ballot measures, are

1

e call of an election
the call of the election
property taxes as

to appear as follows:

A. City of Biggs:

Shall a special property tax to fund stand-by costs of providing emergency
room services at the Biggs-Gridley Hospital, in the amount of $70 per
residential equivalent unit per year for ten years (vacant parcels and
parcels without residential units shall not be subject to the tax), as enacted
by the City of Biggs Resolution No. 2006-14,
increase in the City’s spending limit, be approved?

and a corresponding

YES
NO "

B. City of Gridley:

Shall a special property tax to fund stand-by costs o ‘providing emergency
room services at the Biggs-Gridley Hospital, in die amount of $70 per
residential equivalent unit per year for ten year! (vacant parcels and
parcels without residential units shall not be subject to the tax), as enacted
by City Resolution 2006-R-035, and a corresponding increase in the City’s
spending limit, be approved?

YES

NO

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the B< ard of Supervisors of

the County of Butte, State of California, on the 8th day of Augui t_, 2006, by the

following vote:

II

AYES:	Supervisors	Connelly,	Dolan,	Houx,	Yamagiijchi	and	Chair	Josiassen

NOES: None	ij

ABSENT: None
NOT VOTING: None

ATTEST:

PAUL MCINTOSH, Chief Administrative Officer
and Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

SEN, Chair of the
card of Supervisors

ATTEST

PAULMotffTOSH

THE FOREGOING INS rRUMENT IS A CORRECT COPY 0“
THE ORIGINAL ON Rip AND OF RECORD IN THIS CFRC t

Q$/// /Ob

DATE



CM of the Beam of Super*
In and for the County Of Bui^

j WflHflf vflRnH

HE

US/17/06 THU 08:10 FAX 530 898 0877

^€CCv>KcP	-

/4uv^

City Attorney^ Impartial Analysis of Measure "C2M: Speqal Tax Measure

The Biggs City Attorney has prepared the following impartial analysis of Meisure "C2'\ This analysis is not
an argument for or against die measure.

Analysis:

This measure is being submitted to voters within the incorporated city limits of
to die requirements of Proposition 218. which was approved by CalT
Proposition 218 prohibits new taxes and/or tax increases within the City uni
increase is submitted to the City's voters within that area and approved by a *

ie City of Biggs (City), pursuant
a voters in November 1996.
and until the new tax or tax
-thirds vote.

spec

This measure would authorize a proposed special tax within the City, as
adopted by the Biggs City Council on July 17,2006, far stand-by costs of pro
at the Biggs-Oridley Memorial Hospital, a critical access hospital, if the
more of the votes cast on the measure, the proposed special tax, in the
Residential Unit, will be imposed on real property in the City for fiscal
thereafter, for a period often (10) years. The proposed tax would expire after
proposed special tax fbr each parcel of residential real property would be baser
Residential Units.

meas ire
an

year
ert ;t

ified in Resolution 2006-14,
Riding emergency room services
is approved by two-thirds or
unt of $70.00 per Equivalent
2006-07 and each fiscal year
n (10) years. The amount of the
upon the number of Equivalent

For the purposes of defining an Equivalent Residential Unit, the following categories have been established:

(1)	Single family residential (1);

(2)	Muhi-fami ly residential unit (.75);

(3)	Condominium (.75);

(4)	Vacant parcels and parcels without residential units tyhall not be subject to the Tax.

The imposition and levy of the tax is expressly conditioned upon the adoptionllby the voters
within the unincorporated area of the County known as County Service Area 17 (the “CSA 37 area") and the
city of Gridley and the approval of their respective electorates, of special tax r leasures within their respective
jurisdictions which also provide funding for the hospital emergency room at pie same rates and for the same
duration as the proposed special tax.

The tax would not be imposed upon real properly owned by the County, the Stal|^ of California, any other public
district or agency of the State or the United States of America.

The tax could not be increased in the future unless another election were held in
by two-thirds or more of the votes cast.

he City approvingfhe increase

The amount of the tax imposed each year would appear as a separate item Jm each tax bill and would be
collected by the County in the same manner and at the same time as property t axes.

The revenues ge;
at tiie Bi

from the tax could only be used forstand-by costs of providing emergency room services
emoriai Hospital.

City Attorney
City of Biggs

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure "C2‘\ If you desire a
Resolution 2006-14, please call the City ofBiggs at 868-5493 and a copy will

c spy of the measure or a copy of
5e mailed at no cost to you.

Measure C-2 will ensure our communities continue to have acjsess to emeigency medical
services.

Readily accessible emergency room services can mean the dif erence between life and
deed). The communities of Biggs, Gridley, Richvale and the surroun ling area are fortunate to
have* hospital with 24-hour physician-staffed emergency room servi * with supporting staff
inchiding mines and radiology, laboratory, and cardioi^	Life-sustaining

treatment can be provided sad if spedaKzed medical services are not ivailable, emergency
stabilization and transportation to a trauma center are provided. The ER has saved countless
lives in our communities.

The hospftal needs support to continue to pay for having tbesr vital emergency services
available, which is the sole reason for the assessment being placed on your ballot. The hospital
loses approximately WOO,000 yearly providing emergency services I c our community. The
proposed assessment will raise $390,000 annually, which approachesllthe cost of maintaining ER
staff availability at all times. THE ASSESSMENT DOES NOT PAY FOR UNINSURED

\

/X.

H

/¥-

/3
A/

/¥>
/b
//

/3
}'2-

A3

at

ix

/y

n

/s~

close, it would mean die hospital would also dose. The impact on hdklthcare in our communities /£>
would be enormous. Fewer qualified physicians would locate here ttjjd residents would need to /*/
drive out of town for diagi

Please vote “yes”. A “yes” vote means continued emergency

our

PATIENTS, ft pays fbrstamfey expenses for keeping the emergence room open. This
assessment ends in ten years, for as our communities grow, the hospn si’s volume will grow
making the subsidy unnecessary. Waiver of the assessment for quaKi ring low-income residents
is included. Yota* elected officials will control the funds. Ultimately! these foods help the
hospital support newer feeilittes mid equipment.

Measure C-2 will allow us to keep our local hospital open.

Measure C-2 is more than just the emergency room. If the eniergency room were to

/s

/s

Roger Frith, Biggs City Council Member
Luke Waters, Biggs City Council Member
John Harris, BGMH Hospital Foundation President

services and a hospital in	/ tf .



i

i

i

STATEMENT OF ACCURACY I

I

The undersigned authors) of the (select one of the following)

H ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

{300 WORDS OR LESS)

□ ARGUMENT AGAINST

(300 WORDS OR LESS)

□ REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT

(250 WORDS OR LESS)

□ REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST

(250 WORDS OR LESS)

FILED

BUTTE COUNTY

2MM618 Mil* 18

ECORDE*

Ballot measure

at the.

General

NwntofEUefon

the City Of Biggs

being held on

Novembe

hereby state that such argument is true and correct to the best ofhis/h^their knowledge and belief.

1.



MMyil «M MJW WHtitttt tppm M

i.cyt)i of Riggc

John/Harris

Mymwntitti agavea

election for

p.

.20

06

t ''7X\A*s>

BGMH Hospita





2Jfa6*

THfeto^pMrMmri

Roger Frith

Biggs City Council Member

Foundation President

■MtfoptiOMl - JMM to 4 WMd*)

Luke Waters

Biggs City Connell Member

SjpWmMdde* |  ... ... j	
Ftwrtyp* mm m jrm wHlit id  		J	Vpeeeees**1
		1	■mart (option) - tiniati to 4 wwdf)
FOR INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT:	
3. A. Suver 1	
Kn« and Hum Nanbar 1  240 Spruce Stred	t Gridley 95948
SUMtAteNM |	Off Sp Cod*

OPTIONAL TITLES SHOULD NOT EXCEED FOUR (4) WORDS. TITLES THAT DO N<
BE ABBREVIATED.

A ballot argument or rebuttal argument dull not be accepted unless accompanied fay the name or
submitted on behalf of an organization, die name of die organization and the name of at least one o^
signatures shall appear with any aignment submitted. Arguments may be changed or withdrawn by
fixed fay die election official for filing. There is a 10-calendar day examination period prior to submil
Sections 9164,9190,9380,9301,9600.

<j r

T FIT IN ALLOTTED SPACE WILL

nftmcs of the person(s) submitting it, or, if
its principal officers. No more than five
r proponents up to and including the date
arguments for printing. Elections Code

th i
tti ig

Text of aigumenta/rebuttal arguments should either be typewritten or printed on Butte County's Argun
computer generated statement may be attached to the form. Statements are electronically scanned for ty
will not be accepted for filing.

ent Form. Alternatively, a typewritten or
esetting, therefore, handwritten arguments

CONTEST ID#

€55 \

For Office Use Only

MEASURE LETTER DESIGNATION



ELECTION DATE: l( "~7- OU	JURISDICTION:	Cl4M	o£~