<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF SPECIAL SALES TAX FOR REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS
MEASURE G

ON JULY 20, 2006, THE MERCED COUNTY
ASSOCIATION OF GOVERNMENTS (“MCAG”)
BOARD ACTING AS THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTA-
TION AUTHORITY FOR THE COUNTY OF MERCED
ADOPTED AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR A ONE-
HALF (1/2) PERCENT SALES AND USED TAX FOR
TRANSPORTATION NEEDS IN THE COUNTY OF
MERCED. ON AUGUST 1, 2006, THE MERCED
COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS ADOPTED A
RESOLUTION (RESOLUTION NO. 2006-147) TO
CONSOLIDATE THE SPECIAL ELECTION FOR A
ONE-HALF (1/2) PERCENT TAX INCREASE FOR
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS AND
ORDERED PLACING THE SPECIAL ELECTION ON
THE NOVEMBER 7, 2006 STATE OF CALIFORNIA
GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT.

Designation of Measure. This Special Election on
a one-half (1/2) cent sales and use tax for regional
transportation needs is designated by the Election

Registrar as Measure G.

Purpose of this Special Election. Measure G sub-
mits to the qualified voters of the County of Merced the
proposition of whether or not they approve the one-half
(1/2) percent County Transactions and Used Tax. Funds
raised by measure G are to be expended for Countywide
highway and bypass projects, filling pot holes, repaving
roads, installing sidewalks, curbs and shoulders, and oth-
er road maintenance and public safety road projects,
including transit services, accessibility and new routes.

Authority for Election. The authority for adopting a
sales and used tax for funding transportation needs of
the jurisdiction and ordering this Special Election is con-
tained in Taxation Code section 7251 et seq. and Public
Utilities Code section 180201 et seq. California elections
Code section 10002 allows for the consolidation of a spe-
cial election with the State General Election ballot.

Special Election. Pursuant to section 180201 of the
California Public Utilities Code, Measure G requires
approval by a 2/3 majority of the electors voting on
November 7, 2006. Should the qualified voters of the
County of Merced approve measure G, then a County
transportation expenditure plan would be adopted pursuant to the terms and conditions of Action 180206 of
the California Public Utilities Act. The one-half percent
sales tax would be imposed on all retail and used tax
transactions applicable within the incorporated and unin-
corporated territory of the County of Merced. The one-
half (1/2) cent tax proposed by Measure G would remain
in effect for the period of thirty years (30) and would pro-
vide additional funding dedicated to regional transporta-
tion projects of the County of Merced. After the thirty (30)
year time period specified by the tax ordinance adopted
by the MCAG Board, tax could be continued in effect, or
re-imposed, if a further tax ordinance is adopted by a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of the MCAG Board and the re-
imposition of the tax is further approved by the majority of
the voting electorates within the County of Merced.

If Measure G is approved by the voters, the required
County transportation expenditure plan would detail the
revenues expected to be derived form the tax imposed
under Measure G, together with other federal, state and
local funds expected to be available for transportation
improvements, for the thirty (30) year period in which
Measure G would be effective. Developer impact fees
would supplement Measure G funds.

All revenue generated by Measure G will remain in
Merced County and cannot be taken by the State of
California. The revenues from Measure G will allow the
County to leverage matching State funds for transporta-
tion projects. If Measure G is approved, an Independent
Taxpayer with Watchdog Committee will conduct yearly
audits, review transportations projects and assure that all
funds are used appropriately as approved by the voters.

A YES VOTE would mean that the voter is in favor
of a one-half (1/2) cent tax be imposed and expended for
regional transportation needs of County residents and if a
2/3 majority of those voting for Measure G vote yes,
Measure G will pass.

A NO VOTE would mean that the voter is against
Measure G and is opposed to the imposition of a retail
and used tax within the County of Merced for transporta-
tion improvements and maintenance. <impartialend>





<impartialsigs> s/ Ruben E. Castillo

Merced County Counsel
Fernanda A. Saude
Assistant County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Please join us in support of Measure G. Merced
County will continue to lose out on finding for our trans-
portation needs unless we pass Measure G.

Measure G will:

•	Raise approximately $446 million for local trans-
portation projects.

•	Classify Merced County as a “Self Help County”
qualifying us to receive an additional $1 billion in
matching funds from the State and Federal gov-
ernments.

° Repave and repair local roads in every communi-
ty throughout Merced County.

•	Stay in Merced County — the State cannot take
one penny.

•	Reduce traffic through our neighborhoods and
make our children’s routes to school safer by
adding sidewalks, improving bike lanes, and
upgrading shoulders on local roads and high-
ways.

•	Construct safety and capacity improvements to
Highways 99, 59, 140, 152 and 165.

•	Improve traffic flow on local and rural roads by
synchronizing traffic signals, widening local
streets and adding turn lanes.

•	Expand and improve transit services for senior
citizens, people with disabilities and others who
rely on public transportation.

•	Safeguard your tax dollars through an indepen-
dent local citizens’ oversight committee who will
hold officials accountable and review audits annu-
ally to ensure voter mandates are met.

Measure G will improve our local economy by:

•	putting people to work on construction projects
improving Merced County’s roads.

° facilitating more efficient transportation of our
county’s valuable agricultural goods.

Without Measure G, transportation projects will be
delayed for decades or cancelled. Passing Measure G
will make our county eligible for an additional one billion
dollars in matching state transportation dollars — funds
that will be spent on road projects elsewhere in the State
unless we pass Measure G.

We urge you to join the many other supporters from
across Merced County in voting Yes on G. <favorend>







<favorsigs> s/ Jeff Horta, Merced Firefighters Association

s/ Susan Walsh, Former President, League of
Women Voters, Merced Chapter

s/ Michael Amabile, Business Owner, Mayor,

Los Banos

s/ Roger Wood, Retired Farmer, Atwater

s/ Michelle W. Allison, President Merced Branch
NAACP <favorsigsend>






<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

For years, Merced County policy makers have been
shortchanging your streets and highways, in fact, the
2006/2007 County budget is $54 million more than last
year’s budget, and yet only 4% of the budget is allocated
for roads and facilities. In the face of deteriorating streets
and highways, policy makers continually ignored this
glaring problem and diverted funds to other programs.
The disregard continues, with a $450 Million spending
plan for 2006/2007 funding multi-million dollar projects
and yet cutting discretionary funding for road mainte-
nance.

Now, you are being asked for a third time to raise
your taxes to make up for this mistake. And, to com-
pound matters, there are no guarantees or promises that
future Boards of Supervisors will not make the same mis-
take again. Yes, that’s right, you could be asked to raise
your taxes yet again after future years of deferred main-
tenance!

In 2002 the citizens of Merced County rejected
Measure M — a road improvement tax. Merced County
continued approving thousands of new homes and the
new roads to serve them. This reckless action is destroy-
ing hundreds of miles of our existing County roads,
because this new development just doesn’t pay for itself.
Again in June 2006 the voters rejected Measure A, the
same road tax proposed by Measure G. When will the
policy makers get it? Voters don’t want to subsidize
developers.

We recognize our roads need help. However, the
first option should not be raising your taxes. Rather, the
Board of Supervisors should make development pay for
itself and stop deferring maintenance.

Send Merced County a message — put our fiscal
house in order first before raising our taxes. Join us on
November 7 and Vote No on Measure G! <againstend>






<againstsigs> s/ Roberta Avilla, merchant

s/ Charles W. Magneson, farmer

s/ William H. Stockard, Retired Co. Supt. of
Schools <againstsigsend>





<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT ARGUMENT
IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

County just passed a $450 Million budget — $54
Million larger than last year — with funds allocated to a
variety of new programs. Now they want local taxpayers
to finance road construction and repairs, because new
programs are being favored over ongoing responsibili-
ties; County continues to defer maintenance of our
decaying roadways.

Proponents tout the benefits of receiving matching
funds, but fail to mention that none of the matching funds
can be used for local roads, but must be used for state
highways, where developers have the most to gain. The
“capacity improvements” praised by proponents will
increase traffic, sprawl and air pollution, when local gov-
ernment has not yet even updated general, municipal
and community plans.

Supporters of a tax on citizens to pay for roads
include the building and real estate industries. This sales
tax would benefit these special interests, industries that
leave the County with more homes, more streets and
roads to maintain, and more traffic. Instead of making
development pay for itself, County wants you to pay for it.

Proponents cite a laundry list of eligible projects, but
omit cost breakdowns. That’s because the text of
Measure G was not even available before arguments
were submitted. Presumably, this is the same measure
that has failed twice before, the last time in June of this
year. Send the County a message for the third time: con-
serve existing roadways and make development pay its
own way.

Vote NO on Measure G. <rebutfavorend>






<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Mary L. Furey, Farmer

s/ Sally S. Magneson, Advocate for Quality Growth

s/ William H. Stockard, Merced County Supt. of
Schools - Retired

s/ Ann Adams, Concerned Citizen <rebutfavorsigsend>






<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE G

Quite simply, there have not "been enough dollars
available to maintain, never mind improve, our roads giv-
en the other fiscal responsibilities of the County. The
majority of the County’s, and Cities’, budgets is allocated
for public assistance, public protection, and health and
sanitation. The County and Cities have been forced to
make difficult decisions about how our dollars are spent,
and, thus, have placed the emphasis on public safety. As
residents, we must pursue alternative means to make
progress happen for our transportation needs.

Merced County recently implemented the Regional
Transportation Impact Fee (RTIF). RTIF requires all
types of development — residential, commercial, and
industrial - to pay fees to help finance county road and
highway projects that are impacted by new development.
Between September 1, 2005, and September 1, 2006,
the County has collected $3 million in RTIF. Indeed, new
development is forced to pay for itself.

Merced County must take action to become a “Self
Help” county to qualify us for additional matching funds
that only go to “Self Help” counties. The only way to
receive this classification and, hence, the funds, is to
pass a transportation measure, Measure G.

In June, a majority, 62.8% of voters approved the
transportation measure. Because of the fact that this is a
special tax with restrictions limiting its use to ONLY trans-
portation, we need two thirds, or 66.7%, of voters to
approve it. we urge you to Vote yes on G so that Merced
„ County can get our fair share! <rebutagainstend>





<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Bob Carpenter, Business owner
s/ Pat Palazzo, Farmer
s/ Margaret Randolph, Business owner
s/ Mike Nelson, Merced County Supervisor,District 3
s/ Robert Pinney, General Manager <rebutagainstsigsend>





<summary> MERCED COUNTY TRANSPORTATION SALES TAX EXPENDITURE PLAN

Summary

This Plan will guide the use of more than $446 million in locally raised and locally controlled transportation funds.
The revenue will be generated through the passage of the Merced County Transportation Measure, a ’/£ cent sales
tax, if approved by the voters in the November 7, 2006 election.

Why does Merced County need a transportation sales tax?

Our transportation system is in crisis. There is not enough money available to maintain our roads or to build
improvements to relieve congestion. We are falling farther behind each year. Existing sources of revenue are simply
inadequate, because our needs have increased while funding has not. A sales tax is one of the only means of raising
money that we can do ourselves. About $446 million would be raised over the 30-year life of a % cent tax, leveraging
an additional $1 billion from State and Federal sources.

What will this plan do for me?

° Local street and road maintenance and repairs will be significantly increased.

° Improvements such as road widening and new roadways will be built in communities throughout Merced
County. See page 4.

° Transit service (“The Bus”) will be improved by adding routes and increasing frequency on existing routes.

We already pay taxes for roads. Where does that money go?

It goes to roads. Unfortunately, it is not enough, and hasn’t been for years. Gas taxes have not increased since
1994, so buying power has decreased while road use has gone up dramatically.

What about development? Will newcomers pay for new roads?

Yes. Most areas have impact fee programs to charge new growth for its impacts on the transportation system.

Also, thesis now a Regional Transportation Impact Fee to help fund regional projects necessary to serve new
growth.

How can I be sure the money will be spent well?

The money will be put into special accounts that can only be spent on transportation. An independent oversight
committee of citizens will annually audit the funds, review the projects, and report its findings to the public.

How will the money be spent?

The Expenditure Plan provides for investments in three categories. Each category will receive a percentage
share of sales tax revenues. Up to one percent of the revenues can be allocated for plan administration.

Category__________________________________ Percent	Share

1. Priority Projects Countywide	50.0 %

2.	Local Street & Road Maintenance	44.5	%

3.	Transit Service Improvements	4.5	%

Administration & Audit	1.0 %

Expenditure (30 years)

$223 million
$198 million
$20 million
$4.5 million

Background

Our transportation infrastructure is overburdened as our demand to travel continually increases. This comes as
no surprise to the people who live or work in Merced County. Transportation issues are consistently identified as a
primary concern of County and Valley residents.

There is no single solution to our transportation problems, and there is no single source that can fully fund all of
our mobility needs. Transportation projects in Merced County are funded in a variety of ways, including local shares
of gas tax and sales tax, grants from federal and state government, and other means. However, current funding will
not be adequate to maintain the existing transportation system and will not keep pace with the growth in demands of
an increasingly mobile Merced County over the coming 30 years.

One of the few avenues for funding that can be directly controlled by Merced County residents is a transportation
sales tax. While the sales tax will not close the funding gap, it provides a significant opportunity to improve our trans-
portation system.

This Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan outlines a program for spending a half-cent (1/2-cent) increase
in sales taxes, to be entirely dedicated to transportation purposes in Merced County. This plan is intended to provide
a high degree of accountability, while maintaining the flexibility needed to respond to emerging transportation issues
over a 30-year period.

This Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan was developed with extensive input from the public and from the
cities and communities throughout the County. Dozens of public meetings were held to gather opinions and the Plan
was crafted in response to what was heard. The plan was further shaped by input from the cities and County of
Merced.

Becoming a “Self-Help” County will help Merced get its fair share of state and federal sources. While a sales tax
alone will not solve all of our transportation problems, implementing a transportation sales tax, approved by two-thirds
of the voters of Merced County, opens new opportunities for leveraging or matching our local money with state and
federal sources that require a local share. Using leveraging, our local sales tax has the potential of generating more
funding from outside sources than the amount generated locally, while setting Merced County on a course of inde-
pendence that will allow us to determine our own priorities for transportation projects.

Revenue

The transportation sales tax will be 'A%\ that is an additional % cent on each dollar of taxable goods and services.
Over the 30-year duration of the tax, it is estimated that $446 million would be raised. Expenditures described in this
plan are based on this estimate, but actual expenditures will depend on the actual revenues received, which could be
more, or less.

It is expected that additional revenues will be attracted to Merced County because of its status as a “Self-Help”
County. These would come in the form of state and federal dollars that would otherwise not come to this county. It is
estimated that up to $1 billion in additional funds could come to Merced County, based on the experiences of other
counties, which have sales taxes specifically for transportation.

Expenditure Categories

The Expenditure Plan provides for investments in three categories. Each category will receive a percentage
share of sales tax revenues. Up to one percent of the revenues can be allocated for plan administration.

Category___________________________________Percent	Share

1.	Priority Projects Countywide	50.0 %

2.	Local Street & Road Maintenance	44.5 %

3.	Transit Service Improvements	4.5 %

Administration & Audit	1.0 %

Expenditure (30 years)

$223 million
$198 million
$20 million
$4.5 million


Descriptions of program categories follow.

1.	Priority Projects Countywide

Fifty percent (50%) of the funds will be allocated to this program. The Governing Board of the Merced County
Association of Governments is the decision-maker for allocating these funds.

The purpose of this program is to fund improvements, which will increase safety, increase capacity, reduce con-
gestion, improve access, and promote economic development.

Table 1 lists the priority projects countywide.
Table 1: Priority Projects Countywide

Project	Where	Plan  Allocation	Other Fund Sources*
Hwy. 99 Widening to 6 lanes throughout County	Delhi, Livingston, Atwater, Merced	$85,000,000	$370,000,000
Sidewalks, curbs and gutters in downtown Atwater	Atwater	$1,500,000	$0
Bellevue Rd. connection from Hwy. 99 to Atwater	Atwater	$4,000,000	$3,000,000
Atwater Blvd. Improvements	Atwater	$5,000,000	$0
Bradbury Ave. Reconstruction - Hwy. 165 to Ballico	Delhi, Hilmar, Ballico	$6,000,000	$0
Schendel Ave. sidewalks	Delhi	$500,000	$0
El Capitan Way and Delhi Ave. sidewalks	Delhi	$1,000,000	$0
Dos Palos Street reconstruction	Dos Palos	$6,000,000	$500,000
Hwy. 59 widening from Mission Ave. to Hwy. 152	El Nido, Dos Palos, Merced	$5,000,000	$45,000,000
Franklin Rd. sidewalks, shoulders	Franklin	$600,000	$0
Ashby Rd. shoulders and repaving	Franklin	$1,500,000	$0
Hwy. 59 Re-alignment and new interchange on 99	Franklin, Atwater, Merced	$10,000,000	$127,000,000
Gustine Streets reconstruction	Gustine	$2,000,000	$500,000
Gustine truck route / bypass	Gustine	$4,000,000	$3,100,000
Intersection Improvements on Lander Ave.	Hilmar	$900,000	$0
Pedestrian bridge to schools over Lateral 7 Canal	Hilmar	$200,000	$0
Hwy. 165 widening from Hilmarto Hwy. 99	Hilmar	$5,000,000	$20,000,000
Hwy. 165 re-alignment bypassing Hilmar	Hilmar, Delhi, Stevinson	$5,000,000	$120,000,000
Buchanon Hollow Rd. reconstruction	Le Grand	$1,500,000	$1,000,000
Main St. reconstruction	Livingston	$3,500,000	$500,000
Hammatt Avenue interchange improvement	Livingston	$2,500,000	$8,000,000
Winton Parkway interchange improvement	Livingston	$2,500,000	$8,000,000
Los Banos “Loop”: Pioneer Rd. and Overland Ave.	Los Banos	$1,000,000	$10,000,000
Hwy. 152 Los Banos bypass	Los Banos	$10,000,000	$260,000,000
Hwy. 165 widening from Pioneer to Henry Miller	Los Banos	$5,000,000	$20,000,000
Buhach Rd. widening	McSwain	$1,400,000	$1,000,000
Buhach / Ashby signalize and rechannel	McSwain, Atwater	$1,000,000	$1,500,000
Mission Ave. improvement	Merced	$4,000,000	$8,000,000
Railroad under crossing at G St.	Merced	$5,000,000	$8,000,000
Campus Parkway - Phase One	Merced	$10,000,000	$57,000,000
Hwy. 59 widening (16th St. to Black Rascal Creek)	Merced	$8,000,000	$23,000,000
Hwy. 59 widening from Childs to Mission Ave.	Merced	$5,000,000	$15,000,000
Hwy. 140 widening from Santa Fe to Campus Pkwy	Merced	$5,000,000	$14,000,000
Signalize Plainsburg Rd. at Hwy. 140	Planada	$400,000	$0


Table 1: Priority Projects Countywide, continued

Project	Where	Plan  Allocation	Other Fund Sources*
Planada sidewalks and curbs	Planada	$1,200,000	$0
Hwy. 140 Bradley Overhead replacement	Planada, Merced	$8,000,000	$39,000,000
Safe Routes to School project	Santa Nella	$200,000	$0
Emma St. sidewalks	Snelling	$300,000	$0
South Dos Palos sidewalks	South Dos Palos	$300,000	$0
Signalize 3rd Ave. at Hwy. 165	Stevinson	$500,000	$100,000
3rd Ave. shoulders and repaving	Stevinson	$1,500,000	$1,000,000
Santa Fe / Winton Way re-alignment (eng. only)	Winton	$1,500,000	$500,000
Winton sidewalks	Winton	$500,000	$500,000
TOTAL of all projects		$223,000,000	$1 billion+

2.	Local Roads Maintenance and Improvements

Forty-four and one-half percent (44.5%) of the funds will be allocated to this program. The decision-maker for
these funds will be the local elected council or board.

This program provides money for local street and road repairs, routine maintenance, safety improvements,
rebuilding roads that have deteriorated due to a lack of funds, and related improvements.

Every year, the funds will be divided among the seven local governments according to a formula, as follows:

•	the County of Merced will receive half (50%) of the funds;

•	each city will receive a base amount of $75,000;

•	the remainder will be allocated to the cities in shares based 2/3 on their population and 1/3 on their maintained centerline road miles.

Table 2 shows how the funds would be divided by jurisdiction assuming $198,000,000 is available over 30 years
for this program.

Table 2: Allocations for Local Roads Maintenance and Improvements

Jurisdiction	Average  Annual  Allocation	30 Year Total
City of Atwater	$550,000	$17,000,000
City of Dos Palos	$225,000	$6,500,000
City of Gustine	$225,000	$6,000,000
City of Livingston	$325,000	$9,500,000
City of Los Banos	$550,000	$17,000,000
City of Merced	$1,425,000	$43,000,000
County of Merced	$3,300,000	$99,000,000
Total	$6,600,000	$198,000,000

3.	Transit Service Improvements

Four and one-half percent (4.5%) of the funds will be allocated to this program. The Merced County Transit Joint
Powers Authority is the decision-maker for allocating these funds. It is estimated that $20 million will be available over
30 years, or about $660,000 per year.

Transit service, transit vehicle purchase, and related transit capital improvements are an essential element of the
county’s transportation system.

Projects which could be funded under this program include:

° stabilization of fares for seniors and the disabled
° extension of service periods
° new and extended routes
• new and low emission transit vehicles
» transit stops and transfer facilities

• and maintenance/fueling fa^.aies

The use of the funds will be consistent with the Short-Range Transit Plan and Annual Transit Service Plan.

Administration

Authority and Governance

This transportation sales tax is authorized under the “Local Transportation Authority and Improvement Act”,
California Public Utilities Code Section 180000 et. Seq. In approving this tax, the voters will authorize that the Merced
County Association of Governments (abbreviated MCAG and referred to as “Association” hereafter) be given the
responsibility to administer the tax proceeds. The Association’s policy- and decision-making body is its Governing
Board, which consists of 11 elected officials in Merced County, as follows:

° all five members of the Merced County Board of Supervisors

• one elected representative from each of the six cities in the county, to be selected by the elected governing
body of each city

Staffing and Administration Expenses

The Association will employ and/or contract staff and professional assistance required to administer the pro-
ceeds of the tax and implement this Expenditure Plan. The total cost of salaries and benefits for administrative
Association employees will not exceed 1% of the revenues generated by the authorized sales tax collected to support
this Plan. The Association will prepare an annual report, identifying the total expenditures for administration, as well
as other costs associated with delivering the program.

Duration of Tax

The duration of the tax will be 30 years. It will begin on October 1, 2006. It will end on August 31,2036.

Use of Funds

Sales tax proceeds will be used to pay for transportation purposes, specifically the programs and projects out-
lined in this Expenditure Plan, and may not be used for any other purpose. Local jurisdictions may not redirect monies
currently being used for transportation purposes to other purposes and then replace the redirected funds with dollars
provided by this tax.

Amendments to the Plan

The Association may annually review and propose amendments to the Expenditure Plan to provide for the use of
additional federal, state, or local funds, to account for unexpected revenue, or to take into consideration unforeseen
circumstances. Amendments to this Plan will require a majority vote (6 of 11 members) of the Governing Board of the
Association, following a noticed public hearing and a 45-day public comment period.

Annual Budget

An Expenditure Plan Budget will be adopted by the Association each year. The Budget will estimate the expect-
ed sales tax receipts and planned expenditures for administration, programs, and projects. The Budget will also iden-
tify the priority for projects and the schedule for each project’s implementation based on its readiness, the availability
of funds from other sources, and other relevant criteria. The Budget will be adopted at a public meeting of the
Association’s Governing Board.

Bonding A uthoritv

The Association will be authorized to use bond financing as an alternative to “pay as you go” financing. The
Association will have the authority to issue bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax for the construction of needed
transportation improvements. The Association, in allocating the annual revenues from the tax, will be responsible for
meeting all debt service requirements prior to allocating funds for other projects.

Establishment of Special Accounts

The Association and each local jurisdiction receiving funds from the tax shall deposit them in a separate interest
bearing Transportation Improvement Account. Any interest earned on funds from the tax will be expended only for
those purposes for which the funds were deposited, or will be returned to the Association.

Development Mitigation

To receive funds from the Local Roads Maintenance and Improvements program of this plan, a jurisdiction must
have a development mitigation program and be collecting transportation impact fees, including, but not limited to, the
Regional Transportation Impact Fee, to insure that new growth pays for its share of the transportation infrastructure
costs associated with that growth.

Accountability

This plan has been designed to provide accountability to the taxpayers and maximum opportunity for public
involvement.

Public Proceedings

All business of the Association will be conducted in an open and public meeting process. All decisions will be
conducted in compliance with the Brown Act, also known as the Open Meeting Law, which requires that meetings of
public bodies must be open and public, and actions may not be secret. The Association will also ensure that ade-
quate public involvement has been included in the preparation of all plans and budgets.

Audit

The Association will hire an independent auditor who will audit all sales tax revenues and expenditures, ensuring
that they are made in accordance with the plan.

Citizen’s Advisory Committee

The Association’s Citizens Advisory Committee will serve as a “watchdog”, overseeing implementation of the
Plan. It will report directly to the public and will be charged with reviewing all matters related to the Expenditure Plan.
The Committee will generally meet once a month. The Committee reviews Association staff work, recommends
actions to the Association Governing Board, and provides staff with input on transportation planning issues. With pas-
sage of the sales tax, the responsibilities of the committee will be expanded to include:

•	issuance of a report, on at least an annual basis, to inform Merced County residents how the Expenditure
Plan funds are being spent

•	review and comment on the independent audit

Citizens Advisory Committee members are private citizens who are not elected officials at any level of govern-
ment, nor public employees from agencies that either oversee or benefit from the proceeds of the sales tax.
Membership is restricted to individuals who live in Merced County. Members must submit a statement of financial dis-
closure and membership will be restricted to individuals with no economic interests in any Association projects or any
projects of its member jurisdictions.

The Committee is designed to reflect the diversity of the County and includes 14 members. Membership is as fol-
lows:

•	Five at-large members will be selected with a consideration to geographic distribution in the county.

* Nine members will be selected to reflect a balance of viewpoints across the county. <summaryend>

