ORDINANCE FOR MEASURE L2006

/

ORDINANCE NO. 06-258

AN ORDINANCE BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF SOLVANG AMENDING SECTION 3-2-2 OF CHAPTER 2 TITLE 6 OF THE SOLVANG
MUNICIPAL CODE PERTAINING TO THE CITY OF SOLVANG TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

SECTION 1. ENACTMENT

Amending Section 3-2-2 (Tax Imposed) of Chapter 2 of Title 3 of the Solvang Municipal Code Is hereby amended to read as follows:

3-2-2: TAX IMPOSED:

(a)	For the privilege of occupancy In any hotel, each transient Is subject to and shall pay a tax In the amount of nine percent (9%) of the rent charged
by the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city, which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The
transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent Is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax
shall be paid with each Installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax is
not paid to the operator of the hotel, the city clerk may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the city clerk.

(b)	For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient Is subject to and shall pay a special tax of two percent (2%) of the rent charged by the
operator on the same terms and conditions set forth In subsection (a). The special tax revenues shall be accounted for In a "Conference and Visitors
Promotion Fund."

(c)	Ail tax revenue deposited in the Conference and Visitors Promotion Fund shall be used exclusively for the promotion of tourism In the City of
Solvang and for no other purpose. In order to achieve this objective, the City shall annually contract with one or more non-profit corporations doing
business In the City of Solvang and established for the purpose of promoting tourism within the City and the Santa Ynex Valley Including but not
limited to the Solvang Conference and Visitors Bureau and/or its successors. The City shall require any body receiving a contract for such services
to make all of its books, records and accounts which in any manner relate to the expenditure of Conference and Visitors Promotion Fund monies
available to the City’s Administrative Services Director (or other appointee of the City Manager) for examination or audit upon reasonable notice. In
addition, the City shall require annual written reports with quarterly verbal reports at City Council Meetings from any such body to demonstrate the
achievement of goals relative to the promotion of tourism in the City.

SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Section of the application thereof to any person or circumstance Is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions
or applications of the Section which can be given effect without the Invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this Section are
severable.

SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE

This Ordinance shall be in force and take effect ten (10) days after the official canvas of the November 7,2006 Election.

ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the City Council held this Bm day of May, 2006 on motion of Council Member Palmer, seconded by
Council Member Richardson, and on the following roll call vote, to wit:

AYES:	Mayor Boyle, Council Members Palmer, Richardson and Smyser

NOES;

ABSENT: Council Member Skytt
ABSTAIN:

ATTEST: Mary Ellen Rio, City Clerk	Eugene	Boyle, Jr., Mayor

N SR 058-034

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
FOR MEASURE L2006

Solvang has previously enacted a Transient Occupancy Tax. That
tax is found in Section 3-2-2 of the Solvang Municipal Code and
Improvised that a general tax equal to 10% of rent shall be charged for a
room rent of 30 days or less. For example, if a hotel room costs $125.00
per night the Transient Occupancy Tax Is $12.50,

This measure would change the existing law by changing the
general tax from 10% to 9%, and imposing a special tax of 2% which
would be segregated in a "Conference and Visitors Promotion Fund" to be
used to promote tourism only in the City of Solvang. For example, if a
hotel room costs $125.00 the total Transient Occupancy Tax would
become $13.75 and of that, $2.50 would go into the Conference and
Visitors Promotion Fund and $11.25 would go Into the General Fund. This
brings in an additional 1% and changes 1% of what used to be a general
tax Into a special tax.

Under this measure, the City would be allowed to contract annually
with a non-profit corporation established to promote tourism In the City of
Solvang and the Santa Yne2 Valley. The contract obligation would
depend on satisfactory performance of approved goals.

Under this measure, any contracting non-profit agency would be
required to prepare and submit an annual accounting of all expenditures
made with thB Conference and Visitors Promotion Fund monies, and also
make its books and records available for review by the City's
Administrative Services Director for examination or audit upon reasonable
notice. Any contracting non-profit agency would also be required to
provide annual reports demonstrating achievement of goals related to
tourism in the City of Solvang.

In order to be adopted the measure must be approved by two-thirds
of the voters voting on it.

Roy A. Hanley, City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L2006

TO PROVIDE THE FUNDING FOR THE PROMOTION OF
SOLVANG

Tourism is Solvang’s major industry. Tourism provides over half of city
revenues. This means less money out of taxpayer pockets to provide for
city administration and services, in order to encourage tourists to visit
Solvang, the City must advertise. Solvang Conference and Visitors
Bureau {SCVB) Is the organization that advertises and promotes Solvang.
Solvang funds the SCVB approximately $400,000 per year - paid from
general funds. Money comes into the general fund from Property Taxes,
Sales Taxes, and Transient Occupancy Taxes (TOT). The current TOT of
10% is charged only to the guests of hotels, motels, and inns and
provides about 1.8 million dollars a year to the city. Measure L2006
proposes to lower the TOT to 9% and impose a special 2% TOT to fund
the SCVB and/or its successors. Last year that 2% would’ve meant more
than $370,000. That 2% will make up the base funding for the SCVB with
the general fund providing for any shortfall In their budget.

Vote YES for Measure L2006.

Measure L200G came about because of a collaboration and yearlong
study for permanent funding for the promotion of Solvang. City Council
authorized a Tourism Task Force made up of Hotel Executives, Chamber
of Commerce, the SCVB, and citizens. The Tourism Task Force found
the most effect way to finance promotion was to enact a special TOT
specifically for funding of the SCVB.

This measure Is endorsed by the Solvang Hotel Association, the Solvang
Chamber of Commerce, the Solvang Conference and Visitors Bureau,
and various members of the travel industry.

Vote YES on Measure L2006

No cost to local residents
Ensures economic Vitality of our community
Supported by Solvang’s hospitality industry
Makes financial sense

Vote YES on Measure L2006

Jim Richardson, Council Member
Paul Navratil

N SR 050-035

MEASURE 02006

ORDINANCE NO 4621

AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF
THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA APPROVING THE
CREATION OF A ZONE WITHIN COUNTY SERVICE
AREA 45 AND AUTHORIZING THE LEVYING OF A
SPECIAL TAX THEREIN

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors (the "Board of Supervisors") of the County of Santa Barbara (the "County") has formed County
Service Are No. 45 (Lompoc Library), under and pursuant to the County Service Area Law, Government Code Section 25210, and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors (the "Board of Supervisors") of the County of Santa Barbara (the "County") has formed
Vandenberg Village Community Services District, under and pursuant to the Community Services District Law, Government Code Section 6100,
and

WHEREAS, on July 18, 2006 the Board of Supervisors (the "Board of Supervisors") of the County of Santa Barbara (the "County”)
adapted a resolution entitled "A Resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Barbara Initiating Proceedings to Create a Zone of
County Service Area No. 45 and Authorizing the Levying of Special Taxes Therein"

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has held noticed public hearings on August B, 2006 and September 12, 2006 on the creation of a
zone within County Service Area No. 45 and the authorization of levying special taxes on the parcels within said zone;

WHEREAS, at the hearings, the testimony of all Interested persons and taxpayers for or against the creation of the zone was heard and
no oral or written protests against the creation of the zone or the levying of any specified special tax were made or filed at or before the hearing and
the hearing was concluded on this date;

WHEREAS, an election will be held on November 7, 2006 in which the qualified electors of the area proposed to be created approved
said proposition by more than the two-thirds vote required by Proposition 218;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Barbara as follows:

Section 1, The foregoing recitals are true and correct.

Section 2. A new Zone of Benefit in County Service Are No. 45 is hereby formed, with its boundary being coterminous with the
Vandenberg Village Community Services District, with the expressed purpose of funding enhanced library services for the Vandenberg Village
library. Creation of this Zone of Benefit is subject to voter approval of the special tax as provided in Sections 2 and 3, below.

Section 3. Subject to approval by 2/3 of the registered voters voting on the question, “Shall a new special tax be authorized for
Imposition, within a newly created Zone of Benefit within County Service Area No. 45, in the amount of $22 per parcel for the purpose of funding
enhanced library services?" the special tax assessment is hereby levied on the parcels within the zone.

Section 4. Subject to approval by 2/3 of the registered voters voting on the question, the rate and method of apportionment of the special
tax (the "Rate and Method"), In sufficient detail to allow each landowner within the proposed zone to estimate the maximum amount that he or she
will have to pay, is described In Exhibit A attached hereto, which Is by this reference incorporated herein. The special tax will be collected in the
same manner as ordinary ad valorem property taxes or In such other manner as the Board of Supervisors shall determine, including direct billing of
the affected property owners.

Section 5. The Clerk of the Board is directed to record forthwith In the Office of the Santa Barbara County ClBrk Recorder a certified
copy of this Ordinance and further directed to file forthwith a certified copy of this Ordinance with the Santa Barbara County Auditor-Controller.

Section 6. Upon recordation of a notice of special tax lien pursuant to Government Code 25210.781, a continuing lien to secure each levy
of the special tax shall attach to all nonexempt real property in the zone of the County Service Area No 45 and this lien shall continue In force and
effect until the special tax obligation is prepaid and permanently satisfied and the lien canceled in accordance with law or until collection of the tax
by the Board of Supervisors ceases.

Section 7. This Ordinance shall take effect Immediately upon its adoption.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Barbara, State of California, this _ day of _ 2006, by the
following vote:

AYES: Supervisors Carbajal, Firestone, Gray, Centeno
NOES: None

ABSENT: Supervisor Rose
ABSTAIN: None

Signed:

Joni Gray,

Chair, Board of Supervisors
County of Santa Barbara

N SR 052-036

EXHIBIT A

SPECIAL TAX LEVY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2005-2007

MAXIMUM SPECIAL TAXES
For Fiscal Year 2006-2007

Zone of Benefit, County Service Area No 45, Library Services

1.	The Special Tax for Fiscal Year 2006-2007 for each parcel within the zone is shown below. The special tax rate will escalate each
fiscal year by the greater of the change In the Los Angeles Urban Consumer Price Index during the past 12 months or 2%.

2,	Calculation derived as shown:

Vandenberg Village Library Budget for Enhanced Services: 550,050.

(Library Open Eight Additional Hours a Week)

Total Taxable Parcels within the Zone of County Service Area No. 45: 2,396

Per Parcel Cost ($50,050/2,396+ $1 admin fee): 522 a year

N SR 052-037

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE 02006
LOMPOC COUNTY LIBRARY

Article XIII A, Section 1(a) of the California Constitution limits the ad
valorem tax on real property to not exceed one (1%) percent of the full
cash value of such property. Article XIII C, Section 2(c) provides that no
local government may impose, extend, or Increase any special tax unless
and until that tax is submitted to the electorate and approved by a two-
thirds vote.

This measure, If approved by two-thirds of the voters voting at thB
election, would impose a special tax of $22 per parcel annually for the
first year, In the Vandenberg Village area. The tax would be in addition to
existing taxes, fees and assessments for the parcels. 2,369 parcels in
this Zone of Benefit within the larger County Service Area 45 would be
subject to this special tax. County Service Area 45 Is governed by the
Santa Barbara County Board of Supervisors,

The purpose of the tax is to pay for additional library services. By law,
the tax proceeds are restricted to use for library purposes to serve the
residents of the Zone of Benefit, The amount generated by the proposed
tax is around $50,000 annually, and Is estimated to be sufficient to keep
the local library open an additional eight hours per week and provide an
additional $10,000 per year for library materials and expenses. This
measure provides that the proposed special tax, if approved, will be
increased annually In future years by the greater of the change In the
Los Angeles Urban Consumer Price Index during the past 12 months, or
2%.

Failure of the measure will result in no change to annual
funding levels for library services In the affected area.

STEPHEN SHANE STARK, COUNTY COUNSEL

By: Michael R. Ledbetter, Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 02006

For 30 years, the Village Library has been a vital community resource,
offering books, books on tape and CD, downloadable audio books,
programs for children and adults, and wireless Internet access.

The Measure O benefit assessment for the Village Library will result In
Increased hours, a full time librarian who will have time to work with
community groups, an increased budget for books and other materials,
and the development of new services, such as homework and tutoring
programs with access to school district materials. The full time librarian
will be able to work with daycare providers, teachers, civic groups, and
businesses to better meet the needs of the community.

In recent years, decreases in the Village library budget have meant fewer
hours, less professional time, and less funds for materials. The library
would have been closed on several occasions if not for the generous
donations from some Village residents and groups, such as the Friends
of the Library, the Village Rotary Club, and the Library Foundation.

Measure O provides Village residents the opportunity to show they value
our library and support this vital community resource.

With the passage of Measure O, our staff and volunteers will no longer
have to endure more reduced hours and cuts, such as the recent 90%
reduction in the materials budget, or the threat of permanent closure.
Measure O money will go directly to the Village library.

Please savB our library so it can grow into an important community hub.
Help create a legacy for Vandenberg Village by voting YES on Measure O.

The undersigned proponents or authors of the primary argument In favor
of Ballot Measure 02006 at the General Election to be held on November
7, 2006, hereby state that such argument is true and correct to the best
of their knowledge and belief. Signed and Dated:

Mary Ellen Brooks, Co-Chairman YES on Measure O Committee
Kay Eatmon, Co-Chairman YES on Measure O Committee

Robert Vossler, Treasurer YES on Measure O Committee
Richard Taylor, Educator/Library and Community Volunteer

N SR 052-038