<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
AMADOR COUNTY VECTOR CONTROL DISTRICT
MEASURE J

State law requires that the County Counsel provide an impartial analysis of any County
measure. This is that analysis for a proposed tax to support the Amador County Vector
Control District.

A “yes” vote by a two-thirds majority of the voters voting on Measure J would authorize
the collection of a parcel tax of eleven dollars ($11) on each parcel within the County,
including within cities, except that contiguous parcels owned by the same owner would be
taxed $11 collectively. The tax is subject to an inflation adjustment not to exceed five percent
(5%) annually. If Measure J is approved, the tax will be imposed beginning in tax year
2007-2008 along with property taxes.

The Board of Supervisors voted to form The Amador County Vector Control District
subject to two-thirds voter approval of the special tax described above. The sole function
and purpose of the District is to abate mosquitoes and other vectors so as to reduce the
incidence of vectorborne diseases, such as West Nile Virus. The tax revenue may be used
for the sole purpose of preventing occurrence of vectors and vectorborne diseases and to
abate or control vectors and vectorborne diseases, all as set forth in Health and Safety
Code section 2040.

The Legislature has determined that the protection of Californians and their communities
against the discomforts and economic effects of vectorborne diseases is an essential public
service that is vital to public health, safety, and welfare and that adequate protection of
human health against vectorborne diseases is best achieved by organized public programs.

The District will be managed by a board of trustees initially composed of one elector
appointed by each city council and one by the Board of Supervisors. They may be members
of those legislative bodies.

A “no” vote of more than a third of the voters voting thereon will cause the tax measure
to fail. <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> s/ John F. Hahn
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<fiscal> FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT BY COUNTY AUDITOR
AMADOR COUNTY VECTOR CONTROL DISTRICT
MEASURE J

The Amador County Vector Control District will impose a parcel tax of $11 on approximately
19,525 parcels if Measure J is approved. The revenues raised will be $214,775 beginning
fiscal year 2007-08. This parcel tax is subject to an inflation adjustment not to exceed five
percent (5%) annually. <fiscalend>






<fiscalsigs> s// Joe Lowe
Auditor-Controller <fiscalsigsend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J

Formation of the Amador County Vector Control District is essential to protect the public
health of all County residents. The District's program will focus on the prevention of more
human cases of West Nile virus, which is transmitted by certain kinds of mosquitoes that
are the vectors (carriers) of the virus. West Nile virus has caused human illness and death
in the County. In addition to humans, the virus also affects horses. The District will operate
a sustained program, which will be available for protection from West Nile and other vectorborne
diseases that may threaten County citizens.

The District will operate under local control. Under law, the District will be governed by
a Board of Trustees appointed by the County Board of Supervisors and each incorporated
city within Amador County.

The District will be cost-effective. It will operate through the existing County-wide
administrative structure but will have its own dedicated funding and will not burden the County’s
general fund. The small per-parcel assessment will support an organized program concentrating
on disease prevention by performing surveillance and control of mosquitoes that are vectors
of disease. The costs associated with a single severe case of West Nile virus can be a great
deal more than the annual cost of the District’s program. The District will also provide a
mechanism to accept State or Federal support funds as they may become available.

The District will be one of dozens of others within the State of California with long
histories of effectiveness, and will be a member of a statewide team working together to
protect the health of our citizens. Please support forming the Amador County Vector Control
District by voting in favor of Measure J. <favorend>





<favorsigs> /s/ Don J. Womeldorf
Public Health Biologist <favorsigsend>






NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED