CITY OF LARKSPUR

RESOLUTION NO. 28/06

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LARKSPUR
PROPOSING TO CONTINUE THE SPECIAL TAX FOR PARAMEDIC SERVICES
FOR AN ADDITIONAL FOUR YEARS; AND CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF
THE HOLDING OF AN ELECTION TO BE HELD NOVEMBER 7,2006, AND
REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF MARIN TO
CONSOLIDATE SAID ELECTION; AND AUTHORISING THE CITY CLERK OR
HER DULY AUTHORIZED OFFICERS AND AGENCY TO CARRY OUT ALL THE
NECESSARY PROCEDURES FOR SAID ELECTION SUBMITTING TO THE
VOTERS THE QUESTION RELATING TO CONTINUING THE SPECIAL TAX

FOR PARAMEDIC SERVICES

WHEREAS, on November 5,2002, the voters of the City of Larkspur approved a special

tax for the funding of paramedic services in the City for four years through the
Ross Valley Paramedic Authority of not to exceed $30.00 per year for each
living unit as a basic charge; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Larkspur and the Board of Directors of the
Ross Valley Paramedic Authority does hereby call for an election on
November 7,2006, for the purpose of increasing the special tax for paramedic
services for an additional four years to a maximum amount of $48 (.50 cents
County fee) per residential unit in the fourth year, and $48 (.50 cents Counly
fee) per 1500 square feet of commercial in the fourth year; and

WHEREAS, under the provisions of the laws relating to general law cities in the State of
California, an election shall be held on November 7,2006, for the submission
to the voters of a question relating to continuing the special tax for paramedic
services; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the election be consolidated with the statewide election to
be held on the same date, and that within the City, the precincts, polling
places, and election officers of the two elections be the same; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the County Election Department of the County of Marin
canvass the returns of the Special Municipal Election and that the election be
handled in all respects as if there were only one election; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters at the election a question
relating to continuing the special tax for paramedic services,

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LARKSPUR DOES

RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE, AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1.
Section 2.

Section 3.

Section 4.

Section 5.
Section 6.

Section 7.

Section 8.
Section 9.
Section 10.

The City Council is authorized to present a proposition to the voters for their
consideration pursuant to Government Code Sections 50077 and 53724.

That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California
relating to General Law Cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the
City of Larkspur, California, on Tuesday, November 7,2006, an election to
submit the question set forth in Section 4 hereof to the voters within the City.

That pursuant to the requirements of Section 10400 et seq. of the Elections
Code, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Marin is hereby requested to
consent and agree to the consolidation of said election.

That the City Council, pursuant to its rights and authority, does order
submitted to the voters at the election the following question:

Shall a resolution be approved to increase the special taxfor paramedic
services for an additionalfour years to a maximum amount of $48 (.SO
cents County fee) per residential unit in the fourth year, and $48 (.50 cents
Countyfee) per 1500 square feet of commercial in the fourth year?

The special tax to be approved by the voters pursuant to Section 4 shall be set
forth in Resolution No. 29/06.

The election to be held in the City and all matters pertaining thereto shall be
conducted in accordance with the general election laws of the State of
California, as may be applicable to the City.

The Council authorizes the Mayor to prepare a written argument in favor of
the ballot proposition, not to exceed 300 words. At the discretion of the
Mayor, the argument may also be signed by bona fide associations or by
individual voters who are eligible to vote.

The City Clerk is directed to cause the posting, publication, and printing of
notices and all other matters pursuant to the requirements of the Elections and
Government Codes of the State of California.

That the County Election Department is authorized to canvass the returns of
said election. The election will be held in all respects as if there were only
one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

That the Board of Supervisors is respectfully requested to issue instructions to
the County Election Department to take any and all steps necessary for the
hol ding of the consolidated elections.

Section 11.	That the City Cleric is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this resolution

with the Board of Supervisors and the County Election Department of the

County of Marin.

Section 12. That the City Cleric shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution
and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

Section 13.	If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this resolution is found to

be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such finding shall affect only such
provision, sentence, clause, section or part, and shall not affect or impair any
of the remaining parts of the resolution.

Section 14. This resolution shall be effective upon its adoption.

IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the City Council of the City of Larkspur duly introduced
and regularly adopted the foregoing resolution at a special meeting held on the 5th day of
July, 2006 by the following vote, to-wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

COUNCILMEMBERS:
COUNCILMEMBERS:
COUNCILMEMBERS:

Chu, Hartzell, Hillmer, Lundstrom

ATTEST:



"LERK



IMPARTIAL CITY ATTORNEY ANALYSIS

MEASURE “D”

SPECIAL TAX FOR PARAMEDIC SERVICES

In conjunction with other local governments in the Ross Valley, the City Council
of the City of Larkspur placed Measure D on the November 7, 2006 ballot to ask
the voters to consider continuing and increasing the amount of an existing parcel
tax that funds paramedic services provided by the Ross Valley Paramedic
Authority (“RVPA”).

A tax funding the RVPA has existed since 1983 and was last increased by the
voters in 1991. In 2002, the voters of Larkspur approved continuing the tax at
the 1991 rate. Currently, the tax is $30 per year for each residential unit and
each 1,500 square feet of commercial space within the City of Larkspur. The
revenue from the tax may be used only to fund the operating costs of the RVPA,
the sole function of which is to provide paramedic services. The tax is a
significant source of funding for RVPA operations. Unless extended, the tax will
expire automatically on June 30, 2007.

Measure D proposes to continue the tax for an additional four years, to June 30,
2011. It also proposes to increase the tax as follows: in the first year (2007-08),
the tax rate would increase to $39; thereafter, the maximum rate would increase
by $3 annually, to $48 in the final year (2010-11). The RVPA Board would be
allowed to set the rate for each year at any amount up to that year’s maximum.
The Board’s decision regarding each year’s rate would be based on the RVPA’s
financial needs at the time. Use of the tax revenue would continue to be
restricted to the provision of paramedic services. After June 30, 2011, the tax
would expire, unless extended by another vote.

A “yes” vote means that the tax will be continued for four years; that the tax rate
will be increased to $39 next year; and that the RVPA Board of Directors may
increase the tax annually by $3, up to a maximum of $48 in the final year. A “no”
vote means that the tax will terminate on June 30, 2007.

Voter approval of Measure D is required by Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution. The tax proposed will not become effective unless approved by
two-thirds of the voters voting on the Measure. A copy of the resolution
approving the tax is included in the sample ballot.

Dated: August 21,2006

Sky Woodruff
City Attorney

851976-1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Since 1983, the voters in the Ross Valley have overwhelmingly approved a
special tax to provide paramedic service. To continue this high standard of
emergency medical care for four more years, you must now re-approve this
tax. The initial Ross Valley Paramedic Authority (RVPA) tax provided for a
single ambulance. The demand for paramedic service from our citizens
dictates that service levels continue to expand and evolve. We ask that you
consider a modest increase of $9 in the first year and if needed a $3 annual
increase in the remaining 3 years, in order to maintain our current levels of
service and to plan for future improvements based on community demand
for high quality, fire department based, advanced life support paramedic
services.

Your parcel tax pays for a significant portion of the paramedic program and
enables us not to directly bill our Ross Valley resident customers.

Additional funds are collected from medical insurance companies and
through billing of non-resident customers. In addition, your tax covers
expenses associated with paramedic training, medical supplies and
equipment, and the replacement of ambulance vehicles when needed.

Our goal is to continue to provide state of the art paramedic care in the Ross
Valley. We need your vote to continue this vital service. Vote YES on
Measure D.

1

By: CITY OE LARKSPUR;	415	927	5022;	Aug-17-06 11:15;	Page	2/2

VERIFICATION STATEMENT FOR ARGUMENTS/REBUTTALS

The undersigned proponent(s) or author(s) of ballot measure letter P

primary argument x	or	rebuttal	__________

argument in favor of _________ or	against	________

at the Consolidated General Electron, November 7, 2006, for the Jurisdictiorurf----

the city of Larkspur	hereby	state	that	such	argument	is	true	and	correct	to	the	best

of his/her/their knowledge and belief.

Signed:

D

Larry onu __________

(Print Name)

Larry Chu

116 Alexander Avenue. Larkspur
(Residence Address)

Mayor. City of Larkspur

(Title is Optional)

2)

(PiWName)

(Residence Address)

(Title is Optional)

3)

4)

Ron Arias	___________

‘	(Print	Name)

14 Harvard Drive, Larkspur

(Residence Address)

Vice Mayor, City of Larkspur
(Title is Optional)

(Print Name)	"

(Residence Address)

(Title is Optional)

5)

(Print Name)

(Residence Address)

CU.

(Signature)

lib	(h=L.-	,

Mailing Address)	I

st- n-cce

/	,	-	(oignaiurej-..>

r MailingAddress)

Will6 h

(Date Signed)

mi - jJj y\ a _ //^

V vmMLUL/W^r ' \ - IA/V
/ ""fa	(Signature)

In	J/\.

(Mailing



(Date Signed)

(Signature)

(Mailing Address)
(Date Signed)

(Signature)

(Mailing Address)

(Title is Optional)

(Date Signed)

(El. Code 9600)