
<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

SOLANO TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT AUTHORITY SALES TAX PROPOSAL

Measure H will authorize the Solano Transportation Improvement Authority ("Authority”) to impose a one-half cent sales tax for a maximum period of 30
years to fund the specific traffic relief and safety improvements, projects and programs identified in the County Transportation Expenditure Plan.

The measure requires approval by two-thirds of the voters voting on it.

The Authority adopted Ordinance No. 2006-01, which imposes the sales tax subject to approval by the voters.

It is estimated that the sales tax will generate $1.57 billion in revenue for the countywide transportation projects. These revenues can be used for
necessary matching funds for State and Federal transportation grants as well as for funding locally generated transportation improvements. The revenues
will be used to supplement and not replace existing local revenues used for transportation purposes.

The Expenditure Plan and the Ordinance require that the tax revenues will be allocated and applied for the following specific purposes:

1. Highway corridor improvements and safety plans:	40%

I-80/I-680/SR12 Interchange
1-80/1-680/1-780 Corridor (Vallejo to Dixon)

SR 12 Corridor (Jameson Canyon and 1-80 to Rio Vista)

SR 113 Corridor (1-80 to SR 12)

2. Maintenance and repair of local streets and roads:	20%
3. Senior and disabled transit:	7%
4. Commuter transit:	12%
5. Safety projects and safe routes to schools:	10%
6. Local return-to-source projects:	10%
7. Administration:	1%

The administration expenditures for payment of Authority salaries and benefits and other expenses and services necessary to administer the Ordinance
cannot exceed one percent (1%) of the annual revenues.

The measure requires the appointment of an independent taxpayers' watchdog committee to review and audit the revenues, expenditures and delivery
of projects and programs to ensure that the funds are spent only for the specific purposes approved by the voters. The committee will meet on at least a
quarterly basis and will annually present a report to the Authority's governing board for its review and any appropriate action.

At least every 10 years, the Authority will conduct a comprehensive review of the Expenditure Plan and make any necessary revisions to the plan based
on changed demographic conditions, transportation needs, revenues and improved technology. The voters must approve all substantial changes by a
majority vote.

The Authority may annually review and propose amendments to the Expenditure Plan to provide for the use of additional funds, account for unexpected
revenues, or to address unforeseen circumstances. To approve an amendment, the Board of Supervisors and the City Councils of a majority of the cities
with a majority of the incorporated population must first approve it and then the approval by 3/4ths of the Authority members voting on it.

The measure authorizes the Authority to issue limited bonds to finance the transportation projects. The bonds will be paid from the sales tax revenues.

A “YES” VOTE favors the levying for 30 years of a one-half cent sales lax for specified transportation purposes.

A ’’NO’’VOTE opposes the levying for 30 years of a one-half cent sales tax for specified transportation purposes.

Dated:	March	17,2006 <impartialend>








<impartialsigs> s/ Dennis Bunting
Solano County Counsel <impartialsigsend>









<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

Vote YES on Measure H to make our roads safer, maintain our
streets, relieve traffic congestion and keep Solano County moving.

Vote YES to attack Solano County's worst traffic problems:

•	Fix potholes, resurface city streets and county roads

•	Widen and improve safety on 1-80,1-680, SR12and SR113

•	Fix the I-80/I-680/SR 12 interchange

•	Improve commuter bus, rail and ferry services

•	Expand transit for seniors and persons with disabilities

Vote YES on Measure H to shorten emergency response times by
police, firefighters and ambulances.

Vote YES to make our local roads safer:

•	improve dangerous intersections

•	Synchronize traffic signals

•	Improve safety along bicycle and pedestrian routes near schools
Vote YES on Measure H to speed our commutes:

•	Triple express bus service along the major corridors

•	Add ferries and improve facilities for Vallejo's BayLink Ferry
•  Add three Commuter Amtrak trains to the Capitol Corridor

connection Solano County with BART, the Bay Area and
Sacramento

Vote YES to provide local matching funds so Solano County can com-
pete for state and federal tax dollars with counties that do provide a local
match. State and federal funds by themselves are insufficient: we
must have a guaranteed local source to finance transportation improve-
ments.

Your YES vote on Measure H will protect our tax dollars.

•	An independent Taxpayer oversight committee will hold
elected officials accountable and will review financial audits to
ensure voter mandates are met.

•	Measure H dollars can’t be used for anything except local traffic
congestion relief and transportation improvements.

•	No more than 1% can go for administration.

Measure H guarantees transportation dollars raised in Solano
County will stay in Solano County to fight traffic congestion.

Solano County chambers of commerce, taxpayers, environmentalists,
senior organizations, emergency responders, neighborhood groups and
thousands of your neighbors agree; Vote YES on Measure H. <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/ James R. Pouliot

CEO, AAA-CA State Automobile Association s/ Jon D. Riley

Vice President Firefighters #1186

s/ Mayrene Bates

Member, Solano County Board of Education

s/ John Nerland

President of Solano Bank <favorsigsend>  








<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

H...NO!

Politicians are trying to raise our taxes again! Twice before, we said
NO! They say it’s different this time. Is it?

Are we responsible for fixing congestion at the 1-80/1-680 interchange?
No! That job belongs to the federal and state governments. They collect
Hundreds of Billions of dollars every year - money that's supposed to
build and maintain highways - and waste it on “pork” that does nothing to
solve our problems. Should we pay any more?

NO!

What about this talk of “matching funds?” We’re told that we have to
tax ourselves in order to tap into pots of state and federal money. That’s
not true. Sixty percent of the tax is for “local” projects - things like
street and traffic lights that cities and the County can’t fund, because of the
huge pay and pension increases they gave to their employees.

Do we want more mass transit that hardly anybody uses? Like buses
that run mostly empty? Our taxes already subsidize mass transit to the
tune of 50% to 80%! And they want to add buses! They want us to pay
for more of those wasteful programs.

NO!

Higher sales taxes will make merchants in Solano County less competitive.
We’ve seen businesses leave because government regulation and taxes
have gotten so bad. Let’s not make things worse!

And remember, higher sales taxes hit senior citizens and lower-income
households harder than the average. Is that fair? NO!

Measure H is the same old scam.

Tell the politicians, H...NO! <rebutfavorend>










<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Vern F. Van Buskirk, President

Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group

s/ William G. Hayes

Former Mayor, Benicia; Former Chairman, Solano Transportation
Authority

s/ Murray T. Bass

Columnist, Certified Financial Planner

s/ John F. Takeuchi

Secretary, Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group <rebutfavorsigsend>









<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

"There they go again!" --- President Ronald Reagan

This is the third time. Politicians tried this before - twice - and voters told
them. “No!” But... there they go again.

Remember their pie chart? It showed where they were going to get One
Billion Dollars to fix the 1-80 / 680 interchange: 25% from the federal
government, 25% from CalTrans, 25% from the proposed sales tax, and
25% from Who-knows-where. Guess what? Neither the federal nor the
state governments has allocated that money! The pie chart is a dream!

Did you go to any of those public meetings where they asked people to
suggest projects? Guess what? The Big Spenders packaged those wish
lists into Measure H as “local” projects - to the tune of 60% of the total
revenues. And what do you suppose our county and city politicians will
do with that money? They'll use some of it for work not funded because of
their poor budgeting. They voted for the tax because it will help cover their
mistakes. We used to call that bribery!

Have you gotten tired of hearing them say, “matching funds?” They want
us to think that there’s a pot of money out there, just waiting for us. All we
have to do is increase taxes for “our share.” Well, we’ve already paid our
share - Tens of Billions in gasoline and diesel taxes! Pay to get back
our own money? That’s extortion!

Tell the politicians, Measure H?

Not only No-but H...NO I <againstend>








<againstsigs> Central Solano Citizen / Taxpayer Group
s/ Vern F. Buskirk, President

s/ Catherine M. Ritch

Retired Legislative Analyst, Orange County CA

s/ William G. Hayes

Former Mayor, Benicia; Former Chairman, Solano Transportation
Authority

s/ Murray T. Bass

Columnist Certified Financial Planner

Solano County Taxpayers Association
s/ James L. Williams, President <againstsigsend>










<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

Somebody can always come up with reasons why we shouldn’t do
something. But when we are presented with a solution to a serious
problem — Measure H — we should seize the opportunity.

Measure H opponents offer no reasonable alternatives for fixing our roads,
relieving traffic congestion or saving lives. They’re out of step with most
key leaders in Solano County, who agree ignoring our most troubling local
issue isn't an option.

Measure H establishes a contract with voters, locking in an investment plan
that fixes pothole and maintains roads, upgrades safety at high-accident
locations and on school routes, and relieves congestion.

Measure H benefits every Solano County taxpayer -- from Benicia to
Suisun and Vallejo to Dixon. It legally binds politicians and bureaucrats
to spend the money the way we tell them and guarantees only voters can
make any changes to the plan.

Measure H imposes strong taxpayer protections, including an independent
citizen oversight committee and annual audits to ensure the money
is spent properly. And only 1% of Measure H funds can be used for
administration.

“When traffic is tied up, as it often is in Solano County, our ability to
respond to emergencies can be severely limited,” says Vallejo Fire Captain
Jon Riley, Firefighters Local #1186. 'That’s why public safety officials urge
you to Vote Yes on Measure H.”

Just saying 'No' brings us nothing but more gridlock and tragedies.
Measure H allows us to finally take control of our transportation destiny.

To learn more, visit www.YesOnMeasureH.com. Vote Yes on Measure H. <rebutagainstend>











<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Charles Lomeli
Treasurer-Tax Collector-County Clerk

s/ Robert M. Simpson

President & CEO Jelly Belly Candy Company

s/ Verna E. Mustico

Chairman, Vallejo Chamber of Commerce

s/ Jeannie Hamann

Member, Solano County Taxpayers for Traffic Relief and Safety

s/ Kathleen P. Marianno

Member, Fairfield-Suisun School Board <rebutagainstsigsend>









<full> ORDINANCE NO. 2006-01

AN ORDINANCE OF THE
SOLANO TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT AUTHORITY
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

SOLANO TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT AUTHORITY
ORDINANCE NO. 01-2006

The Solano Transportation Improvement Authority (“Authority”) ordains as follows:

PART ONE-

TITLE: RECITALS: IMPOSITION OF TAX: CALL FOR ELECTION

Section 1. Title

This Ordinance shall be known as the Solano County Transportation Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The Solano Transportation
Improvement Authority hereinafter shall be called “Authority.” This Ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory
of the County of Solano, which geographical area shall be referred to herein as “District” unless the context of the ordinance would be best
served by use of the term “Solano County.”

Section 2. Recitals

A.	This Ordinance is adopted in accordance with California Public Utilities Code Sections 180000 et seq. and shall be known and may be
cited as the Solano Transportation Improvement Ordinance (#2006-01), hereinafter referred to as the “Ordinance," which establishes a
retail transactions and use tax for a thirty year period commencing October 1,2006. The sales tax created by this Ordinance shall be
known as the “Solano County Improvement Authority Transportation Transactions and Use Tax."

B.	The Solano Transportation Improvement Authority is a “local transportation authority” established under the provisions of the Public
Utilities Code §§180,000 by the Solano County Board of Supervisors through adoption of Board Resolution 2004-027. The members
of the Board of the Solano Transportation Improvement Authority are Solano County and each of the seven cities in Solano County:
Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo and each agency shall have a member on the 8-person governing
Board of the Solano Transportation Improvement Authority.

C.	This Ordinance provides for the implementation of the ‘Traffic Relief and Safety Plan for Solano County”, hereinafter “Expenditure Plan”
or “Plan”, as approved and adopted by the Authority, by Solano County and by the cities in Solano County representing more than one
half of the cities with more than one half of the population within the incorporated area of the District. The Plan will result in countywide
transportation facility and service improvements including local street and regional highway improvements, public transit services and
improvements, local transportation projects and related transportation programs. The revenues will be deposited in a special fund and
used exclusively for transportation projects and programs identified in the Plan. The specific projects and programs to be implemented
are described in the Plan which is considered a part of this Ordinance and hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

Section 3. Imposition of a Retail Transactions and Use Tax for Transportation Purposes

In addition to any other taxes authorized by law, there is hereby imposed in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of
Solano, in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code which
provisions are adopted by reference and Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code commencing with Code Section 180000, a retail transactions
and use tax at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2%) for a period not to exceed thirty years in addition to any existing or future authorized
state or focal transactions and use tax. This tax is a special tax and the proceeds are for transportation projects and improvements.

Section 4. Call for Election

The Authority hereby requests the Solano County Board of Supervisors place this ordinance before the voters for approval on the June 6,2006
ballot.

The proposition to be placed on the ballot shall read substantially as follows:

To relieve traffic congestion and match state/federal grants, this measure will:

•	Fix I-80/I-680/SR12 Interchange

•	Widen and improve safety on I-80/I-680/SR12/SR113

•	Fix potholes; resurface city streets and county roads

•	Improve safety at high accident locations and schools

•	Improve commuter bus, rail and ferry services; expand transit for seniors/disabled

•	Require annual audits by independent taxpayers committee to ensure all voter mandates are met
by authorizing half-cent sales tax for 30 years

PART TWO:

EXPENDITURE PLAN: LOCAL MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT

Section 5. Expenditure Plan

Pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance, the recitals above and State Law, the Authority does hereby adopt the Expenditure Plan attached
to this Ordinance and incorporated herein as Exhibit “A."

Section 6. Summary of Expenditure Plan Project

In the allocation of all revenues made available from the retail transactions and use tax, the Authority shall make every effort to maximize State
and Federal transportation funding to the District. Subject to the provisions of Section 13, the Authority may amend the Expenditure Plan, in
accordance with Sections 26 and 36, as needed, to maximize the transportation funding to District. As set forth in the Expenditure Plan, the
transportation sales tax revenues shall be allocated to the Project of the Expenditure Plan in those percentages described in the chart below (All
amounts in 2006 dollars):

	Program Name	Estimated Funding (millions)	%.
A.	Highway Corridor Improvements and Safety Projects  Provide congestion relief, operational enhancements, and safety improvements.  •	I-80/I-680/SR12 Interchange  •	1-80/1-680/SR12 Corridor Improvements and Safety  •	SR 12 Corridor and Safety Improvements: Jameson Canyon widening (designed in accordance with Caltrans Limited Access Highway Standards) and SR 12 East (1-80 to Rio Vista)  •	SR 113 Corridor Improvements and Safety (1-80 to SR 12)	$625	40%
B.	Maintenance and Repair of Local Streets and Roads  Provide an annual allocation funds to each city and the County to maintain and rehabilitate local streets and roads.	$315	20%
C.	Senior and Disabled Transit  •	Improve transit services for seniors and disabled persons  •	Fare discounts and improved intercity transit and paratransit  •	Expanded evening and weekend transit to medical facilities, shopping and senior centers	$115	7%
D.	Commuter Transit  •	New Commuter Rail Service (Solano County to Bay Area and Sacramento with connections to Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield/Vacaville, and Suisun City)  •	Expanded and/or New Express Bus Service on 1-80/1-680/1780 and SR 12 Corridors (with connec- tions to all Solano County Cities)  •	Expanded Vallejo Baylink Ferry Service	$190	12%
E.	Safety Projects and Safe Routes to Schools  •	improve safe routes to schools  •	Signage, traffic lights, road intersection safety improvements  •	Railroad grade separations  •	Emergency repairs, protection and mitigation for transportation facilities caused by natural or man-made disasters such as flooding, earthquakes and acts of terrorism  •	Improving key bottlenecks for emergency vehicles driving during peak commute hours  •	Improving safe routes to transit adjacent to major transit stations	$155	10%
F.	Local Return-to-Source Projects  Annual allocation of funds through fair share population formula for local transportation related projects as determined by each community to address local needs such as:  •	Additional local road rehabilitation and safety projects  •	Improving local interchanges  •	Pedestrian improvements for downtowns  •	Expanded local transit service  •	Building local transit centers  •	Other local transportation and safety projects  •	Projects funded under this category will be consistent with the goals, objectives and policies contained in the Transportation for Livable Communities (TLC) Plan and Programs of the Solano Transportation Authority and the Metropolitan Transportation Commission as determined by the Solano Transportation Authority.	$155	10%
G.	Administration	$15	1%
	Total Estimated Revenues Available	$1,570	100%

Section 7. Local Maintenance of Effort Programs

It is the intent of the Legislature and the Authority that revenues provided from this Ordinance be used to supplement, not replace, existing
revenues being used for transportation improvements and programs as referenced in Section 3 herein and as provided in the Expenditure Plan.

Each local agency receiving revenues for maintenance and repair of local streets and roads shall, beginning in Fiscal Year 2006-2007 and
thereafter, annually maintain, as a minimum, the same level of local discretionary funds expended for street and road maintenance purposes
over Fiscal Year 2005-2006 for pavement sealing, overlays, reconstruction, and associated under drainage, as required, excluding any local
funds expended for the purpose of storm damage repair as verified by an independent auditor. One-time allocations that have been expended
for street and highway purposes, but which may not be available on an ongoing basis, shall not be considered when calculating a local
agency’s base-period level of local discretionary funds expended for street and road maintenance purposes. The Authority shall not allocate
any revenues to any eligible local agency in any fiscal year until that local agency has certified to the Authority that it will include in its budget
for that fiscal year an amount of local discretionary funding for streets and roads purposes at least equal to the minimum maintenance of effort
requirement. Any local agency which does not meet its maintenance of effort requirement in any given year shall increase its maintenance of
effort requirement the following year by the amount the local agency did not meet its required maintenance of effort level in the previous year
in order to be eligible for local maintenance of streets and roads funds. A local agency which does not meet its local maintenance of effort for
two consecutive years and that meets its minimum maintenance of effort level in the third year shall have its funding in such year reduced by
the amount the agency did not meet its required maintenance of effort level for the two prior years. Any local streets and road revenues not
allocated pursuant to the maintenance effort requirement shall be redistributed to the remaining eligible agencies by formula based on sixty-
six and two-thirds percent relative to population and thirty-three and one-third percent relative to maintained centerline road miles. In order
to receive Maintenance and Repair of Local Streets and Roads Funds, local jurisdictions must meet the conditions of the maintenance of
effort program set forth in this section and in any specific administrative requirements of the Plan. The Authority shall develop administrative
requirements, in consultation with local jurisdictions, to implement the Plan. The allocation formula established for maintenance and repair of
local streets and roads funds may be reviewed and adjusted every five (5) years by the Board by the approval of one-half the member agencies
representing more than one-half the District's population and following review and recommendation by the Technical Advisory Committee. The
percentages of allocation established may be adjusted every three (3) years to reflect changes in population, centerline road mileages or such
other allocation criteria found in the formula for distribution of the funds for maintenance and repair of local streets and roads.

PARTTHREE:

PROVISIONS RELATED TO FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY AND FURTHER VOTER APPROVAL

Section 8. Limitation on Use of Funds for Administrative Costs to Not More Than 1 % of Transportation Sales Tax Revenues
The revenues received by the Authority from this Ordinance shall be used for transportation projects and programs countywide as set forth in
the Expenditure Plan and in a manner consistent with the Comprehensive Transportation Plan 2030 for specified projects, as developed by the
Solano Transportation Authority (STA), except for:

A.	Costs of the State Board of Equalization for performing the functions specified in Section 180204(b) of the Public Utilities Code and
cost of the Registrar of Voters for the election.

B.	For salaries and benefits of the Authority staff for the administration of the Expenditure Plan however such salaries and benefits shall
not to exceed one percent (1 %) of annual sales tax revenues.

Section 9. Requirement for Annual Audit of Revenues. Expenditures and Delivery of Projects

The Authority shall have an annual audit of all Revenues and Expenditures prepared and publicly reviewed and adopted by the Authority Board.
Said annual audit shall be performed by an independent accounting firm in accordance with the provisions of Generally Accepted Accountancy
Principals (GAAP). The annual audit shall include a progress and expenditure audit of the safety and transit programs in the Plan to insure that
they are implemented in a timely manner at a rate generally consistent with the other categories in the Plan.

Section 10. Establishment of Separate Accounts

The Authority shall allocate funds to Expenditure Plan projects and programs as necessary to meet contractual and program obligations. The
Authority may allocate funds as described but may reserve the right not to disburse monies until needed to meet contractual project or program
obligations, exclusive of the Local Return-to-Source Projects Funds. Each sponsor agency receiving funds from the Authority shall deposit said
funds in a separate, interest-bearing Transportation Improvement Account within the agency general accounts. Any interest earned on funds
allocated pursuant to this Ordinance and retained in such account shall be expended only for those purposes for which the funds were allocated
or shall be returned to the Authority. The Authority reserves the right to audit such accounts.

Section 11. Creation of Independent Taxpayers’Watchdog Committee

A.	Watchdog Committee Established. There shall be a permanent citizens’ advisory committee called the “Independent Taxpayers’
Watchdog Committee”, hereinafter “ITWC" or “Committee", which shall annually review and audit Authority revenues, expenditures and
delivery of projects and programs.

B.	Committee Membership. The ITWC shall have 11 members with one member appointed by each of the public agencies that has
the right to appoint a member to a seat on the Authority. The appointment by each of the public agencies shall be by the Mayor
or Chairperson of that agency with the concurrence of the agency's City Council or Board of Supervisors. The Authority Board
shall appoint the remaining three members. The Authority appointments shall be recommended by the Authority’s Local Funding
Subcommittee, or another Authority designated committee, and confirmed by the Authority Board. Appointees shall be residents of
the community from which they are appointed or from within the District in the case of Authority appointments; however, no member of
the Committee shall be an elected official. Subject to the foregoing, each appointing authority shall determine eligibility requirements
for its representative; provided, however, that in determining eligibility requirements, consideration should be given to candidates with
backgrounds or expertise in finance, business, accounting, engineering, transportation planning or other transportation related fields,
active or retired senior level managers of private or public organizations, or residents who have demonstrated an active interest in
transportation. Members shall serve at the pleasure of their respective appointing authorities. The staff of the Solano Transportation
Improvement Authority, the Solano Transportation Authority and Public Works, Transportation and Transit Directors from agencies
within Solano County shall provide administrative support to the Committee.

C.	Committee Organization; Procedures. The member appointed by the public agency that appointed the Authority member then serving
as Chair shall chair the Committee. The ITWC shall follow the administrative code and rules of procedure of the Authority unless
and until, upon the report and recommendation from the Committee, the Authority adopts a specific set of procedural rules for the
Committee.

D.	Regular Meetings; Provision of Support Services and Information. The Committee shall be subject to the provisions of the Brown Act
(California Government Code Sections 54950 et seq.) and shall meet regularly but in no event fewer than four times in a calendar year.
A regular meeting schedule shall be determined in accordance with the Brown Act and thereafter meetings shall be noticed by the
Authority’s Clerk to the Board. The STIA Executive Director or his/her designee shall serve as executive staff to the Committee and
legal services shall be provided by the Authority’s Legal Counsel or her/her designee. In addition to receiving materials directly related
to the functioning of the Committee, the Committee members shall also receive all agenda material and other primary staff reports
(other than those which are confidential) as are provided to the Authority Board.

E.	Watchdog Committee Functions. The Committee shall perform the following functions:

1.	Annual Audit: The Committee shall conduct an annual fiscal and compliance audit of the Authority relative to selected activities
funded with local transportation sales tax monies, in order to verify compliance or identify non-compliance with the voter-
approved Ordinance and Expenditure Plan. The annual audit will also evaluate issues of compliance with local maintenance
of effort for the maintenance and repair of local streets and roads level of effort requirements and, in addition, will confirm
expenditures and the progress for each project from the prior fiscal year and accumulated expenditures for ongoing, multi-year
projects. Not later than the last day of the sixth month following the end of the Authority’s fiscal year, the Committee will present
its findings and conclusions to the Authority Board for its review and any appropriate action. The cost of the audit, including the
cost of an outside auditor or other professional assistance retained by the Committee following approval by the Authority Board,
to assist it in carrying out its audit responsibility, shall be borne by the Authority.

2.	Specific Project Review: The Committee shall review and, when deemed appropriate by the Committee, comment to
the Authority Board on the financial elements of proposed projects under the Expenditure Plan. "Financial elements"
include the proposed costs, funding mechanisms and the revenue mix for proposed projects under the Expenditure Plan.
Recommendations may include matters such as the relative advantages of pay-as-you go funding and long term financing such
as through bonds or other financial instruments.

3.	Plan Amendment Review: The Committee shall review and may comment to the Authority Board on any proposed amendment
to the Expenditure Plan.

F.	Conflicts of Interest. ITWC members shall have no legal action pending against the Authority nor shall they have any direct or indirect
commercial or business interest or employment with any public or private entity which receives transportation retail transactions and
use tax revenues authorized by the voters through this Ordinance. Receipt of retirement benefits from a former private or public
employer shall not be considered a conflicting direct or indirect interest.

Section 12. 10-Year Expenditure Plan Review

Not less than every 10 years, the Authority shall conduct a comprehensive review of all revenues, projects and programs under the Expenditure
Plan to evaluate the performance of the overall program during the prior 10 years and make necessary revisions to the Expenditure Plan to
allow for changed demographic conditions, transportation needs, revenues and improved technology within the list of program and project
approved by the voters. Any proposed revision shall be subject to the amendment procedures set forth in Section 26 except for substantial
changes which shall be subject to approval of the Solano County electorate in accordance with the provisions of Section 13.

Section 13. Voter Approval of Substantial Changes in Expenditure Plan

Should the comprehensive review under Section 12 above, or any other proposed action by the Authority Board, result in a proposal that would
substantially alter the Expenditure Plan Project Categories, then the proposed changes shall be deemed “substantial" in nature and the new,
proposed Expenditure Plan will be submitted to the voters for approval. A majority vote of the electorate shall be sufficient to effectuate such
changes in the Expenditure Plan. Except as provided for under Sections 26 and 36 of this Ordinance a “substantial” change necessitating a
vote of the electorate would occur under any of the following circumstances:

A.	Any proposal to eliminate a Project Category of the Expenditure Plan which has not yet been fully completed;

B.	Any proposal to add new Project Categories to the Expenditure Plan which were not originally included in the adopted Expenditure
Plan. Projects within existing Project Categories may be changed or added to if consistent with the original list of project examples
within a Project Category;

C.	Any proposal to shift more than 5% of the estimated funding from an Expenditure Plan Project Category to another Project Category or
Categories.

PART FOUR:

PROVISIONS RELATING TO ADMINISTRATION OF THE TAX BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 14. Effective. Operative and Termination Dates

A.	Effective Date: This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the District transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
immediately upon adoption of the Ordinance by the Authority, the date of such adoption being as set forth below and, further, said
effective operation of this Ordinance shall continue in effect so long as at least two thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the Ordinance
at the election held on June 6,2006 vote to approve the Ordinance.

B.	Operative Date: If this Ordinance is approved by the electorate the operative date, it shall mean the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after voter approval of the Ordinance. Should voter approval occur on June 6,2006, this
Ordinance shall become operative on October 1,2006 for the collection of transactions and use taxes.

C.	Termination Date: The Authority to levy the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall expire September 30,2036 unless extended by a vote
of the electorate of Solano County or as otherwise provided by law.

Section 15. Purpose

This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A. To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 180050 et seq. of the Public Utilities Code which authorizes the Authority to adopt this
tax Ordinance which shall be operative if a two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of
the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of
the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 16. Contract with State

Prior to the operative date, the Authority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration
and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 17. Transactions Tax Rate

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the District at the rate of 0.5% (One-Half of One Percent) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.

Section 18. Place of Sale

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 19. Use Tax Rate

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the District of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.5% (One Half of
One Percent) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or
use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 20. Adoption of Provisions of State Law

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 21. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes
In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this Authority shall be substituted therefor.

However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this Authority or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California,
where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "District” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and

in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 22. Permit Not Required

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall
not be required by this Ordinance.

Section 23. Exemptions and Exclusions

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by
the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or
the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped to a point outside the District, pursuant to the contract of sale,
by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-District address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-District and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this Section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this District of tangible

personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and
use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a
continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this Section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise
of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7) of this Section, a retailer engaged in business in the District shall not be required to
collect use tax from the purchaser of. tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the District
or participates within the District in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the district or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the District” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: Vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions

tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 24. Amendments

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales
and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this Ordinance, provided however,
that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

Section 25. Enjoining Collection Forbidden. .

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or
the Authority, or against any officer of the State or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

PART FIVE:

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Section 26. Amendments to the Expenditure Plan or Ordinance

Except as required by Section 13, the Authority may review and approve amendments to the Expenditure Plan, to Expenditure Plan Project

Categories or this Ordinance to provide for the use of additional Federal, State and local funds, to account for unexpected revenues, or to take
into consideration unforeseen circumstances. The Authority shall establish a process for proposed Expenditure Plan amendment(s) that ensures
that Solano County and the cities within Solano County (collectively the “member agencies”) participate in the development of any proposed
amendment(s). No amendment may be adopted by the Authority except at a public meeting of the Authority following review by the County and
the cities in the District with a majority of the incorporated population. Upon completion of this process, amendment(s) to the Expenditure Plan
or Ordinance must be passed by a roll call vote entered in the minutes and must have approval of 3/4 of the members of the Authority Board
concurring with the proposed amendment(s). Pursuant to Public Utilities Code Section 180207, proposed amendments shall become effective
45 days after notice is given.

Section 27. Committees

In addition to the Independent Taxpayers Watchdog Committee, the Authority hereby establishes a Technical Advisory Committee and the
Authority may select the Solano Transportation Authority's Technical Advisory Committee to serve as the Authority's Technical Advisory
Committee. Further, the Authority may establish such other committees, whether standing or temporary, as it may deem necessary or
appropriate. Membership and duties of committees shall be determined by the Board and set out in the Authority’s Administrative Code.

Section 28. Private Sector Funding

Revenues provided from this Ordinance shall not be used to replace private developer funding that has been or will be committed for any
project.

Section 29. Bonding Authority

This Section hereby incorporates by reference all the relevant provisions contained in Public Utilities Code Section 180200 (“pay as you go”
financing) and Sections 180250 through 180264 relative to other forms of debt financing. This Ordinance authorizes the Authority to issue
limited tax bonds to finance capital outlay expenditures as may be provided for in the adopted transportation expenditure plan, payable from the
proceeds of the tax. In accordance with Public Utilities Code Section 180250(b), the maximum bonded indebtedness which may be outstanding
at any one time shall be an amount equal to the sum of the principle of, and interest on the bonds, but not to exceed the estimated proceeds of
the tax, as determined by the Plan. In addition, the maximum bonded indebtedness which may be outstanding at any one time for a specified
project, utilizing funds from this Expenditure Plan, shall not exceed the estimated proceeds of the tax for that specified project.

Section 30. Administrative Functions and Expenses

A.	The general administration and operation of the Authority shall be provided through the officers and staff of the Solano Transportation
Authority. The Executive Director, General Legal Counsel and Clerk of the Solano Transportation Authority shall serve in those same
capacities for the Authority.

B.	As previously provided in Section 8, revenues may be expended by the Authority for salaries, wages, and benefits, overhead and those
services including contractual services necessary to administer the Ordinance; however, in no case shall the annual expenditures for
the salaries and benefits for the Authority staff, in administering the Authority and providing administrative, financial and management
support, exceed one percent of the annual revenues provided by the Ordinance.

Section 31. Implementing Ordinances. Resolutions. Policies and Procedures

Upon approval of this Ordinance by the voters, the Authority shall, as required to be provided pursuant to this Ordinance, adopt implementing
ordinances, resolutions, rules, policies and administrative procedures, including Authority terms of office, and take such other actions as may be
necessary and appropriate to carry out its responsibilities to implement the “Traffic Relief Plan for Solano County,”

Section 32. Identification of Authority as Funding Source for Projects and Programs

Each project or program in excess of $250,000 funded in whole or in part by revenues from the Ordinance shall be clearly designated in writing
via signs and/or documents during its construction or implementation as being funded by revenues from the Ordinance.

Section 33. Contracts. Local Preference

It is the preference of the Authority, where feasible and permitted under applicable law, to contract with organizations and businesses within the
District. The Authority shall develop administrative procedures for contracts.

Section 34. Annual Appropriations Limit

Article XIII (B) of the California Constitution requires the establishment of an annual appropriations limit for certain governmental entities. The
maximum annual appropriations limit for the Authority has been established as $750 million (50% of the total estimated sales tax revenues
in 2004 dollars). The appropriations limit shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law including, but not limited to, annual adjustments
reflecting changes in population and inflation. All expenditures of the retail transactions and use tax revenues imposed in Section 4 are subject
to the appropriations limit of the Authority.

Section 35. Coordination of Funding and Projects: Annual Distribution of Tax Revenues

The Authority shall consult and coordinate its actions to secure funding for the completion and improvement of the priority regional projects
with the Solano Transportation Authority, California Transportation Commission, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission, the California
Department of Transportation (Caltrans), transit operators and other interested and affected parties for the purpose of integrating its
transportation improvements with other planned improvements and operations impacting the County. In addition, the Authority shall seek all
ways to expedite the completion of Expenditure Plan projects, the implementation of which is the responsibility of other agencies. In order to
maximize the beneficial use of tax revenues, the Authority may allocate annual revenues to Project Categories determined more necessary at
a particular point in time or which provide an opportunity for greater advancement toward completion than if funds were evenly allocated each
year, and defer allocations to other Project Categories so long as the ultimate percentages established by the Expenditure Plan are met over the
30 year period of the local transportation sales tax.

Section 36. Excess Funds: Reallocation of Released Funds

A.	The amounts of retail and transactions use tax revenues generated by this Ordinance are estimated and may be greater or lesser than
identified in the Expenditure Plan. To address this uncertainty, the Expenditure Plan allocates percentages of tax revenues to each of
the six (6) Project Categories. Therefore, if additional tax revenues are collected then presently estimated, then they shall be allocated
to the Project in the percentages established by the Expenditure Plan as adopted or later amended.

B.	If additional funds become available for a specific project or projects on the Expenditure Plan, or if the full amount allocated for a
Project Category is not utilized, the Authority may reallocate the excess or additional retail transaction and use tax funds to the other
Project Categories.

Section 37. Severability

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 38. Definitions

“Authority” means the Solano Transportation Improvement Authority.

“Bonds" mean indebtedness and securities of any kind or class, including but not limited to bonds, notes, revenue anticipation notes,
commercial paper and certificates of participation.

“Committee” or “ITWC” means the Independent Taxpayers’ Watchdog Committee established by this Ordinance as a permanent
committee of the Authority charged with responsibility for the review and audit of Authority program and project expenditures in accordance with
this Ordinance and the Expenditure Plan.

“Comprehensive Transportation Plan” means the long-range transportation planning document prepared and adopted by the Solano
Transportation Authority.

“Expenditure Plan" means the transportation expenditure plan required by Section 180206 of the Public Utilities Code to be adopted
prior to the call of an election on this Ordinance as it may be amended from time to time. The Expenditure Plan includes the allocation of
revenues for each authorized purpose.

“Highways and Arterials” means all purposes necessary and convenient to the design, right-of-way acquisition, and construction of
highway and arterial street facilities, including all interstate highway routes and any other facilities so designated in the Expenditure Plan.

“Return to Source” means all purposes necessary and convenient to the maintenance, operation and construction of local streets
and roads, transit purposes and other related projects providing traffic relief and improved transit services. Local street and road purposes shall
include all purposes allowable under Article XIX, Section 1 (a) of the State Constitution.

“Solano Transportation Authority” (STA) means the transportation agency that serves as the congestion management agency, countywide
transportation planning agency and is responsible for the programming of regional, state and federal transportation funds for Solano County.

“Transit” means all purposes necessary and convenient to the construction, operation and maintenance of transit services and
facilities including the acquisition of vehicles and right-of-way. Transit services include, but are not limited to bus, light rail, rapid transit, ferry and
commuter rail services and facilities.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Solano Transportation Improvement Authority,
the 22ND day of February, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:	7	(Jim	Spering,	Mary	Ann Courville, Steve Messina, Harry Price,

Anthony Intintoli, Len Augustine, John Vasquez)

NOES:	0

ABSTAIN: 0

ABSENT: 1 (Ed Woodruff)

Jim Spering	Date

STIA Chair

ATTESTED BY:

Johanna Masidat	Date

STIA Clerk of the Board <fullend>










Exhibit “A”
to Transportation Sales Tax Ordinance

Solano

Transportation

Improvement

Authority

“Traffic Relief and Safety Plan
for Solano County”

County Transportation
Expenditure Plan

Adopted by the Solano Transportation
Improvement Authority on

February 1, 2006

i.	Executive	Summary

A.	Why the Expenditure Plan was Developed

The 'Traffic Relief and Safety Plan for Solano County" is an Expenditure Plan that will guide the expenditure estimated to be $1.57 billion in county
transportation funds generated through a half-cent transportation sales tax over the next 30 years, if approved by Solano County voters on June
6,2006. This Plan was developed to address Solano County’s most immediate traffic relief and safety needs and to help improve and implement
a countywide transportation system to support our quality of life and economic vitality now and in the future.

The total net revenue generated from the sales tax for this 30-year Expenditure Plan is estimated to be $1.57 billion. This amount will nearly
double the projected transportation funds available for Solano County's projects and programs over the next 30 years from existing transportation
funding sources. In addition, it will help close the estimated funding shortfalls for transportation currently estimated to be about $3.8 billion. This
local transportation funding source will attract significant increases in regional, state and federal matching funds for the priority projects identified in the Plan.

B.	How the Plan was Developed

The “Traffic Relief and Safety Plan for Solano County” was developed with extensive public input. Building on the framework and needs
assessments identified by the Solano Transportation Authority (STA) in its Comprehensive Transportation Plan 2030, a total of 11 community
meetings were held throughout Solano County during 2005 and 2006 (at least one or two meetings in each city). A 62-member Citizens Advisory
Committee (CAC) representing diverse interest groups, solicited public input at four meetings during June and July of 2005 and January of
2006. Based on this extensive public participation, comments and recommendations were provided to the Solano Transportation Improvement
Authority (STIA) Board and staff prior to and during the Plan's development. Representatives from business, seniors, the disabled, education, the
environment, trade unions, transit, engineering, and public safety served on the CAC. Additional input was sought from civic groups and the cities
and County of Solano to ensure the diverse transportation needs of Solano County would be served by this Plan.

C.	What Specifically is in the Plan

The "Traffic Relief and Safety Plan for Solano County" funds the major priority projects identified by the public throughout Solano County and its
seven cities. The plan provides critical local matching funds for the 1-80/1-680/State Route (SR) 12 Interchange and the 1-80/1-680/1-780, SR 12
and SR 113 Corridors. It provides funds directly to Solano County’s seven cities and the County to maintain our local streets and roads and fund
critical local safety and transportation improvements. The Plan funds an expansion of special transportation services for seniors and persons with
disabilities. It provides capital and operating funds for commuter transit by funding commuter rail to the Bay Area and Sacramento, Expanded
Express Bus Service on the I-80/I-680/I-780/SR12 Corridors and the Expanded Vallejo Baylink Ferry Service.

Funding allocation percentages (%) and estimated funding for each of the Plan's specific program categories and projects are listed in Appendix
A.

II.	“Traffic Relief and Safety Plan for Solano County”

The Solano Transportation Improvement Authority's Expenditure Plan will guide the expenditure of an estimated $1.57 billion in county transportation
funds generated through a half-cent sales tax over the next 30 years, if approved by Solano County voters on June 6,2006. The Plan is divided into
six major program categories - Highway Corridor Improvements and Safety Projects, Maintenance and Repair of Local Streets and Roads, Senior and
Disabled Transit, Commuter Transit, Safety Projects and Safe Routes to Schools, and Local Return-to-Source Projects.

A.	Highway Corridor Improvements and Safety Projects: 40% ($625 million)

The Highway Corridor Improvements and Safety Projects Program is comprised of four specific areas of highway projects: 1.) the 1-80/1-680/
SR 12 Interchange, 2.) the 1-80/1-680/1-780 Corridor Improvements and Safety, 3.) the SR 12 Corridor Improvements and Safety (Jameson
Canyon and SR 12 East (1-80 to Rio Vista)), and 4.) SR 113 Corridor Improvements and Safety (1-80 to SR 12).

1.	1-80/1-680/SR 12 Interchange

This project will provide congestion relief, operational enhancements, and safety improvements for the I-80/I-680/SR 12 Interchange as
defined by the 1-80/1-680/1-780 Major Investment and Corridor Study approved by the STA.The project will rebuild the interchange to improve
connections between 1-80,1-680 and SR 12.

2.	1-80/1-680/1-780	Corridor	Improvements	and	Safety

This project will provide congestion relief, operational enhancements, and safety improvements for the 1-80 Corridor from the Ai Zampa
Memorial (Carquinez) Bridge in Vallejo to the Yolo County line east of Dixon, on 1-680 from the Benicia-Martinez Bridge in Benicia to the
I-80/I-680/SR12 Interchange in Fairfield and 1-780 from the Benicia-Martinez Bridge to 1-80 in Vallejo. Eligible projects for this funding have
been defined by a prioritized list of mid- and long-term improvements included in the 1-80/1-680/1-780 Major Investment and Corridor Study
approved by the STA. Improvements include, but are not limited to operational and safety improvements, ramp improvements, travel and
auxiliary lanes, new and expanded park and ride lots, High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes, and direct entrances and improved access
connections to major freeways.

3.	SR 12 Corridor Improvements and Safety (Jameson Canyon and SR 12 East fl-80 to Rio Vista)

This project will provide congestion relief, operational enhancements and safety improvements on the SR 12 Corridor from the Napa County
Line to the Helen Madere (Rio Vista) Bridge. Eligible projects include, but are not limited to widening, operational and safety improvements
on SR 12 West (Jameson Canyon) and operational, safety and congestion relief projects on SR 12 East from Fairfield and Suisun City to
Rio Vista as identified in the SR 12 Major Investment Study approved by the STA.

4- SR 113 Corridor Improvements and Safety fl-80 to SR 121

Based on recommendations of a SR 113 Major Investment and Corridor Study, this project will provide operational enhancements and safety
improvements on the SR 113 Corridor from 1-80 to SR 12. Eligible projects include, but are not limited to shoulder widening, improved
turning radii, intersection improvements and other operational and safety improvements to be determined based on a major investment and
corridor study to be conducted by the STA.

B.	Maintenance and Repair of Local Streets and Roads: 20% ($315 million)

The Local Streets and Roads Program provides funds to the cities of Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville, Vallejo and
the County of Solano to maintain and rehabilitate local streets and roads.

Each city and the County of Solano will receive an annual allocation of funds for maintenance and repair of local streets and roads based on
a formula of 66.7% population and 33.3% centerline miles (2:1). The cities of Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and
Vallejo, and the County of Solano will receive estimated local streets and road funds as indicated in Attachment B.

C.	Senior and Disabled Transit: 7% ($115 million)

This Program will improve transit services for seniors and disabled persons, including fare discounts for seniors and disabled, additional or
expanded intercity, intercounty and local paratransit services, new vehicles, subsidized taxi services and expanded evening and weekend
transit services to medical facilities, shopping and senior centers. These funds will be allocated based on the “Solano County Senior and
Disabled Transit Study” developed and adopted by the STA in cooperation with the Solano County Paratransit Coordinating Council and
Solano County’s Transit Operators.

D.	Commuter Transit: 12% ($190 million)

The Traffic Relief and Safety Plan provides funding for commuter transit to expand and improve commuter transit options serving Benicia, Fairfield,
Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo, and to ensure new transit options are provided for the cities of Dixon and Rio Vista.

The Plan provides services for three specific commuter services: 1.) New Commuter Rail, from Solano County to the Bay Area and Sacramento,
2) Expanded Express Bus Service on the 1-80/1-680/1-780 Corridors and new service on the SR 12 Corridor, and 3) Expanded Vallejo Baylink Ferry
Service.

1.	New Commuter Rail Service (Solano County to Bay Area and Sacramento with connections to Benicia.
Dixon. Fairfield/Vacaville. and Suisun City)

This project will provide three additional peak hour commuter trains connecting the current station in Suisun City and new stations in
the cities of Benicia, Dixon and Fairfield/Vacaville to the Bay Area and the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system and to
Davis and Sacramento. This Project is based on the Contra Costa/Solano Rail Feasibility Study and the Oakland-Auburn Regional Rail
Study. Capital funds will be allocated for the necessary trains and track improvements, and operating funds will be provided to operate this
commuter service. The funds are also eligible to provide the local matching funds to secure additional state and federal funds to construct
rail stations in Fairfield/Vacaville, Dixon and Benicia, provide safety improvements for transit centers and purchase right-of-way for future
passenger rail service between Solano and Napa counties.

2.	Expanded Express Bus Service on 1-80/1-680/1-780 and SR 12 Corridors (with connections to all Solano
CountyCities)

This project will provide expanded commuter transit service on the 1-80,1-680, and 1-780 Corridors and new service on the SR 12 Corridor.
These funds will provide annual operating funds for expanded transit services on major commute corridors consistent with the Transit
Element of the Solano Comprehensive Transportation Plan 2030, the 1-80/1-680/1-780 Transit Corridor Study and the SR 12 Transit Corridor
Study adopted by the STA. Capital funds shall be used for the purchase of additional buses to relieve traffic congestion in Solano County
and provide for local matching funds to complete intermodal stations, maintenance facilities and provide safety improvements for transit
facilities along the I-80/I-680/1-780/SR 12 Corridors in Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo as determined
by the STA. Transit and ridesharing incentives are also eligible activities under this category.

Expanded Vallejo Bavlink Ferry Service

This project will expand the Vallejo Baylink Ferry Service that relieves congestion and provides an expanded commuter transit option on
the 1-80 Corridor between Solano County and the Bay Area. This program provides for the purchase and operation of one additional ferry
to relieve traffic congestion in Solano County and allows the option to extend service to Benicia. Funds may also be allocated for operating
costs for the ferry maintenance facility and to match state and federal funding to complete the Vallejo Ferry Intermodal Station project.
Eligible projects must be consistent with the Short Range Transit Plan adopted by the City of Vallejo and the Transit Element of the Solano
Comprehensive Transportation Plan 2030 adopted by the STA.

E.	Safety Projects and Safe Routes to Schools: 10% ($155 million)

Local safety projects will be funded from this Program. Eligible projects include:

•	Improving safe routes to schools

•	Signage, traffic lights, road and intersection safety improvements

•	Railroad grade separations

•	Emergency repairs, protection and mitigation for transportation facilities caused by natural or man-made disasters such as flooding,
earthquakes and acts of terrorism

•	Improving key bottlenecks for emergency vehicles driving during peak commute hours

•	Improving safe routes to transit adjacent to major transit stations

Local safety projects will be based on safety projects in the Solano County Traffic Safety Study approved by the STA and based on the new Safe Routes
to Schools Program currently being developed by the STA in partnership with Solano County schools and local communities.

F.	Local Return-to-Source Projects: 10 % ($155 million)

The cities of Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville, Vallejo and the County of Solano will receive, through a fair share population
formula, significant new funds for local transportation projects fo provide safety improvements, fix local interchanges, expand transit services and
provide downtown and local improvements. Eligible projects include:

•	Additional local road rehabilitation

•	Improving local interchanges

•	Additional local safety projects

•	Pedestrian improvements for downtowns

•	Expanded local transit service

•	Local transit centers

•	Other local priority transportation projects and facilities

The Local Return-to-Source projects will be determined by each local community, through a public process, based on each city’s local transportation
priorities and needs. Projects funded under this category will be encouraged to follow the goals, objectives and policies contained in the STA’s
Transportation for Livable Communities (TLC) Plan and Program. These funds can also be used as a local match for the Countywide TLC, Bicycle and
Pedestrian Programs as funded by STA.

III.	STIA Governing Board and Organizational Structure

The Solano County Board of Supervisors voted to form the Solano Transportation Improvement Authority (STIA) on February 3, 2004 under sections
180000 et seq. of the California Public Utilities Code. The STIA was created to develop the expenditure plan for this proposed half cent sales tax for
transportation and to administer the sales tax program if approved by 66.7% of Solano County's voters.

The STIA Board is composed of eight (8) members, one each from the Solano County Board of Supervisors and the City Councils of the seven cities
within Solano County. Each appointing member also appoints an alternate to represent the member jurisdiction when the member is absent.

The STIA has designated an Executive Director, Clerk of the Board and Legal Counsel. It has also formed a four member Local Funding Subcommittee
with the specified purpose of examining and recommending short- and long-term revenue options to fund a range of priority transportation projects in
Solano County, and designated a Technical Advisory Committee consisting of the Public Works Directors for each of the seven cities in Solano County
and the County of Solano to provide technical and engineering review of projects contained in the Expenditure Plan.

IV.	Taxpayers’ Safeguards

A.	Independent Taxpayers’Watchdog Committee

On May 12,2004, the STIA Board approved the formation of an Independent Taxpayer's Watchdog Committee to provide external evaluation
of the expenditures of the sales tax for the various transportation projects to be undertaken with those public funds. The Committee will
consist of 11 members to audit and monitor all voter-approved taxpayer funds and mandates. One member will be appointed by the
cities of Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo, and by the Board of Supervisors. Committee members
are encouraged to appoint individuals from the disciplines of finance, business, accounting, engineering, planning, other transportation
related fields, or residents. Each member must be a resident residing in the jurisdiction of the appointing agency. Then, in order to provide
an odd number of committee members and sufficient independent oversight, the STIA Board will appoint three other members, from the
disciplines of finance, business, accounting, engineering, transportation planning, other transportation related fields, or residents who have
demonstrated an active interest in transportation.

The Committee terms will be for four years, the terms are to be staggered, and members could serve up to two terms. Each member of the
committee cannot be a member of the STIA Board or an elected official and must be a resident of Solano County.

The functions of the Committee will include:

Annual Audit and Specific Project Review: To review and comment to the STIA Board on the annual audit, review revenues and
expenditures, and review the delivery and costs of projects funded under the Expenditure Plan.

Recommendations on Funding Mechanisms: To make recommendations on funding methodologies and the revenue mix for projects under
the Expenditure Plan.

Plan Amendment Review: To review and, when deemed necessary by the Committee, to comment to the STIA Board on proposed
amendments to the Expenditure Plan.

Voter Approval of Major Plan Amendments: To review and comment on any major changes proposed to the plan and to be submitted for
approval by the voters.

B.	Administrative Functions and Expenses

The cost of the annual administration, financial and legal functions of the STIA are limited by state statutes to one percent (1 %) of the annual
revenues provided by the ordinance. These limited revenues will be used for the total estimated expenditures for administrative, financial and
legal services necessary to administer the Plan.

C.	Annual Budget/Financial Projections

The STIA will prepare an annual budget identifying the total expenditures for administration of the program. Sales tax proceeds may only
be used to pay for projects and programs in the Expenditure Plan. The duration of the tax will be 30 years from the initial year of collection,
which will begin October 1,2006, if approved by Solano County voters. The measure will terminate/expire on September 30,2036.

Allocations for all programs and projects shall be made annually by percentage shares in accordance with the Expenditure Plan. To the
extent that funds are advanced for programs or projects prior to the year in which annual percentage allocation is made, any financing cost
such as interest shall be borne by the program category for which funds are advanced.

D.	Annual Audit

The STIA will conduct an annual fiscal and performance audit of all activities funded with local transportation sales tax monies to assure
compliance with the voter-approved Ordinance and Expenditure Plan. The audit will cover all recipients of transportation sales tax funds
including evaluating compliance with maintenance of effort requirements. The audit will also identify expenditures made for each project from
the prior audit and will include the accumulated expenses and revenues for ongoing, multi-year projects.

E.	Voter Approval of Amendments to the Plan

The Expenditure Plan may be updated to ensure that projects and.programs meet changing local transportation needs as well as
technological and demographic changes. To ensure projects approved by Solano County voters are constructed, formal amendments to the
Expenditure Plan shall be made only in accordance with the procedures and requirements as specified in the implementing Ordinance. This
shall include a full review and update of the plan every ten years and a requirement that any major amendment to the Expenditure Plan,
defined as a 5% amendment to any specific program category, shall require a review of the Independent Taxpayers’ Watchdog Committee
and approval by Solano County voters.

Appendix A

“Traffic Relief and Safety Plan for

Solano County”

STIA’s Expenditure Plan Allocation
by Percentage/Project Funding

Traffic Relief and Safety Plan for Solano County February 1,2006


PROGRAM NAME

A.	Highway Corridor Improvements and Safety Projects  •	I-80/I-680/SR12 Interchange  •	1-80/1-680/1-780 Corridor Improvements and Safety  •	SR 12 Corridor Improvements and Safety (Jameson Canyon and SR 12 East (1-80 to Rio Vista))  •	SR 113 Corridor Improvements and Safety (1-80 to SR 12)	$2,281 M to $2,646M  $885M to $1,200M $1,076M  $295M  $25M to $75M	$2,053M to $2,418M  $739M to $1,054M $1,076M  $213M  $25M to $75M	$625M	40%
17	Maintenance and Repair of Local Streets and Roads.	$962.5M	$604.7M	$315M	20%
17	Senior and Disabled Transit	$115M-$129.2M $17M Capital $98M-$112.2M Operating	$115M -S129.2M $17M Capital $98M-$112.2M Operating	$115M	7%
17	Commuter Transit  •	New Commuter Rail Service (Solano County to Bay Area and Sacramento with connections to Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield/ Vacaville, and Suisun City)  •	Expanded Express Bus Service on 1- 80/1-680/1-780 and SR 12 Corridors (with connections to all Solano County Cities)  •	Expanded Vallejo Baylink Ferry Service	$659M $258M  (S183M Capital $75M Operating)  S270M  ($90M Capital S180M Operating)  $131M  ($32M Capital S99M Operating)	$425M $210M  ($135M Capital $75M Operating)  $165M  ($65M Capital $100M Operating)  $50M  ($10M Capital $40M Operating)	$190M	12%
E.	Safety Projects and Safe Routes to Schools	$155M-$250M	S155M - $250M	$155M	10%
F.	Local Return-to-Source Projects	$155M-$250M	$155M-$250M	$155M	10%
G.	STIA Admin/Finance			$15M	1%
	Total Estimated Revenues Available			IT570M	100%

Appendix B

Traffic Relief and Safety Plan
Fact Sheets

Project:	I-80/I-680/SR	12	interchange

Location:	1-80	between	1-680	and	SR 12

Description:	This	project	will	rebuild	the	1-80/680/12	Interchange	to	relieve	congestion	by adding travel lanes, adding High Occupancy Vehicle

(HOV) lanes, improving connections between 1-80 and 1-680 and 1-80 and SR 12 West and East, separating truck traffic from other
traffic with braided ramps, and providing alternate routes for local traffic (collector-distributor roads and the North Connector).
This project will provide the required local matching funds necessary for completion of the interchange project in combination
with other regional, state and federal funds.

Total Cost:	$885	-	$1,200	million

Unfunded Need:	$739-$1,054 million

Project:

Location:

Description:

Total Cost:

1-80/1-680/1-780 Corridor Improvements and Safety

1-80,1-680 and 1-780 Corridors in Solano County

Projects to relieve congestion, improve traffic flow and safety through Solano County were identified in the 1-80/1-680/1-780 Major
Investment and Corridor Study. Eligible projects for this funding nave been defined by a prioritized list of mid- and long-term
improvements included in the 1-80/1-680/1-780 Major Investment and Corridor Study approved by the STA. Project improvements
include, but are not limited to, operational and safety improvements, ramp improvements, new and expanded park and ride lots,
travel and auxiliary lanes, High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes, and direct entrances and improved access connections to
major freeways. This project will provide the local matching funds necessary to complete the projects necessary to relieve major
bottlenecks on 1-80 and 1-680, construct HOV lanes on 1-80 from the Carquinez Bridge to 1-505 in Vacaville and construct park
and ride lots and intermodal stations along the 1-80/680/780 corridors.

$1,076 million

Unfunded Need:	$1,076	million

Project:	SR	12	Corridor Improvements and Safety

Location:	SR	12 (West) Jameson Canyon: 1-80 to Solano/Napa County Line

SR 12 (East): Helen Madere (Rio Vista) Bridge to 1-80

Description:	Projects	on	SR	12	will provide congestion relief, operational enhancements and safety improvements on two segments of the SR

12 Corridor from the Napa County Line to 1-80, and 1-80 to the Helen Madere (Rio Vista) Bridge. Eligible projects may include but
are not limited to widening from 2 to 4 lanes, operational and safety improvements on SR 12 Jameson Canyon (i-80 to Solano/
Napa County Line) and the operational, safety and congestion projects on SR 12 East as identified in the SR 12 Major Investment
Study approved by the Solano Transportation Authority. Environmental and detailed implementation plans will be completed for
each project. This project will provide the local matching funds necessary to construct operational, safety and congestion relief
improvements for SR 12 Jameson Canyon and safety, operational and congestion relief improvements for SR 12 East.

Total Cost:

$295 million

Unfunded Need:	$213	million

Project:	SR	113 Corridor Improvements and Safety

Location:	SR	113	from	1-80	to	SR	12

Description:	Based	on	the	recommendations	of	a	SR	113 Major Investment and Corridor Study to be conducted by the STA, this project

will provide operational enhancements and safety improvements on the SR 113 Corridor from 1-80 to SR 12. Eligible projects
include shoulder widening, improved turning radii, intersection improvements, and other operational and safety improvements to
be determined by the Major Investment and Corridor Study.

Total Cost:	$25	-	$75	million

$25 - $75 million

Unfunded Need:

Maintenance and Repair of Local Streets and Roads Program: 20% ($315 million)

Location:	Cities of Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo and County of Solano

Description:	Each city and the County of Solano will receive an annual allocation for the maintenance and repair of local streets and roads

based on a formula of 66.7% population and 33.3% centerline miles (2:1). The seven cities and County of Solano will annually
receive an allocation of these funds with the total amount for each agency, over 30 years, estimated below.

Total Cost:	$962.5 million

Unfunded Need:	$604.7 million

Estimated Allocation by City/County:

Benicia

Dixon

Fairfield

Rio Vista

Suisun City

Vacaville

Vallejo

Solano County
TOTAL

$ 19.4 million

111.9 million
69.8 million
5.1 million
17.7 million
64.2 million
78.1 million
47.8 million
$315.0 million (rounded)

Senior and Disabled Transit: 7% ($115 million)

Location:	Countywide	and	within	each	city

Description:	Based on the “Solano County Senior and Disabled Transit Study” adopted by the STA, this Program addresses the mobility needs

of the large and growing senior and disabled population in Solano County projected over the next 30 years. The Program includes
various short, medium, and long-term implementation strategies to improve transit service for senior and disabled persons,
including fare discounts on transit, additional or expanded intercity, inter-county and local paratransit services, new vehicles,
subsidized taxi services and expanded evening and weekend services to medical facilities, shopping and senior centers.

Total Cost:

$115-$129.2 million

Unfunded Need:

$115-$129.2 million

Commuter Transit: 12% ($190 million)

Project:	New	Commuter	Rail	Service

(Solano County to Bay Area and Sacramento with connections to Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield/
Vacaville, Suisun City)

Location:	Sacramento	-	Davis	-	Dixon	-	Fairfield/Vacaville	-	Suisun	City	-	Benicia	-Richmond	BART	-	Oakland

Description:	This	Project	will	provide three additional peak hour commuter trains (integrated with the four existing peak hour Capitol Corridor

intercity trains) connecting to the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system in Contra Costa and Oakland, and to
Sacramento from new rail stations in Benicia, Dixon and Fairfield/Vacaville and the existing station in Suisun City. The service is
based on the Contra Costa/Solano Rail Feasibility Study and the Oakland-Sacramento-Auburn Regional Rail Study. Funds will
be allocated for the necessary trains, track improvements, and operating funds to operate this commuter service. The funds are
also eligible to provide the local matching funds to secure additional state and federal funds to construct rail stations in Fairfield/
Vacaville, Benicia and Dixon and to purchase right-of-way for future long-range passenger rail service between Solano and Napa
counties.

Total Cost:	$258	million

Unfunded Need:	$210	million

Project:	Expanded	Express	Bus	Service	on	1-80/1-680/1-780	and	SR	12	Corridors

(with connections to all Solano County Cities)

Location:	Countywide

Description:	This	program	will	provide	expanded	commuter	transit	service	on	the	1-80,1-680,1-780 and SR 12 corridors. The funds will provide

annual operating revenues for transit services on major commute corridors and be consistent with the Transit Element of the
Comprehensive Transportation Plan 2030,1-80/1-680/1-780 Transit Corridor Study and the SR 12 Transit Corridor Study adopted
by the STA. The capital funds will be used for the purchase and operation of additional vehicles to relieve traffic congestion in
Solano County and provide for local matching funds to complete intermodal stations and maintenance facilities along the 1-80/1-
680/1-780/SR 12 Corridors in Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo, as determined by the STA.
Transit and carpool/vanpool, incentives and information to encourage more use of transit and ridesharing would also be eligible
activities.

Total Cost:	$270	million

Unfunded Need:	$165	million

Project:

Location:

Total Cost:
Unfunded Need:

Expanded Vallejo Baylink Ferry Service

Vallejo (with optional Benicia stop)

This program will expand the Vallejo Baylink Ferry Service that provides daily service from Vallejo to San Francisco. Funds will be
allocated for the capital and operational costs for one additional Ferry and the ferry maintenance facility. Eligible projects must
be consistent with the Short Range Transit Plan adopted by the City of Vallejo and the Transit Element of the Comprehensive
Transportation Plan adopted by the STA. A Baylink ferry stop in Benicia and the cost of extended service would also be eligible.

$131 million
$50 million

Safety Projects and Safe Routes to Schools: 10% ($155 million)

Location:

Cities of Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo and County of
Solano

Description:	Critical local safety projects will be funded from this program. Eligible projects may include, but are not limited, to improved safety

for walking and bike routes to schools and transit, improved crosswalks, traffic lights, roadway and intersection improvements,
railroad crossings, improved transit security and fixing key bottlenecks for emergency vehicles during peak commute times.
Specific safety projects are identified in the Solano County Traffic Safety Study approved by the STA. Emergency repairs of
transportation infrastructure and facilities damaged by a natural or man-made disaster are also eligible under this category.

Total Cost:	$155-$250 million

Unfunded Need:	$155-$250 million

Local Return-to-Source Projects: 10% ($155 million)

Location:

Cities of Benicia, Dixon, Fairfield, Rio Vista, Suisun City, Vacaville and Vallejo and County of Solano

Description:

Total Cost:
Unfunded Need:

Each city and the County of Solano will receive, through a population fair share formula, funds for critical local transportation
projects such as but are not limited to:

•	Additional local road rehabilitation

•	Improving local interchanges

•	Additional local safety projects

•	Pedestrian improvements for downtowns

•	Expanded local transit service

•	Local transit centers

•	Other local priority transportation	projects and facilities

$155 -$250 million

$155-$250 million

Allocation by City/County:

Benicia	$ 8.4 million
Dixon	$ 7.4 million
Fairfield	S 40.2 million
Rio Vista	$ 5.2million
Suisun City	$10.4 million
Vacaville	$ 34.3 million
Vallejo	$ 47.0 million
Solano Count	S 4.1 million
TOTAL	$155.0 million
<summaryend> 