FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G
EXHIBIT A

FIRE AND FACILITIES SALES TAX INITIATIVE

(Text of Proposed Ordinance)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LODI IMPOSING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION AND ADDING
CHAPTER 3.09 TO THE LODI MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LODI DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The Lodi Municipal Code is hereby amended
by the addition of Chapter 3.09, which shall read as follows:

3.09.010 Title and Effect

This chapter shall be known as the Lodi Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance. This chapter shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City of Lodi (“City”). This chapter
shall complement, and not replace or supersede, the City’s
existing sales and use tax, as such tax is described in
Chapter 3.08 of the Municipal Code.

3.09.020	Operative Date

As used in Chapter 3.09, “Operative Date” means the first day
of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days
after the adoption of this chapter. If this chapter is approved
by the voters at the March 2005 election, the operative date
shall be July 1,2005.

3.09.030	Purpose

This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and the City Council directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose retail transactions and use tax regulations in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing
with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code if two thirds of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at a
special election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that
incorporate provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that
impose a tax and provide a measure therefor that can
be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that
can be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

3.09.040 Expenditure Plan

A.	The Expenditure Plan is designed to ensure that the City
accomplishes the specific projects listed below with the
revenue generated from the transactions and use tax.
The revenue from the transactions and use tax shall be
expended on these specific projects in the following
order of priority:

1.	Placing paramedics on fire engines in Lodi (up to
$700,000 per year for six years);

2.	Design and construction of Fire Station #5, which
shall be located in the southeast portion of Lodi (up
to $2,000,000);

3.	Construction of the Lodi Aquatics Center (up to
$9,000,000);

4.	Design and construction of a replacement for Fire
Station #2, which shall be located in the eastern
portion of Lodi (up to $2,000,000);

5.	Construction of a downtown indoor sports center (up
to $9,000,000); and

6.	Maintenance and operation of the facilities above
(up to $1,500,000).

B.	Once the City has collected revenue from this
transactions and use tax in the amount of $700,000, it
shall hire an appropriate number of paramedics and
begin providing paramedic services on fire engines in
the City within twelve months. Thereafter, subject to its
ongoing duty to expend $700,000 per year to fund
paramedics pursuant to this Expenditure Plan, once the
City collects the amount listed for each subsequent
project it shall begin design or construction of the
designated facilities within six months.

C.	The City Council shall appoint an advisory committee to
ensure that the revenue from the transactions and use
tax is spent in accordance with the actual terms and
overall intent of this ordinance. The committee shall
consist of five individuals and shall, at all times, include
one member of Lodi Professional Firefighters Local
1225, one member of the Lodi City Swim Club, one
member of the Lodi Sports Foundation, one member of
the City Council, and one person selected at large by
the City Council in its discretion. Each member of the
advisory committee shall serve for a term of two years,
which term may be renewed by the City Council. In the
event of a vacancy on the committee, the City Council
shall appoint an appropriate replacement member.

D.	if the City Council and the advisory committee both
determine that the maximum dollar amount to be spent
on one or more of these projects is insufficient to

39-548

SJ 050-013

achieve the goals of this ordinance, the City Council may
increase the maximum dollar amount for such project(s),
provided that it first holds a noticed public hearing and
makes specific findings that the increased expenditures for
one or more projects is necessary to complete such
project(s) in an effective manner and to fulfill the intent of
this ordinance.

E.	If the City Council and the advisory committee both
determine that the order of priority for these projects
should be changed, the City Council may change the
order of priority, provided that it first holds a noticed public
hearing and makes specific findings that the change in the
order of priority is in the best interests of the City and its
residents.

F.	Once revenue in the amounts listed above has been spent
on the services and facilities included in each of these
projects, any remaining revenue raised through this
transactions and use tax shall be spent to help maintain
such services and facilities.

3.09.050 Contract with State

Prior to the Operative Date of July 1, 2005, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of these
transactions and use tax regulations; provided that, if the City
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the Operative Date, it shall nevertheless so contract
and in such a case the Operative Date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

3.09.060 Transactions Tax Rate

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail,
a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the City at the rate of .25% of the gross receipts of
any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold
at retail in said territory on and after the Operative Date of this
chapter.

3.09.070 Place of Sale

For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer
or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when
such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
State or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.09.080 Use Tax Rate

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on and after the Operative Date
of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of .25% of the sales price of the property.
The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

3.09.90 Adoption of Provisions of State Law

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except
insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby
adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set
forth herein.

3.09.100 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to
as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be
substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not
be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of
the State Controller, State Treasurer, State
Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State
of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than
by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would
not be subject to tax by the state under the
said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State”
in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State”
in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

3.09.110 Permit not Required

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section
6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this chapter.

39-549

SJ 050-014

3.09.120 Exemptions and Exclusions

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales
tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or
the amount of any state-administered transactions or use
tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount
of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel
or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which
is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the
contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to
a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point.
For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a
point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-City
and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
Operative Date of this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the
Operative Date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this

chapter, the storage, use or other consumption in this

City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been
subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax regulations.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property
for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.

4.	if the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be required
to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority
of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also
include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

39-550

SJ 050-015

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may
credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of
the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

3.09.130 Amendments

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
shall automatically become a part of this chapter, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter. Except as
provided above and in Section 3.40.140, this chapter may be
amended only by the voters pursuant to the provisions of
Elections Code section 9217 and as provided by law.

3.09.140 Termination of Tax

The transactions and use tax imposed by this Chapter shall
terminate ten years from the Operative Date.

3.09.150 Enjoining Collection Forbidden

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any provision of this chapter or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the chapter which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions of this chapter are severable.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. After its adoption by the voters,
this chapter shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after
the vote is declared by the legislative body, pursuant to the
provisions of Elections Code sections 9217 and 15400 and as
provided by law.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G
Prepared by Lodi City Attorney

The Fire and Facilities Sales Tax Initiative proposes to amend
the Lodi Municipal Code to add new Chapter 3.09 adding an
additional one quarter cent transaction and use (sales) tax.
The tax would be paid in addition to current State and local
sales taxes and would be collected at the same time, in the
same manner, and on the same items as sales taxes. The
sales tax levy must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the
qualified voters in the City voting in an election on the issue.
If approved, the sales tax levy would become effective April 1,
2007 and would remain in effect for ten years. City staff has
conservatively estimated that the measure would raise
$28,585 million dollars over its ten-year life.

The initiative requires that the proceeds of the tax be spent on
the following projects in the following priority:

1.	Placing paramedics on fire engines in Lodi (up to
$700,000 per year for six years, total of $4,200,000);

2.	Design and construction of Fire Station #5 which
shall be located in the southeast portion of Lodi (up
to $2,000,000);

3.	Construction of the Lodi Aquatics Center (up to
$9,000,000);

4.	Design and construction of a replacement for Fire
Station #2, which shall be located in the eastern
portion of Lodi (up to $2,000,000);

5.	Construction of a downtown indoor sports center (up
to $9,000,000); and

6.	Maintenance and operation of the facilities above (up
to $1,500,000).

The initiative requires that the proceeds be spent on the
above projects and no others. After year ten, the funding
from the initiative to maintain these facilities and programs
would cease.

The initiative also establishes an oversight committee to
ensure that the proceeds are spent on the listed projects.
The oversight committee would also have the power to, jointly
with the City Council, approve proposed changes in the
priority or maximum expense of projects based upon changed
circumstances.

39-551

SJ 050-016

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G
WAS SUBMITTED

Measure G will make Lodi safer by providing funding for
paramedics on our fire engines and for two fire stations. In
addition, Measure G will provide the funds for a new
swimming complex and for Lodi’s first and only indoor
activities and sports center. Finally, Measure G is projected
to have over $6 million to maintain and operate these services
after they are built. This will save you money.

Why do we need these things?

•	Today, Lodi’s fire engines arrive at medical
emergencies without paramedics. With Measure G,
our fire engines will arrive with firefighters that are
trained and equipped to provide paramedic services.
This can save your life!

•	Lodi does not have the funds for a required 5th fire
station in the southeast portion of Lodi. Measure G
will provide those funds. This will improve fire and
medical coverage service throughout Lodi.

•	Lodi has only one swimming complex at Blakely
Park. The swimming complex will be built on the
Westside of town.

•	Lodi does not own any covered activities and sports
space. The indoor center, serving all ages, will give
our kids more opportunities and activities thus
keeping them off the street. If done right, this will
save the Grape Bowll

Why do this with Measure G?

•	Because our City cannot get these things done and
we need them.

•	Everyone that comes to Lodi will contribute, not just
those that live here.

•	The oversight committee will control the money so it
is not wasted.

. THIS MONEY IS YOUR MONEY AND IT CAN
ONLY BE SPENT ON THE PROJECTS LISTED IN
MEASURE G! NOTHING ELSE.

Measure G is supported by the Lodi Chamber of Commerce
and the Lodi Professional Firefighters.

MEASURE G IS GOOD FOR LODII

Submitted by:

/s/- John E. Johnson, CFA

/s/ Pete Iturraran, Lodi Professional Firefighters

/s/ John Griffin, Lodi City Swim Club

/s/ JoAnne Mounce, Lodi City Council Member

