COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 27 MEASURE J

JTo continue emergency paramedic care, shall
Ordinance No. 3457 be approved imposing a spe-
cial tax for paramedic services in the amount of
$39.00 per year increasing by $3.00 per year, not to
exceed $48.00 for each living unit, and in the amount of
$39.00 increasing by $3.00 per year per 1,500 square
feet of structure of each developed parcel in non-resi-
dential use?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE J

ORDINANCE NO. 3457
AN ORDINANCE OF THE
MARIN COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
INCREASING THE AMOUNT OF THE SPECIAL
TAX FOR PARAMEDIC SERVICES IN
COUNTY SERVICE AREA 27
THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY
OF MARIN AND COUNTY SERVICE AREA 27 DOES
HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION I. Authority, Purpose and Intent. This
ordinance is adopted pursuant to Article 3.5 of Chapter 1,
Part 1, Division 1, Tide V (Sections 50075, et seq.) of the
California Government Code, and it is the purpose and
intent of this ordinance to impose a special tax on property
within this Area for purposes of funding paramedic services.

SECTION H. Upon enactment of this ordinance as
hereinafter provided, a special tax for the purposes outlined
in Section I hereof in an amount not to exceed $48.00 per
year for each living unit, and $48.00 per year for each 1,500
square feet of structure on each developed parcel in non-res-
idential use.

SECTION HI. Tax Rate. The Board shall determine
annually, based upon a budget recommended to it, whether
the basic rate shall be revised to reflect changes in charges
and costs. If the Board determines that the basic tax rate
shall be revised to a rate lower than set forth in Section II
hereof, it shall so revise said rate by resolution passed by a
simple majority of the Board.

SECTION TV. Method of Collection. The special tax
imposed by this ordinance for the purposes outlined in Sec-
tion I is due from every person who owns a living unit or
non-residential structure within this Area as reflected upon
the rolls of the County Assessor at the same time ad valorem
tax is due and is to be collected in the same manner. The
Marin County Tax Collector shall collect the tax and any
penalty or interest due hereunder. The full amount due under
this ordinance shall constitute a debt to the Area.

An action for the collection of any tax due hereunder
may be commenced in the name of the Area in any court
having jurisdiction of the cause.

SECTION V. Delinquencies. To any amount of the tax
created by this ordinance which becomes delinquent, the
Marin County Tax Collector shall add a penalty in an
amount equal to any penalties owing for delinquencies in the
ad valorem property tax. The tax and penalty shall bear
interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property tax until paid.

SECTION VI. Severance Clause. If any section of this
ordinance is held invalid or unenforceable by any court and
such judgment becomes final, then that section may be
amended by a majority vote of this Board to conform with
the judgment of such court, provided such amendment is
consistent with the purpose and intent of this ordinance.

If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase or clause of
this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such deci-
sion shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of
this ordinance. The people of County Service Area 27 here-
by declare that they would have adopted this ordinance, and
each section, subsection, sentence, phrase or clause thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, sub-
sections, sentences, phrases or clauses may be declared
invalid.

SECTION VH. Effective Date. This ordinance shall
become effective not later than thirty (30) days after its
adoption by the Board of Supervisors, but shall not take
effect unless and until it is approved by two-thirds of the
voters voting upon this ordinance at an election to be held on
November 7, 2006.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the
Board of Supervisors of County Service Area 27, held on the
25th day of July, 2006, by the following vote:

AYES:	SUPERVISORS Charles McGlashan, Harold

C. Brown, Jr., Steve Kinsey,
Susan L. Adams

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT: SUPERVISOR Cynthia L. Murray

s/SUSANL. ADAMS
President, Board of Supervisors

ATTEST:

s/MATTHEW H. HYMEL
Clerk

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASUREJ

COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 27
SPECIAL TAX FOR PARAMEDIC SERVICES
MEASURE J

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
ordinance of the Board of Supervisors of County Service
Area No. 27 imposing a special tax to continue emergency
paramedic services in the amount of thirty nine dollars
($39.00), increasing by three dollars ($3.00) per year for not
to exceed forty eight dollars ($48.00) per year for each liv-
ing unit, and in the amount of thirty nine dollars ($39.00)
increasing by $3.00 per year per 1,500 square feet of struc-
ture of each developed parcel in non-residential use, as
defined in said ordinance will be confirmed and adopted.
Dated: August 24, 2006

s/PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J

Since 1982, the voters in the Ross Valley have overwhelm-
ingly approved a special tax to provide paramedic service.
To continue this high standard of emergency medical care
for four more years, you must now re-approve this tax with
a modest proposed increase. The initial Ross Valley Para-
medic Authority (RVPA) tax provided for a single ambu-
lance. The demand for paramedic service from our citizens
dictates that service levels continue to expand and evolve.
We ask that you consider a modest increase of $9.00 in the
first year and if needed a $3.00 annual increase in the
remaining three years, in order to maintain our current lev-
els of service and to plan for future improvements based on
community demand for high quality, fire department based,
advanced life support paramedic services.

Your parcel tax pays for a significant portion of the para-
medic program and enables us not to directly bill our Ross
Valley resident customers. Additional funds are collected
from medical insurance companies and through billing of
non-resident customers. In addition, your tax covers
expenses associated with paramedic training, medical sup-
plies and equipment, and the replacement of ambulance
vehicles when needed.

Our goal is to continue to provide state of the art para-
medic care in the Ross Valley. We need your vote to con-
tinue this vital service. Vote YES on Measure J.
s/HAROLD BROWN
Marin County Supervisor
s/ROGER MEAGOR
Fire Chief

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE J
WAS FILED.

CM27-2