County of
San Diego

Sample Ballots voter information Pamphlet

GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2006

IF YOU INTEND TO VOTE BY MAIL:

/ Complete and return the application on the back cover

✓	Save this pamphlet; another will not be sent with your
ballot

✓	Individuals with permanent absentee voter status, please
refer to page one for additional information

IF YOU INTEND TO VOTE AT THE POLLS:

✓	Check back cover for your polling place. Polls open at
7 a.m. and close at 8 p.m.

✓	Don't wait! Call before Election Day if directions are
needed or check www.sdvote.com

/ Mark and take this pamphlet with you to the polls

For questions or additional information,
call 858-565-5800 or 1-800-696-0136

Election night results available at
www.sdvote.com

Mikel Haas
Registrar of Voters
5201 Ruffin Road, Suite I
San Diego, CA 92123

026

/

RINCON RANCH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
Proposition U

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROP U Shall the Rincon Ranch Community Services District be
^ v authorized to establish and levy a special tax override,
for a period of 10 years, on all taxable real property within its boundaries for
the purpose of providing funds for repair and resurface of the roads
maintained by the district, with this special tax not to exceed five dollars and
twenty cents ($5.20) per acre, or portion thereof, plus one hundred fifty
dollars ($150) per parcel of land per year?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds of the voters.

Full text of this proposition
follows the argument.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This proposition, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the proposition, would establish
an annual special tax for ten (10) years on all taxable' property within the Rincon Ranch
Community Services District (“District'’).

Maximum Amount of Tax

The special tax may not exceed $5.20 per acre or portion thereof. In addition, the special tax also
includes a charge of $150 per parcel. For example, one parcel consisting of 10 acres would pay
$202.00 (10 X $5.20 = $52 + $150 = $202), and one parcel consisting of one acre would pay
$155.20 ($5.20 + $150 = $155.20).

Purpose and Use of Special Tax Revenue

This proposition requires that all special tax revenue be used for the purposes of repairing and
resurfacing of the roads maintained by the District.

A “YES” vote is a vote in favor of establishing a special tax for ten years for the purposes of
repairing and resurfacing the roads maintained by the District.

A “NO” vote is a vote against establishing a special tax for ten years for the purposes of repairing
and resurfacing the roads maintained by the District.

SD 026-048

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION U

Your friends and neighbors on the Rincon Ranch Community Services District Board have placed
a proposition on the November Ballot to provide the necessary funds to improve the existing
roads that the district maintains. If passed, Proposition U will collect the required funds over the
next 10 years and make the improvements starting around 2014. By that time, it will be 22 years
since our last overlay project. The last overlay was funded from a similar special road tax
approved by the voters in the district.

The only revenue the district currently receives is a portion of the 1% general tax revenue,
approximately $9,500 annually, which is barely enough for insurance, required audit fees, county
tax collection and road maintenance charges. It is imperative that we protect our investment in
our roads NOW. If we allow further deterioration it will cost thousands more in the future.

We urge you to vote YES ON PROPOSITION U. Let’s protect our roads and property values.

MANNY GREY	BERNARD JENSEN

ROSALIO PLASCENCIA	LORI A. JOHNSON

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION U

No argument against the proposition was filed
in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-22G0-2

SD 026-049