ORDINANCE NO. 1451

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WOODLAND
ADDING ARTICLE V TO CHAPTER 23 OF THE WOODLAND MUNICIPAL CODE
RELATED TO A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The City Council of the City of Woodland does ordain as follows:

Section 1. Authority. The City Council enacts this ordinance in accordance with the authority
granted to cities by Article XI, Section 7 of the California Constitution.

Section 2. Repeal. Existing Article V of Chapter 23 of the City of Woodland Municipal Code is
hereby repealed.

Section 3. Addition of article. Article V is hereby added to Chapter 23 of the City of
Woodland Municipal Code to read as follows:

“Section 23.73. Definitions.

For the purpose of this chapter the following words terms shall have the meaning
given in this section:

(a)	The words “in the city” shall mean and include all territory within
the city limits.

(b)	“Operative Date” shall mean the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the later of the adoption of this
article and the approval by the voters of the city of a measure approving the
imposition of a transaction and use tax; provided that, if the city shall not have
entered into a contract with the State Board of Equalization as required by
Section 23.75 prior to such date, the Operative Date shall be the first day of the
first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract. If this
amendment is approved on December 13, 2005, and the measure is approved at
the June 6, 2006, election, the Operative Date shall be October 1, 2006.

(c)	“Termination Date” initially shall mean the twelfth anniversary of
the Operative Date and, if approved by a majority of the electors voting on the
measure at an election held subsequent to the June 6, 2006, election, shall mean
such later date as the electors may approve. If the Operative Date is October

1, 2006, the initial Termination Date shall be September 30, 2018.

319707.3

1

Section 23.74. Purpose of article.

The city council hereby declares that this article is adopted to achieve the
following, among other, purposes and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7286.52 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which
authorizes the city to levy a transactions and use tax if a majority of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose, which election shall be consolidated with a regularly
scheduled general election for members of the city council, in accordance with
Section 2(b) of Article XIII C of the California Constitution.

(b)	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that incorporate
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

(c)	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that impose a
tax and provide a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the
State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(d)	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same
time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions of this article.

Section 23.75. Contract with state.

Prior to the Operative Date, the city shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation
of this article.

Section 23.76. Imposition of transactions tax; transactions tax rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the city at the rate of one-half of one percent of the

319707.3

2

gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in the city on and after the Operative Date and before the Termination Date.

Section 23.77. Place of sale.

For the purposes of this article, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

Section 23.78. Imposition of use tax: use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
Operative Date and before the Termination Date for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent of the sates
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

Section 23.79. Adoption of provisions of state law — Generally.

Except as otherwise provided in this article and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part
of this article as though fully set forth herein.

Section 23.80. Adoption of provisions of state law — Limitations; Limitations on
collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

(a)	wherever the State of California in named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of the city shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made:

(i)	when the word “State” is used as a part of the title of the
State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

319707.3

3

(ii)	when the result of that substitution would require action to
be taken by or against the city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing
the functions incident to the administration or operation of this article;

(iii)	in those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the state, where the result
of the substitution would be to:

(A)	provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property that would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject
to tax by the state under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, or

(B)	impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property that would
not be subject to tax by the state under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

(iv)	in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

(b)	the word “city” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 23.81. Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
article.

Section 23.82. Exemptions and exclusions.

(a)	Measure of tax. There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by
the state or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

(b)	Transactions tax exemptions. There are exempted from the
computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

(i)	sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and

319707.3

4

exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this state, the United States, or
any foreign government;

(ii)	sales of property to be used outside the city that is shipped

to a point outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a
carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this
paragraph, delivery to a point outside the city shall be satisfied:

(A) with respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-city address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating
that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

(B) with respect to commercial vehicles, by registration
to a place of business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from
that address;

(iii)	the sale of tangible personal property if the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the Operative Date; and

(iv)	a lease of tangible personal property that is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the
Operative Date.

For the purposes of subsections (iii) and (iv) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	Use tax exemptions. There are exempted from the use tax imposed
by this article, the storage, use or other consumption in this city of tangible
personal property:

(i)	the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax;

319707.3

5

(ii)	other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code of the State of California;

(iii)	if the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date;
and

(iv)	if the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease that is a
continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease
prior to the Operative Date.

For the purposes of subsections (iii) and (iv) of this section, storage, use or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(d)	Exemption from collection of use tax. Except as provided in
subsection (e), a retailer engaged in business in the city shall not be required to
collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the city or participates within the city in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the city
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the city under the authority of the retailer.

(e)	Retailers not exempt from collection of use tax. “A retailer
engaged in business in the city” shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at
an address in the city.

(f)	Credit against use tax for transactions tax paid elsewhere. Any
person subject to use tax under this article may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to another jurisdiction

319707.3

6

imposing, or retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to
the use tax.

Section 23.83. Adoption of amendments to state law.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this article to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to the sales and use taxes
and that are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this article; provided,
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this article.

Section 23.84. Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the city, or against
any officer of the State or the city, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
article, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or
any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 23.85. Severability.

If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this article and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.”

Section 3. Effective Date and Notice, This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately upon its adoption. The City Clerk is
hereby directed to publish this ordinance at least once, within fifteen (15) of its adoption, in a
newspaper of general circulation published and circulated in the City of Woodland.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Woodland on December 13, 2005
by the following vote:

AYES:	Council Members Flory, Monroe, Peart, Pimentel, Rexroad

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

7

319707.3

ATTEST:

Sue Vannucci, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

M. Siprelle, City/Attorney

S ACRAMENTO\AMS\28412.1

319707.3