Measure A: San Leandro Quality Education Act, San Leandro Unified School District

To provide quality educational programs for San Leandro students, improve school safety, attract and retain quality teachers and staff, restore custodians and update technology, shall the San Leandro Unified School District be authorized to establish the San Leandro Quality Education Act, a special tax of one-and-twotenths cents ($0.012) per square foot per parcel for six years, beginning July 1, 2006, offering an exemption to citizens 65 years and older, with expenditures monitored by an independent oversight committee?

Impartial Analysis from Alameda County Counsel
Measure A, a San Leandro Unified School District ("the District") qualified special parcel tax measure, seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy a parcel tax on each parcel of taxable land located wholly or partly in the District for a period of six years, effective as of July 1, 2006, for the purposes set forth in the measure. The measure would authorize the District to levy this special parcel tax at a rate of one-and-two-tenths cents ($0.012) per square foot per year on all residential, commercial, industrial and institutional parcels of real property, whether such parcels are improved or unimproved. An exemption would be granted for any parcel owned and occupied by one or more persons 65 years of age or older who occupy the parcel as a principal residence upon a one-time application for exemption.
A school district, following notice and public hearings, has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Section 2 of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution and sections 50075-77, 50079, and 53722 et seq. of the California Government Code.
If approved, these tax funds could only be used by the District for the specific purposes set forth in the measure, which include the improvement of school safety, attraction and retention of quality teachers and staff, and funding for custodians, academic and enrichment programs, technology support and equipment.
The tax will be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax collector at the same time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of this tax.
If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the measure will fail and the District will not be authorized to levy the special tax as proposed by this measure.  s/RICHARD E. WINNIE  County Counsel
The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure A, which measure is printed in full in this sample ballot pamphlet. If you desire an additional copy of the measure, please call the Alameda County Registrar of Voters at 510-272-6933 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Arguments For Measure A
A Yes vote on Measure A is an investment in the community of San Leandro. Our local schools are under funded by millions of dollars each year compared to nearby school districts. We cannot rely on the State. For almost two decades, California has invested far less than the national average in spending per student. We must stand up as a community and invest in our schools. Every local dollar raised to strengthen our schools protects the value of all the homes and businesses in San Leandro. A Yes Vote on Measure A will:
	•	Attract and retain the best and most experienced teachers and staff.
	•	Expand arts and music education at all schools.
	•	Enhance career and technical education at the high school and align our vocational education classes to the industry needs in Alameda County.
	•	Help academically at risk students at the middle schools.
	•	Restore custodians to keep our schools, classrooms and restrooms clean and well maintained.
	•	Improve student safety at all schools.
	•	Provide students better access to technology. 

All funds will be monitored by an Independent Citizens Oversight Committee to ensure the money is well spent and directly benefits students. Senior citizens aged 65 and over are entitled to a complete exemption from Measure A. If we want to retain and attract families and local businesses to San Leandro, we must invest in our schools. If we want to protect and improve the values of our homes, we must invest in our schools.
 Passage of Measure Arepresents an investment in the future of our community as well as a commitment to the children of San Leandro. We all benefit when our public schools succeed. Please join us in voting YES on Measure A.
s/ROBERT J. P. MAGINNIS  Former San Leandro Chief of Police  s/ELLEN M. CORBETT  Former San Leandro Mayor and State Assemblymember  s/MARY BETH BARLOGA  Retired Elementary and Middle School Principal  s/BARBARA L. TIERNEY  Long-Standing San Leandro Resident  s/DALE LEW  Alameda County Teacher of the Year 2005

Rebuttal to Arguments For
There is no question that San Leandro's schools need additional funding.
 If we want to retain and attract families and businesses to San Leandro, we must invest wisely in our schools. Measure A is not a wise investment, nor a long-term commitment to our students or our teachers.
 Measure A was written in haste, without collaboration from all stakeholders and was not crafted to fully meet our students' needs. While we agree with the objectives of the Measure, we believe the funding is insufficient and lacks accountability for results. It will not provide the necessary impact. Our students deserve more.
 Almost $5 million in priorities were identified. Measure A, however, fails to address more than half of those priorities. Instead, we need a true blueprint for future success. Given our district's historical fiscal management difficulties, we must identify measurable objectives and develop a plan to meet them. Just as we strive to thoroughly educate our students, we must thoroughly educate and involve all stakeholders. We will all benefit from a vibrant, healthy school system.
 Measure A is only a short-term, incomplete solution. All stakeholders must partner now to make lasting and effective change. We are encouraged that, unlike this Measure, discussion between the business community and the San Leandro Unified School District has begun in earnest well in advance of a Bond Measure for November 2006.
 A "No" vote on Measure A sends a strong message to the School Board to start over and genuinely engage the entire community to fully meet the needs of our students.
s/JACK PAPAZIAN  San Leandro Chamber of Commerce President  s/DAN WALTERS  San Leandro Chamber of Commerce Past President  s/ROBERT BRANNAN  San Leandro Chamber of Commerce President-Elect  s/DALE REED  San Leandro Industrial and Technology Roundtable  Chair and Longtime Resident  s/KATHERINE FRATES  Longtime Resident

Arguments Against Measure A
We all recognize the San Leandro Unified School District needs additional sources of reliable on-going revenue. The roots of the San Leandro Unified School District's current problems extend back almost thirty years with a long, steady decline to our significant problems of today.
 Why is the San Leandro Unified School District's Board of Education wasting over $60,000.00 with a Special Election trying to sneak by a $60.00 to $100.00 per household parcel tax past the people who will pay for it + the voters and property owners of San Leandro?
 We believe that any discussions on how to resolve the San Leandro Unified School District's on-going revenue issues must honor the following principals:

	•	That we need good faith effort by the San Leandro Unified School District (Administration, Labor and PTA) to begin an on-going dialogue with the Greater Community of San Leandro, the City Council, Chamber of Commerce, Homeowners' Associations, Churches, Service Clubs and Social Organizations, as to the Districts needs and its plans to get back on a solid financial footing again.
	•	That we must recognize that due diligence will take time and cannot be rushed or hurried.
	•	That the San Leandro Unified School District must do a better job of team-building with the members of the Greater Community of San Leandro and use the team-building process to develop realistic goals and strategies on how each goal can be obtained.
	•	That until these steps are followed, the San Leandro Unified School District's current problems will continue. We urge you to send a clear message to the Board of Education.

SAY NO TO WASTEFUL SPECIAL ELECTIONS. 
SAY NO TO POOR PLANNING. 
SAY NO TO BAD FISCAL MANAGEMENT. 
VOTE NO ON MEASURE A. 
s/THOMAS R. SILVA 
Chairman 
Southern Alameda County Advisory Committee California Apartment Association 
Political Action Committee

Rebuttal to Arguments Against
Measure A has the support of business leaders, community leaders, teachers, parents, principals and elected offi- cials who live and vote in the San Leandro Unified School District. The argument against is signed by a landlord who does not live and does not vote in the district. His children will never feel the impact of the no vote he urges.
 The choice we face as residents is simple. A Yes vote is a vote for the students attending our local public schools. A No vote is a vote against education.
 Everyone agrees that the schools in San Leandro need more money. Measure A is the only reasonable local solution that has been moved forward. AYes vote on Measure A will help attract and retain great teachers and staff, help at risk students, keep our schools safe, secure and clean, and improve student access to computers and technology. A no vote sends a message to our students that we know your schools are under funded, but we do not care.
 All funds from Measure A stay in San Leandro to benefit our local schools. Any property owner 65 years of age or older can apply for a complete exemption from Measure A. To make sure the community knows exactly how every dollar is spent, an Independent Citizens Oversight Committee will be formed to monitor all expenditures and report them directly to the community.
 Please join us in our quest to make San Leandro schools great. Great schools make great communities. Vote Yes on Measure A.
s/LEROY SMITH  President, Wilson Elementary School Site Council  s/PEGGY COMBS  Co-Chair, 1997 San Leandro School Facilities Bond  s/JUAN MARTINEZ  Parent Volunteer of the Year and PTA President of Bancroft Middle School  s/JACK MERRION  San Leandro Apartment Owner  s/TIM HOLMES  Local Business Owner, San Leandro Chamber of Commerce Member, and Vice President Broadmoor Neighborhood Association

Full Text of Measure A
This proposition may be known and referred to as the San Leandro Quality Education Act.
 INTRODUCTION  To provide quality educational programs for San Leandro students, improve school safety, attract and retain quality teachers and staff, restore custodians and update technology, shall the San Leandro Unified School District be authorized to establish the San Leandro Quality Education Act, a special tax of one-and-two-tenths cents ($0.012) per square foot per parcel for six years, beginning July 1, 2006, offering an exemption to citizens 65 years and older, with expenditures monitored by an independent oversight committee?  This Measure provides the additional funding required to restore, maintain and enhance a quality San Leandro educational program.
 PURPOSES  Upon approval of two thirds of those voting on this Measure, the District will be authorized to levy a qualified special tax, known to as and referred to as the San Leandro Quality Education Act, for the following purposes:  A. School Academic and Enrichment Programs: Up to twenty percent (20%) of the available revenues of this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the purpose of providing each District school site School Academic and Enrichment Programs in areas such as music, the arts, athletics, sciences, career technical, alternative/intervention, tutoring and student activities.  B. Improve School Safety at all District Schools: Up to nine-and-one-half percent (9.5%) of the available revenues of this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the purpose of improving school safety at all District schools.  C. Attract and Retain Highly Qualified Teachers and Staff: Up to thirty-three percent (33%) of the available annual revenues of this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the purpose of attracting and retaining highly qualified teachers and staff by (i) providing more competitive salaries; (ii) preventing the elimination of certificated and classified staff positions; (iii) supporting the continuation of student support services; and (iv) supporting the maintenance of existing educational programs.  D. Restore Custodians: Up to nine-and-one-half percent (9.5%) of the available annual revenues of this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the purpose of increasing staffing of custodians.  E. Increase Music and Art Enrichment Programs at Every School: Up to four-and-seven-tenths (4.7%) of the available annual revenues of this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the purpose of implementing the 5- year Visual and Performing Arts Plan (drama, music, arts, dance).  F. Enhance Career Technical Education: Up to four-and-seven-tenths percent (4.7%) of the available annual revenues of this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the purpose of providing staffing, program coordination, equipment expansion and upgrades, and start-up computers for career technical education (e.g. an engineering academy).  G. Help At-Risk Middle School Students: Up to four-and-eight-tenths percent (4.8%) of the available annual revenues of this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the purpose of providing a class for at-risk students at the middle school level.  H. Provide Technical Support: Up to eight-andtwo- tenths percent (8.2%) of the available annual revenues of this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the purpose of providing computer technical support to each District school and department.  I. Implement Measure: Up to five-and-six-tenths percent (5.6%) of the available annual revenues of this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the purpose of providing necessary clerical and office support in order to implement this Measure.  The Board of Education will fund all of the programs listed above, unless the Board of Education determines in any given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Board of Education will not fund any program or reduction other than those listed above from the proceeds of the special taxes.  The San Leandro Quality Education Act would be in effect for a period of Six (6) years, beginning July 1, 2006, at the rates shown below, on each assessor's parcel located wholly or partly within the school district.
 PROCEDURES  Each year as part of the annual budget adoption process, the Board of Education will determine the total amount of expenditures necessary to provide a superior educational program including the specialized services and programs enumerated above and deduct therefrom the projected revenue to be gathered from sources other than this special tax. The difference, if any, shall be the maximum amount of funds to be derived from the tax authorized by this measure for such year. If the necessary funds are such that the maximum rates set forth below are not needed, then the Board of Education shall reduce these rates proportionately so that only the necessary amount of funds is raised.  Prior to the levying of the special tax in any given year, the Board will conduct a public hearing on the matter. Notice of the time, date, and place of hearing shall be published pursuant to Government Code Section 6061 at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the District, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. Following said hearing each year, the Board shall adopt a resolution establishing the amount of tax to be raised for that year and the rate per parcel, not to exceed the rates and amounts enumerated below. Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible as herein provided.
 RATES
 The special tax shall be levied on all parcels of property in the San Leandro Unified School District, except where such parcels are otherwise exempt from taxation. The tax levied shall be at the rate of one-and-two-tenths cents ($0.012) per square foot per parcel per year, on all residential, commercial, industrial and institutional parcels, whether such parcels are improved or unimproved.  An exemption shall be granted for any parcel owned and occupied by one or more persons 65 years of age or older who occupy the parcel as a principal residence, following a one-time application for exemption.
 ACCOUNTABILITY AND COMPLIANCE MEASURES
 In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure:  (a) Proceeds of this San Leandro Quality Education Act shall be deposited into a resource fund which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds in the District and shall be applied only as set forth in this Measure.  (b) An Annual Report, including the revenues generated by this San Leandro Quality Education Act, the expenditures of these monies, and the status of any projects funded by these monies, shall be produced by the Assistant Superintendent + Business of the District for the Board of Education no later than January 1 of the year following the fiscal year during which the monies were expended. In addition, the regular interim reporting of the Measure's fund balances given to the Board of Education shall also be transmitted directly to the Quality Education Oversight Committee (below).  (c) To ensure additional accountability, the Quality Education Oversight Committee, an independent volunteer community committee, shall oversee all expenditures funded by the measure to ensure that said funds are spent in accordance with the purposes approved by the voters. This committee shall monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and shall report annually to the community at a public board meeting on how these funds have been spent.  The committee shall be composed of members nominated as follows:
(1) One parent/legal guardian member nominated by each of the District's School Site Councils.
(2) One parent/legal guardian member nominated by the District English Language Advisory Committee (DELAC).
(3) One employee member nominated by each of the District's employee unions/associations.
(4) Two members residing within the San Leandro Unified School District boundaries nominated by the City of San Leandro.
(5) Two members nominated by the San Leandro Chamber of Commerce.
(6) One member nominated by the Rental Housing Owners Association of Southern Alameda County.
(7) One senior citizen member residing within the San Leandro Unified School District boundaries nominated by the City of San Leandro Senior Commission.
(8) One San Leandro High School (SLHS) student member nominated by the SLHS principal.
(9) One Lincoln High School student member nominated by the Lincoln High School principal.
(10) One member nominated by the District's Superintendent of Schools. All nominations shall be confirmed by the Board of Education.

(d) Each year, in connection with the annual audit of the District's finances, an independent auditor retained by the District shall determine whether funds generated by this Measure have been allocated and expended in compliance with the conditions of the Measure, generally accepted accounting principles, and the Standards and Procedures for Audits of California K-12 Local Educational Agencies. 
(e) The above provisions shall be in addition to civil remedies available at law for assuring compliance with the terms of this Measure.
 PROTECTION OF FUNDING  Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the District's adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.