<resolution> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B
THE TOURISTS’ FAIR SHARE ACT

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF INYO,

STATE OF CALIFORNIA AMENDING CHAPTER 3.20 OF THE
INYO COUNTY CODE, TO INCREASE THE
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX RATE

WHEREAS, Chapter 1, Part 1.7, of Division 2 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code (Section 7280 et seq.) authorizes the
Board of Supervisors of a County to levy a tax on the privilege of
occupying a room, rooms, or other living space in a hotel, tourist
home or house, motel, or other lodging, within the unincorporated
area of the County; and

WHEREAS, such taxation is commonly referred to as “transient
occupancy tax” or “T.O.T.”; and

WHEREAS, the County’s existing transient occupancy tax is
imposed at the rate of nine percent (9%) of the rent charged by the
lodging operator; and

WHEREAS, in order to more equitably spread the County’s costs
of providing services to tourists, and ensure that they pay their “fair
share,” the County wishes to raise the T.O.T. rate to twelve percent
(12%); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code Section 53723 and
Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, the Board of Supervisors
is both authorized and required to submit this ordinance (entitled
“The Tourists’ Fair Share Act”), which would make such increase in
the County's existing T.O.T. rate, to the voters for approval; and

WHEREAS, because said ordinance would increase the County’s
existing transient occupancy tax, which is a general tax, Article XIIIC
of the California Constitution requires that the election on the
ordinance be consolidated with a regularly scheduled general
election for members of the board of supervisors; and

WHEREAS, the next regularly scheduled general election for
members of the board of supervisors is November 7, 2006.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Supervisors, the County of
Inyo, State of California, ordains as follows: <resolutionend>










<full> SECTION I.	TITLE.

This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as “The Tourists’
Fair Share Act.”

SECTION II.	FINDINGS	AND DECLARATIONS.

The Board Finds and Declares as Follows:

•	Inyo County is a major recreational area for tourists and
visitors from around the world. One reason for such appeal
is the County’s scenic treasures and natural resources,
including vast expanses of undeveloped and pristine
mountains, valleys, and deserts, and other government-owned
land. In fact, 98% of the land in Inyo County is government-
owned.

•	Government-owned land generates little or no property tax
revenue or in-lieu revenue. The small percentage of private,
taxable land in the County is primarily devoted to residential
and small business purposes, and is sparsely populated,
thereby generating minimal property tax revenue. Additionally,
local property tax revenue has been taken and used by the
State of California to help fund its own obligations.

•	The County expends significant and increasing funds each
year for services such as law enforcement, public health,
social services, mental health, search and rescue, as well
as for streets and highways, solid waste disposal sites, and
other infrastructure.

•	Much of such infrastructure and services are utilized, made
available to, and relied upon by tourists and other visitors
year-round. Yet the current transient occupancy tax imposed
upon such tourists and visitors - who benefit greatly from
County infrastructure and services - covers very little of the
County’s total costs of providing that infrastructure and
services. Such an inequity should be addressed, so that
tourists and visitors will pay more of their fair share.

• This Ordinance does not expand the Transient Occupancy
Tax (T.O.T.) to camping sites or spaces at campgrounds or
RV parks, but only applies to “hotels” as previously defined
in Section 3.20.020 of the Inyo County Code.

SECTION III.	SECTION 3.20.030 AMENDED

Section 3.20.030 of the Inyo County Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:

3.20.030	TAX IMPOSED.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is
subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of twelve percent (12%)
of the rent charged by the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed
by the transient to the county which is extinguished only by payment
to the operator or to the county. The transient shall pay the tax to
the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is
paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid
with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's
ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due
is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax collector may require
that such tax shall be paid directly to the tax collector.

SECTION IV. VOTER APPROVAL REQUIRED.

As required by law, the Board of Supervisors shall call for a
special election to be conducted within the boundaries of the county
on November 7,2006, for the purpose of submitting the tax increase
set forth in this ordinance to all of the electors within the County.
Such election shall be consolidated with the statewide general
election held on that date and will be conducted in conformity with
applicable elections laws, and constitutional voting requirements.
The tax increase set forth in this ordinance shall be imposed only
if it is approved by a majority of the voters voting upon such tax
increase in such election.

SECTION V. SEVERABILITY.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by
a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed
this ordinance, and each and every section, subsection, sentence,
clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without
regard to whether any portion of this ordinance would be subsequently
declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION VI.	EFFECTIVE DATE.

This ordinance provides for an increase of the County's existing
transient occupancy tax. and requires approval by a majority of the
voters voting upon such tax increase at the statewide general election
held on November 7, 2006. If so approved, this ordinance shall
become effective on January 1, 2007.

SECTION VII.	PUBLICATION.

Before expiration of fifteen (15) days from the adoption hereof,
this Ordinance shall be published as required by Government Code
Section 25124. The Clerk of the Board is hereby instructed and
ordered to so publish this Ordinance together with the name of the
Board members voting for and against same.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 1st day of August, 2006 by the
following vote:

AYES: Supervisors Arcularius, Cash, Williams, Bilyeu and Cervantes
NOES:	-0-

ABSTAIN: -0-
ABSENT: -0-

s/ SUSAN CASH
Chairperson, Inyo County
Board of Supervisors

ATTEST: Ron Juliff

Clerk of the Board

By Patricia Gunsolley

Assistant Clerk of the Board <fullend>











<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

State law authorizes a county to impose a tax on the privilege
of occupying, for a period of 30 days or less, a room, rooms, or
other living space in a hotel, tourist home or house, motel, or other
lodging. This tax is commonly referred to as “transient occupancy
tax" or “T.O.T." and is the “bed tax” paid by people who stay at hotels,
motels, and other lodging facilities. A county’s T.O.T. Is only applicable
in the unincorporated areas of the county. In Inyo County, a county
T.O.T. does not apply within the boundaries of the City of Bishop.

Inyo County’s existing T.O.T. is a general tax imposed at the rate
of 9% of the rent charged by operators of hotels, tourist houses,
and motels in the unincorporated areas of the county. As a general
tax, the revenues from this tax may be used by the County Board
of Supervisors to fund any county service or activity. The County’s
existing T.O.T. does not apply to camping sites or spaces at a
campground or RV park.

Measure “B”, if passed, would approve the “Tourists’ Fair Share
Act” ordinance. This ordinance would amend the Inyo County Code
to increase the County’s transient occupancy tax (T.O.T.) from 9%
to 12%. This ordinance makes no other changes to the County’s
T.O.T. The increased T.O.T. would only be paid by people who stay
at hotels, motel, and other lodging facilities in the unincorporated
areas of the County, and would be imposed, levied and collected
starting January 1, 2007, in the same manner, at the same time,
and subject to the same penalties as the County’s existing T.O.T.
Neither the County’s existing T.O.T., nor the increased T.O.T. would
apply to camping sites or spaces at campgrounds or RV parks if
Measure “B” is passed. Like the County's existing T.O.T., the revenue
from the increased T.O.T. could be used by the Board of Supervisors
to fund any program, activity, department, or office of the County.

This measure will pass only if it is approved by a majority of the
voters voting upon this measure in this election.

A “YES” vote is a vote to increase the County’s Transient
Occupancy Tax (T.O.T.) from 9% to 12%.

A “NO” vote is a vote against increasing this tax. <impartialend>










<impartialsigs> s/ Paul N. Bruce
Inyo County Counsel <impartialsigsend>









<fiscal> FISCAL ANALYSIS
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

Based on a five (5) year average of Transient Occupancy Tax
collections throughout Inyo County, Measure B would increase
projected County revenues by $250,000 in fiscal year 2006/2007
in which the measure would be In effect for only six (6) months
and by approximately $500,000 in each subsequent year. This
measure would not increase County expenditures by any significant
amount, nor would it cause the County to exceed its Proposition 4
(Gann) limit. <fiscalend>










<fiscalsigs> si Leslie L. Chapman, MS CPA
Inyo County Auditor-Controller <fiscalsigsend>









<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The Tourists’ Fair Share Act - An Ordinance of the

County of Inyo, State of California Amending Chapter 3.20
of the Inyo County Code, to Increase the
Transient Occupancy Tax Rate

This tax increase will not be paid by the citizens and residents
of Inyo County. The Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) is a local tax
charged to guests for hotel and motel room rents. The tax will not
apply to RV Parks and Campgrounds.

The TOT rates in surrounding communities are: 12% Mono County,
13% Town of Mammoth Lakes, and 12% City of Bishop. When
passed this measure will raise the Inyo rate from 9% to 12%. The
increase will mean approximately $480,000 annually in new revenue.
This will be utilized through the General Fund to support functions
such as: Public Safety, Building Safety, Parks and Recreation,
Libraries, Museums and Law Enforcement. These services benefit
both the tourists and residents of Inyo County.

Visitors regularly utilize the full range of County services during
their stay. Asking them to pay for a portion of that usage through
TOT rates is common throughout California. TOT rates in California
range up to 15% in many jurisdictions. Yet, where TOT rates have
increased there have been no reports of a reduction in tourist visits.
Transients expect to pay for the services they receive.

Further, Inyo County reimburses motel operators for their costs
in collecting and reporting TOT taxes. Consequently, this increase
should have no impact on hotels and motels in the County.

Your yes vote will result in an increase to County revenues that
will help defray the rising costs for services. Taxing travelers to pay
their share will relieve the tax burden on County taxpayers.
Remember, if you don’t stay in a local motel you won’t pay this tax.

The following individuals and Organizations are supporting this
measure: Mayor of the City of Bishop John Young, Mayor Pro Tempore
of the City of Bishop Frank Crom, Bishop City Council Members
Susan Cullen, Martin Connolly and Kathryn Henderson, Bishop City
Administrator Rick Pucci, Bishop Police Chief Joe Pecsi, Big Pine
Chamber of Commerce, Independence Chamber of Commerce, and
the Bishop Chamber of Commerce. <favorend>






<favorsigs> Inyo County Board of Supervisors by:

s/ Supervisor Susan Cash, Chairperson <favorsigsend>







<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

The Tourist’ Fair Share Act - An Ordinance of the

County of Inyo, State of California Amending Chapter 3.20
of the Inyo County Code, to Increase the
Transient Occupancy Tax Rate

The Voters have defeated this issue twice. Now, for the third
time, we are faced with the same ballot measure. No matter how
it is worded this initiative still adds up to putting discretionary money
into the hands of the Board of Supervisors promoting fiscal
unaccountability.

Tourists do pay their fair share for services used through sales
tax in addition to money spent at local businesses that in turn pay
the County of Inyo taxes and fees to cover such services provided.

Shouldn’t “promotion of tourism” be included as one of the
functions supported by a tax solely funded by tourism as is common
throughout California?

This tax unfairly targets one single industry in Inyo County. This
industry, by the way, according to a California Travel and Tourism
Commission report contributes 3.6 million dollars annually to Inyo
County coffers.

If we are going to increase a tax, let’s make it a fair tax for all
and demand responsible spending by our Board of Supervisors. <againstend>










<againstsigs> s/ Jeanne Willey

Voters in Favor of Common Sense Solutions <againstsigsend>










<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

The Tourist' Fair Share Act - An Ordinance of the

County of Inyo, State of California Amending Chapter 3.20
of the Inyo County Code, to Increase the
Transient Occupancy Tax Rate

"The Voters in Favor of Common Sense Solutions” wanted the
Board of Supervisors to place a sales tax on the ballot that would
be paid by everyone-including you. Is it "common sense" to tax our
residents on basic necessities (diapers, toothpaste, gasoline) to
provide services for tourists? NO! It is common sense to have tourists
pay their fair share. Creating additional revenue will aid in balancing
the county's budgets in times of ever-rising costs of mandated public
services without cost to Inyo residents.

Studies show that over 50% of the refuse deposited annually in
County landfills is generated by tourism. Further, on any given day,
40-50% of the participants in the Inyo County Judicial System are
not citizens of Inyo County. Tourist tax sources (T.O.T. and sales
tax), contributed only 3.3% of the County's revenue in 2005/06 -
and some of that sales tax is paid by Inyo citizens. The expenses
simply outpace the revenues generated!

Don't be fooled into thinking that most counties designate their
T.O.T revenue to Chambers of Commerce. Eleven counties responded
to the Inyo County Tax Collector's poll in late 2005 asking how and
if they designate their T.O.T. The results were: Los Angeles,
Stanislaus, Kern, Santa Cruz, Yuba, Plumas and Madera - all to
their General Fund; Humboldt and Sacramento - to their Convention
Centers; Santa Clara - all to the Arts Council; and Tuolumne - 2%
to the Visitor Center, remainder to General Fund. There is no
"common" approach in California.

"Yes" on Measure B will help ensure that more of the costs
associated with services provided to visitors of our county are paid
by visitors, rather than residents. <rebutagainstend>










<rebutagainstsigs> Inyo County Board of Supervisors by:
s/ Supervisor Susan Cash, Chairperson <rebutagainstsigsend>

