ORDINANCE NO. 340

AN ORDINANCE SUBMITTING TO THE QUALIFIED
VOTERS OF THE CITY OF SOLANA BEACH,
CALIFORNIA AT THE SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
TO BE HELD ON JUNE 6, 2006, ONE PROPOSITION,
INCREASING THE CITY’S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
TAX FROM 10% TO 13%, AND CREATING A BEACH
AREA BENEFIT TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

WHEREAS, pursuant to section 9222 of the California Elections Code, the City
Council has the authority to place propositions on the ballot to be considered at a
Municipal Election; and

WHEREAS, by Resolution No. 2006-022, adopted on February 8, 2006, the City
Council is calling a Municipal Election to be consolidated with the California Statewide
General Election on June 6, 2006, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified voters of
the City one or more ballot propositions; and

WHEREAS, the City of Solana Beach currently imposes a 10% transient
occupancy tax upon the guests of hotels and other transient accommodations located in
the City; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to raise the transient occupancy tax and
require that a portion of the transient occupancy tax revenues be used for sand
replenishment/retention and coastal access capital projects, and coastal area
business/visitor assistance and enhancements; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters at that Municipal
Election one ballot proposition entitled “Beach Area Benefit Transient Occupancy Tax
Ordinance”;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE SOLANA BEACH CITY COUNCIL DOES HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. One ballot proposition amending the Solana Beach Municipal Code is
hereby submitted to the qualified voters of the City at the Municipal Election to be held
June 6, 2006, the proposition to read as follows:

PROPOSITION

That Chapter 3.36 of the Solana Beach Municipal Code is amended by amending
Section 3.36.010, and adding Section 3.36.015, to increase the transient occupancy tax
by 3% over a period of three years, and to allocate a portion of the transient occupancy
tax for sand replenishment/retention and coastal access capital projects, and coastal
area business/visitor assistance and enhancements.

Ordinance 340

Beach Area Benefit Transient Occupancy Tax

Solana Beach Municipal Code Chapter 3.36 is amended by amending Section
3.36.010 to read as follows:

3.36.010 Taxable event.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall
pay a tax in the amount of a percentage of the rent charged by the operator as
follows:

10%, effective until December 31, 2006.

11%, effective from January 1, 2007 until December 31, 2007.

12%, effective from January 1, 2008 until December 31, 2008.

13%, effective January 1,2009.

Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city, which is
extinguished only by payment to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is
paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be
paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s
ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to
the operator of the hotel, the city manager may require that such tax shall be paid
directly to the city manager.

Solana Beach Municipal Code Chapter 3.36 is amended to add Section 3.36.015
as follows:

3.36.015 Utilization of Tax Revenues from Tax Imposed by Section 3.36.010

(a)	There are hereby created the following funds: Sand Replenishment/Retention
and Coastal Access Capital Project Fund, and Coastal Area BusinessA/isitor
Assistance and Enhancements Fund.

(b)	All revenues collected pursuant to the transient occupancy tax imposed by
the city under section 3.36.010 shall be utilized and expended solely in
accordance with this section, as follows:

(1)	Two-thirds of the amount collected in excess of 10% shall be for
deposit in the Sand Replenishment/Retention and Coastal Access
Capital Project Fund, for projects such as environmentally benign sand
replenishment and retention projects; construction of coastal access
facilities such as stairways; parks; and beach area public service
facilities. Funding of sand replenishment and retention projects shall
be given priority over other projects. Revenues from this fund shall not
be used for seawalls or operational activities. All expenditures made
shall be consistent with any certified Local Coastal Plan, including the
Land Use Plan, adopted by the City Council.

(2)	One-third of the amount collected in excess of 10% shall be for deposit
in the Coastal Area Business/Visitor Assistance and Enhancements
Fund, for activities such as local business and visitor promotion, such

2

Ordinance 340

Beach Area Benefit Transient Occupancy Tax

as Chamber of Commerce assistance and North County Convention
and Visitors Bureau assistance; special event assistance; public art
projects; and enhancements to areas serving visitors including the
Highway 101 corridor and Cedros Avenue.

(3)	All transient occupancy tax revenues not allocated pursuant to
subsections (b)(1) and (b)(2) shall be used for general governmental
purposes.

Except as amended above to modify Section 3.36.010 and add Section 3.36.015,
all remaining Sections in Chapter 3.36 shall remain the same.

The amendments to Chapter 3.36 of the Solana Beach Municipal Code
described in this proposition shall not take effect until January 1, 2007.

END OF PROPOSITION

Section 2. The proposition shall be presented and printed upon the ballot and
submitted to the voters in the manner and form set out in Section 3 of this ordinance.

Section 3. On the ballot to be used at this Municipal Election, in addition to any
other matters required by law, there shall be printed substantially the following:

PROPOSITION	YES
BEACH AREA BENEFIT TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX	
Shall the City increase the transient occupancy tax (TOT) paid by hotel and motel visitors from 10% to 13% over a three-year period, and shall two-thirds of the increased TOT revenue be allocated to	
Sand Replenishment/Retention and Coastal Access Capital Projects, and shall one-third of the increased TOT revenue be allocated to Coastal Area BusinessA/isitor Assistance and Enhancements?	NO

Section 4. An appropriate mark placed in the voting square after the word “Yes”
shall be counted in favor of the adoption of this proposition. An appropriate mark placed
in the voting square after the word “No” shall be counted against the adoption of the
proposition.

Section 5. Passage of this proposition requires the two-thirds vote of those
qualified electors voting on the matter at the Municipal Election.

Section 6. The City Clerk shall cause this ordinance or a digest of this ordinance

Ordinance 340

Beach Area Benefit Transient Occupancy Tax

to be published once in the official newspaper following this ordinance’s adoption by the
City Council.

Section 7. Pursuant to Section 9295 of the California Elections Code, this
measure will be available for public examination for no fewer than ten calendar days
prior to being submitted for printing in the sample ballot. During the examination period,
any voter registered in the City may seek a writ of mandate or an injunction requiring
any or all of the measure to be amended or deleted. The Clerk shall post notice in the
City Clerk’s Office of the specific dates that the public examination period will run.

Section 8. Pursuant to Government Code section 25123(a), this ordinance
related to elections shall take effect on February 8, 2006, which is the day of its
introduction and passage.

INTRODUCED, READ, PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the City
Council of the City of Solana Beach held on February 8, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers -	Heebner, Kellejian, Roberts, Campbell
NOES:	Councilmembers -	None
ABSENT:	Councilmembers -	Powell
ABSTAIN:	Councilmembers -	None

David A. Powell, Mayor

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
James P. Lough, City Attorneys

4