SAMPLE JALLOT

2006 GENERAL ELECTION

BALLOT CARD B

County of Amador	E	State of California	F

PROPOSITION 86

PROPOSITION 90

TAX ON CIGARETTES, INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE.

Imposes additional $2.60 per pack
excise tax on cigarettes and indirectly
increases taxes on other tobacco
products. Provides funding for various
health programs, children’s health
coverage, and tobacco-related
programs. Fiscal Impact: Increase in
excise tax revenues of about $2.1 billion
annually in 2007-08 spent for the
specified purposes outlined above.

Other potentially significant costs and
savings for state and local governments
due to program changes.

GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION,
REGULATION OF PRIVATE
PROPERTY. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

Bars state/local governments from
condemning or damaging private
property to promote other private
projects, uses. Limits government’s
authority to adopt certain land use,
housing, consumer, environmental,
workplace laws/regulations. Fiscal
Impact: Increased annual government
costs to pay property owners for losses
to their property associated with new
laws and rules, and for property
acquisitions. These costs are unknown,
but potentially significant on a statewide
basis.

Tuesday, November 7, 2006 n

:> YES

YES

CIY NO

PROPOSITION 87

ALTERNATIVE ENERGY. RESEARCH,
PRODUCTION, INCENTIVES. TAX ON
CALIFORNIA OIL PRODUCERS.
INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT AND STATUTE.
Establishes $4 billion program to reduce
petroleum consumption through
incentives for alternative energy,
education and training. Funded by tax
on California oil producers. Fiscal
Impact: State oil tax revenues of $225
million to $485 million annually for
alternative energy programs totaling $4
billion. State and local revenue
reductions up to low tens of millions of
dollars annually.

C3 YES

lY NO

COUNTY MEASURES

MEASUREK

AMADOR COUNTY TRAFFIC SAFETY
AND IMPROVEMENT MEASURE

Shall Amador County adopt Ordinance
1649 establishing a Vi-cent retail
transaction and use tax in the County
and its cities to implement the
Transportation Safety and Improvement
Plan and authorize issuance of bonds up
to $100 million secured by tax proceeds
for funding of transportation projects,
including:

□improving safety and traffic flow on
Highways 104, 49 and 88
■□fixing pavement and filling potholes on
local roads

■□building sidewalks and improving
pedestrian safety?

03SB25

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
AMADOR COUNTY MEASURE K

As required by law, I have prepared the following impartial analysis
i Measure K.

Measure K is on the ballot in each city and throughout the
unincorporated area of Amador County. If adopted as a special tax
by two thirds of the voters voting thereon, the Measure will establish
a % cent retail transaction and use tax (a “sales tax”) throughout
the County collected in order to implement the transportation
expenditure plan set forth in Ordinance 1649 adopted by the Board
of Supervisors, subject to annual public reports to demonstrate that
the funds have been spent according to the Ordinance. The Measure
also authorizes not more than $100,000,000 in bonds to be issued
and outstanding at any one time for funding of specific transportation
projects in Amador County, including within the cities in the County,
to be repaid by the proceeds of the tax. The tax imposed by this
Ordinance will be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the County.

The Ordinance will be administered by the County or through a
contract with the Amador County Transportation Commission or other
agency. The Board of Supervisors is responsible for the expenditure
of the tax proceeds.

According to the Ordinance, tax proceeds will be allocated:

A.	52% for State highway traffic congestion and safety
improvements, specifically:

1.	lone interim west bypass,

2.	Martell Highway 88 widening and safety improvements,

3.	Jackson Highway 49 and 88 widening and safety
improvements or bypass,

4.	Pine Grove Highway 88 widening and safety improvements
or bypass,

5.	Plymouth Highway 49 widening and safety improvements,

6.	Pioneer/Buckhorn Highway 88 shoulders widening, left-
turn lanes and other intersection improvements and
possible curve corrections.

B.	24% to Amador County for local road rehabilitation and
maintenance purposes.

C.	12% to the cities, based on population, for local road
rehabilitation and maintenance purposes.

D.	4% to maintain transportation services for seniors and the
disabled and to fund construction of transit facilities.

E.	4% to provide grants for pedestrian safety facilities consistent
with the adopted County-wide Transportation Plan.

F.	4% to fund program administration.

This special tax will be permanent. It will be collected until it is
repealed by the voters.

si John F. Hahn,

County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
or Measure K. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or
measure, please call the Amador County Election’s office at
209-223-6465 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
The elections official may, at his or her discretion, add the
following message: “You may also access the full text of the
measure on the county Web site at the following Web site
address fhttp://www.co.amador.ca.us/depts/elections1."

FISCAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY AUDITOR-CONTROLLER
AMADOR COUNTY MEASURE K

Amador County will impose a 1/2 cent transaction and use tax
for transportation purposes if approved by voters in November 7,
2006 and will take effect beginning April 1, 2007. The revenues
raised will be approximately $2,200,000 for fiscal year 2007-08 for
transportation purposes.

s/ Joe Lowe
Amador County Auditor-Controller

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Measure K is a local solution to make our roads safer. Measure
K will allow Amador County to maintain our streets and roads,
including filling potholes and repairing damaged pavement.

In California, local road repair is the responsibility of each city
and county. Measure K is a 40 year Amador County Transportation
Plan that is the result of 20 years of planning by hundreds of Amador
County residents. They worked to prioritize our local road needs.
Measure K road improvement safety projects include:

1.	The lone interim west bypass

2.	Martell Highway 88 widening and safety improvements

3.	Jackson Highway 49 and 88 widening and safety
improvements

4.	Pine Grove Highway 88 widening and safety improvements

5.	Plymouth Highway 49 widening and safety improvements

6.	Pioneer/Buckhorn Highway 88 widening and safety
improvements

Measure K will also allow for complete local road rehabilitation
and maintenance on all county roads and city streets.

Measure K will also be used to build badly needed pedestrian
safety projects and to improve transportation services for seniors
and the disabled.

There are taxpayer safeguards within Measure K. By State law,
Measure K must go directly to repair and maintain Amador County's
roads and highways. Independent audits will ensure that Measure
K is used properly.

A broad coalition of local ranchers, community and business
leaders - Republicans, Democrats and Independents alike - have
thrown their support behind Measure K.

Amador County voters are urged to support Measure K. Building
these roadway projects ourselves is the only way they will get done
within the next 20 years. Help us to make Amador County’s roads
safe. Join us in voting yes on Measure K.

Supporters for Measure K:

si Daniel W. Port
Rancher

si Lori M. Bullock
Small Business Owner

si Todd D. Riebe
Amador County District Attorney

si Edward Swift
Retired, Lifetime Amador County Resident

si Sue Ellen Duncan
Small Business Owner

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

03501

