VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

RINCON VALLEY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE B

To enhance computer and technology education, increase library hours,

B expand classroom music, preserve band programs, create science labs,
provide additional help to children who excel and those who struggle with
math and reading, shall the Rincon Valley Union School District replace its
existing $39 parcel tax with a $60 annual tax on each legal parcel for twelve years
beginning July 1,2006, subsequent annual $3 increases and complete exemption
for parcels owned and occupied by senior citizens 65 years and older?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The Rincon Valley Union School District has called an election on a special tax measure to fund edu-
cational programs. State law requires voter approval before a school district can impose a special
tax.

Currently, the District imposes a special tax of $39 per year per parcel to fund educational programs.
The measure now before the voters proposes a special tax of $60 per year per parcel to replace the
District’s existing tax. The new tax would begin on July 1,2006, would increase by $3 each fiscal
year beginning in July, 2007, and would remain in effect for no more than twelve (12) years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for the purposes set out
iri the measure, which include attracting and retaining experienced teachers, providing for necessary
educational programs and materials, providing instructional assistance and materials for students
who struggle with basic skills and for students who excel, keeping school libraries open and extend-
ing library hours, managing increases in class size, maintaining and expanding music and band pro-
grams, adding science labs and purchasing equipment and supplies for them, and expanding
technology programs at each school in the District by providing necessary equipment, software, and
training.

Each year that tax funds remain unspent, an independent financial auditor will prepare and present a
report to the Board of Education stating (1) the amount of funds received and expended during the
prior year, and (2) the status of any projects or description of any programs funded by the tax. The
first report must be filed by December 31,2006, and annual reports must be filed not later than De-
cember 31 each ensuing year. The period covered by the report may be a fiscal or calendar year, or
other appropriate annual period, as determined by the Superintendent.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill
for property taxes. Multiple parcels that are contiguous and are part of one economic unit under the
same name and ownership and that do not receive separate tax bills would be charged as one par-
cel. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are
also exempt from this tax. The measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned
and occupied by a person who is 65 years of age of older. Persons claiming exemptions based on
ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for this exemption by July 1,2006, or
by May 1 of the first year the. exemption applied to them.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49501

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B, CONT.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Rincon Valley Union School District who vote on this measure vote
“yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied. The tax would be collected in the same
manner as regular property taxes starting with the 2006-2007 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The Rincon Valley Union School District has long been a leader in elementary education. Since
1994, it has relied on a local parcel tax to fund strong academic programs including art and music. A
Yes vote on Measure B will continue funding these important programs.

If Measure B is not renewed by voters, the district will be forced to cut nearly $500,000 in services for
children. Schools would see dramatic cuts in music, library hours and student access to books and
computers.

A Yes vote on Measure B will allow the district to continue these essential programs and services. In
addition, Measure B will provide tutorial help to our students struggling with basic skills like math and
reading, strengthen our hands-on science program, expand the music program and increase library

hours.

We cannot rely on State funds. In fact, insufficient state funding continues to hinder our local schools.
Measure B will provide a stable source of local funds to offset the uncertainty of state funding.

As in the past, senior citizens 65 years or older can choose to be exempt from this tax.

Rincon Valley Schools are among the best in the state due to strong community support. By
continuing the tradition of local investment in our schools, we will maintain our award-winning
band and music programs, continue to provide access to libraries and enhance computer skills es-
sential to student success.

Education is each generation’s gift to the next and we all benefit from good schools. By investing in
our local schools, we provide a quality education to the children of our community as well as protect
and increase our property values.

Please join us and vote Yes on Measure B.

s/ Tom Ford	si Robert Vieth, Associate Professor

Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector	Educational	Leadership

si Michael A. Kasper, CEO/President	si	Mariina	Boucher Harrison

United Way	Community Volunteer

si Mary Lee Jones
Teacher of the Year

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-502

49502

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES. ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE B

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

RINCON VALLEY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION ACT OF 2006

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Rincon Valley Union School District
Excellence in Education Act of 2006” or as “Measure B.”

TERMS OF EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this mea-
sure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $60 per year on each par-
cel of taxable real property in the District for no more than 12 years, commencing July 1,2006.
The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the “Excellence in Education Tax. ”
Proceeds of the Excellence in Education Tax shall be authorized to be used to attract high
quality teachers, provide for necessary educational programs and materials provide instruc-
tional assistance and materials for student who struggle with basic skills and student who
excel, keep school libraries open and extend library hours, manage increases in class sizes,
and maintain and expand music and band programs, add science labs (including equipment
and supplies), expand the technology program at each school site including necessary
•equipment, software and training. The District shall be further authorized to apply the pro-
ceeds of the “Excellence in Education Tax” to such educational materials, program and staff
expenses as may be required to supplement or enhance any of the purposes described
above for the furtherance of student achievement.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the
community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be ex-
empt from the Excellence in Education Tax upon proper application to the District. Anyone
claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before July 1,2006 or May 1 of any
succeeding assessment year. Any one application, including a previously filed exemption
application for the current parcel tax, from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for
the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to
qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Excellence in Edu-
cation Tax, the Board of Education shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the
proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the Excellence in Education Tax remain unex-
pended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall cause an independ-
ent financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Education no later than
December 31 of each year, commencing December 31,2006, stating (1) the amount of Excel-
lence in Education Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects

CONT. ON NEXT PAGE

49-503

49503

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B, CONT.

or description of any programs funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the
calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall de-
termine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appro-
priate routine report to the Board of Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute the
specific purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be ap-
plied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Excellence in Education Tax shall be collected by the Sonoma County Trea-
surer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be subject to the same penalties
as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall
bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The
collection of the Excellence in Education Tax shall not decrease the funds available from
other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in the
District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Sonoma
County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on
which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Ex-
cellence in Education Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of
age or older are exempt from the Excellence in Education Tax as described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has approved
for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Excellence in Education Act as described above to
the Sonoma County tax collection officials. The Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of
exemption or relief for any reason other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxa-
tion shall be final and binding for the purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax. Taxpayers
wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures
for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of
Excellence In Education Taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax re-
funds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this mea-
sure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the
Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of
every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part
be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

49-504

49504