MEASURER RESOLUTION NO. 2006-102	Section 4. (a) The last day for submission of direct '• arguments for or against the measure shall be by 5 p.m. on August 14, 2006. I
A RESOLUTION SUBMITTING A ONE PERCENT (1%) TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX MEASURE TO THE VOTERS AT THE NEXT GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 7,2006; FIXING DATES FOR THE SUBMISSION OF ARGUMENTS FOR	(b) The last day for submission of rebuttal arguments for if or against the measure shall be by 5 p.m. on August 24, If 2006. 1;
AND AGAINST THE MEASURE; AND DIRECTING THE PREPARATION OF AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS  WHEREAS, on June 5, 2006, the City Council of the City of Hollister adopted Resolution 2006-88, consolidating the General Municipal Election with the Statewide General Election to be held on Tuesday November 7, 2006, and further requested that the Board of Supervisors issue instructions to the County Election Department to take any and ail steps necessary for holding of the consolidated election; and  WHEREAS, the City Coundi desires to seek voter approval  of an ordinance enacting a temporary sales tax increase ; of one percent (1%) to fund general municipal services as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9; and  WHEREAS, notice of the July 31 meeting to consider this measure was published one time in the Free Lance; and  WHEREAS, based on all the information presented at the  July 31,2006 meeting, both written and oral, including the staff reports, minutes and other relevant materials, the City Council finds that under CEQA Guidelines 15060 (c)(2) and 15378, subdivisions (2) and (4) of subdivision (b), this measure does not constitute a project under CEQA and therefore review under CEQA is not required.	Section 5. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial I { analysis of the measure showing the effect of the measure. 1 The impartial analysis shall be filed by 5 p.m. on August i j 24,2006. Ij  Section 6. The Mayor is hereby authorized to prepare a § . written argument in favor of the proposed ordinance on JJj behalf of the City Council. At the Mayor’s discretion, the j ; argument may also be signed by bona fide associations or j§ J by individual voters who are eligible to vote. M *  Section 7. The City Manager is hereby authorized and Mt directed to appropriate the necessary funds to pay for the mi City’s cost of placing the measure on the election ballot. Uz  ¥  Section 8. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed m f to take all steps necessary to place the measure on the ML ballot and to cause the measure to be printed. A copy of the ML measure, including the attached ordinance, shall be made available to any voter upon request.  Ifej  Section 9. The City Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the If | County Election Department of the County of San Benito. S|_  PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the Cityjp of Hollister on the 31st day of July, 2006 by the following raj vote: p
NOW THEREFORE THE CITY COUNCIL RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:  Section 1. The City Council hereby submits to the qualified voters of the City of Hollister a measure that if approved,	AYES: Council Members Emerson, Valdivia, Pike, IE Johnson and Mayor Scattini. J|pj NOES: None. ||p|j ABSTAIN: None.  ABSENT None.
would adopt a transactions and use (sales) tax for general municipal purposes as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9. The election for this measure shall	Is
be consolidated with the general municipal election to be conducted on November 7,2006.  Section 2. The ballot language for the proposed measure shall be as follows:  Shall an ordinance be approved enacting a temporary one percent (1%) sales tax for the purpose of funding general City services such as public safety, parks, recreation programs and street improvements with the following	s/Robert Scattini, Mayor Jki  attest ®  s/Geri Johnson, City Clerk  APPROVED AS TO FORM: & s/Elaine M.Cass, City Attorney rak
mandatory restrictions?	
•	The sales tax will automatically expire five years after its operative date  *	A citizens oversight committee shall annually	P
review and report on revenues and disbursements following  a public hearing  YES NO	■
Section 3. The text of the Ordinance submitted to the voters is attached as Exhibit A.	P
	
	

M

R-1

MEASURER

ORDINANCE NO, 1006

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HOLLISTER ENACTING A FIVE
YEAR TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX FOR GENERAL
PURPOSES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HOLLISTER ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Current Municipal Code Chapter 3.28 is hereby deleted in its
entirety, and new Chapter 3.28 is added to the Municipal Code to read
as follows:

3.28,010 Title, This ordinance shall be known as the “City of Hollister
Transactions and Use Tax Ordnance”. This ordinance shall be applicable
in the incorporated territory ofgse City.

3.28,020 Definitions. As used m this ordinance, “City" means the City of
Hollister and “tax” means the transactions and use taxes, sometimes also
referred to as "sales tax" imposed under the provisions of this ordinance.
Tax revenue” and “tax revenues* mean all proceeds of the tax received
by the City from the State Soad of Equalization.

3.28,030 Operative Date. “Operative Date” means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption
of this ordinance and is the first day that the tax is imposed and collected.
The Operative Date shall be Apri 1,2007, unless a later Operative Date
becomes effective under the provisions of Section 3.28.050 below.

3.28.040 Purpose. This ordterace is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accorrplsh those purposes:

A. To impose a retail transactors and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (comnwrcing with Section 7251} of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 which authorizes Use City to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a majesty of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

8. To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of tie Sales and Use Tax Law of the State
of California insofar as those {provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transadtesns and use tax ordinance that imposes
a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and
collected by the State Board ^Equalization in a manner that adapts itself
as fully as practicable to, and Requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and aMnistrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalizations! administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transacted and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner fedt sail be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, minimizing the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimizing the burden of record
keeping upon persons subjedMb taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

3.28.050 Contract with State. (Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall
contract with the State Boaidt of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administrate and operation of this transactions and
use tax ordinance; provide^, tot if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Eqaafalion prior to the Operative Date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and m such a case the Operative Date shall be
the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract

3.28,060 Transactions Tax tee. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, ate is hereby imposed upon alt retailers in
the incorporated territory off®® City at the rate of 1% (one percent) of
the gross receipts of any telter from the sale of all tangible personal

petrols
princip
exclusi
proper
dr any

jtoapo
puch p
Carrier

|with Sf
in con

sxefoii

property sold at retail in said territory on and after the Operative Date of
this ordinance.

3.28.070 Place of Sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible persona! property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent
to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made, in the event
a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more
than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.28.080 Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property Jjndoci
purchased from any retailer on and after the Operative Date of this Mh &
ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate Sdres
of 1% (one percent) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall jpuyer,
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales orlfesider
use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.	If	.3.

3.28.090 Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as otherwise So a|tfi
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with||igned
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,|| JT
ail of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division||o fiimi
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a partariprlc
of this ordinance as though fUily set forth herein.	if

3.28.100 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use jsale&'
Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue3blig§
and Taxation Code:	jlwfe

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing!
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the*
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State!
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board off’
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;!

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken!
by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rathe!
than by or against tne State Board of Equalization, in performing the!
functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance. 1

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited tdl
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State or California!
where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with re$pect|
to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
sates, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the)

Stale under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue andf
Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales!
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property whicffe
would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of thai
code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof)!

6711,6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. I

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrasii
“retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in they
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.28.110 Permit Not Required, if a seller's permit has been issued tj
a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.28.120 Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax an,I
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the Stal
of California or by any city, city and county or county pursuant to ttijj
Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount ofanf
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount oftransactionfc^

tax the gross receipts from:	’

It

: 1. Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
ileum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
|a!ly outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and
pjvely in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
..piy under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States,
Blftfpreign government.

^2; Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped
;$$0!fit outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to
pfoirit by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a
pjpfpr shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this
f^aph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
). subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing

ith Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
' soritpiiance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
pfiumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
Infection 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
pjpess and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
uyp stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
iSitfehce; and

b.	With respectto commercial vehicles, by registration
[a!af lace of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,
iigM:% the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

: j l 3. The sale of tangible persona! property if the seller is obligated
ofamish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
rior to the Operative Date of this ordinance.

;;f 4, A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
IpibfJsuch property for any period of time for which the iessor is
|§atedto lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to
|£4dferative Date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
;ion, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed
be obligated pursuant to a contract or iease for any period of time
or which any party to the contract or iease has the unconditional right to
Irirnhate the contract or iease upon notice, whether or not such right is
iXerc&ed.

There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance,
|he storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
ft a.transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use
lax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
Iperators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly
and: exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of

ai$bns or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
feorivenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United ;States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
|b the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue
Ind Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
Jxed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date

this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
jver, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a
*■ ^ntinuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the
sssee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease
irior to the Operative Date of this ordinance.

5.	Fortbe purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
Storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any
.fight or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
■% obligated pursuant to a contract or iease for any period of time for
1 which any party to the contract or iease has the unconditional right to

terminate the contract or iease upon notice, whether or not such right is
.lexercised.

Jf 6. Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged
'in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the
surchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making
he sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving
! order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer

in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7. “A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who
registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
City.

a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption
of which is subject to the use tax.

3.28.130 Permissible uses. The revenues of the tax shall be deposited
in the City’s general fund and may be used for any legal municipal
purpose.

3.28.140 Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective
date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, shall automaticaily become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect
the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

3.28.150 Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any
officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under
this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.28.160 Termination Date. The authority to levy the tax imposed by
this Chapter shall expire five (5) years from the Operative Date.

3.28.170 Independent Oversight. The City Council shall by resolution
establish a Citizens Oversight Committee to annually review and report
on sales tax expenditures.

Section 2. Effective Date. This ordinance, following its adoption by
at least 4 affirmative votes of the City Council and its publication, shall
become effective upon the approval of the tax imposed hereunder by
a majority of the voters of the City voting thereon at the next general
municipal election to be held on November7,2006. The “Operative Date”
of the tax imposed hereunder shall be as provided in Section 3.28.030,

INTRODUCED this 31st day of July, 2006.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the City Council of the
City of Hollister held this 7th day of August 2006 by the following vote:

AYES: Council Members Emerson, Valdivia, Pike, Johnson and Mayor
Scattini.

NOES: None
ABSTAIN: None
ABSENT: None

/s Robert Scattini, Mayor

ATTEST:

Is Geri Johnson, City Clerk

APPROVEDASTOFORM:

Is Elaine M. Cass, City Attorney

R-4

'll  !  |  j  ■S1  ;  ■  ■:  i  l  1  1  1  1	i CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE R  ■ A Yes vote on Measure R will approve the adoption of an Ordinance imposing a one percent (1%) transactions and use tax (“sales tax”) on all retailers doing business in the : City of Hollister The proposed increase would be imposed in the same manner as the existing sales tax, upon the sale of tangible personal property sold at retail within the City limits and upon the storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer in I the City limits. The tax would be collected and administered by the State Board of Equalization.  The proposed sales tax is a general tax rather than a “special I purpose tax.” Revenues from the proposed sales tax would 1 be deposited into the City’s general fund and available 1 for use by the City to pay for genera! City operations and I services, such as police, fire, parks, recreation programs I and street improvements.  j The proposed tax would increase the local sales tax rate in 1 Hollister from the current 7.25% to 8.25%. If approved, the ! City’s portion of the safes tax would increase from 0.75% to [ 175%.  f The City estimates that the one percent (1%) sales tax will 1 generate approximately $4 million in revenue each year. If 1 approved by the voters, the increased sales tax would take ; effect on April 1, 2007 (the “Operative Date").  1 The City’s authority to levy the sales tax would automatically 1 terminate five (5) years from its Operative Date.  [. Measure R provides for the appointment of a citizen’s [ oversight committee which will annually review and report \ on revenues and disbursements and hold a public hearing.  I To become law, Measure R must be approved by a majority f vote of the qualified voters.  1 s/Stephanie Atigh,  1 City Attorney	ANALISIS (MPARCIAL POR LA ABOGADA MUNICIPAL MED1DA R  Un voto Si a la Medida R aprobara la adopcion de una Ordenanza que impone un impuesto del uno por ciento (1%) sobre las transacciones y e! uso (“impuesto sobre las ventas”) a todos fos minoristas con actividades comerciales en la Ciudad de Hollister. El aumento propuesto se impondrla de la misma manera en que se impone el Impuesto existente sobre las ventas, en el momenta de la venta de bienes personales tangibles que se vendan al menudeo dentro de los limites de ta Ciudad y sobre el almacenamiento, uso o el consumo de bienes personales tangibles que se hayan comprado de un minorista dentro de los limites de la Ciudad. La Directiva Estatal de impuestos sobre Ventas, Uso y Otros estaria a cargo de la cobranza y la administration del impuesto.  El impuesto sobre las ventas propuesto es un impuesto general, en lugar de un “impuesto de proposito especial”. Las recaudaciones del impuesto sobre las ventas propuesto se depositarlan en el fondo genera! de la Ciudad y estarian disponibles para uso de la Ciudad para el pago de operaciones y servicios generales de la Ciudad, como poiicia, bomberos, parques, programas de esparcimiento y mejoramiento de las cailes.  El impuesto propuesto aumentaria el tipo impositivo local sobre las ventas del 7.25% actual al 8.25%. Si se aprueba, ia parte del impuesto sobre las ventas correspondiente a la Ciudad aumentaria del 0.75% al 1.75%.  La Ciudad calcula que e! impuesto sobre las ventas del uno por ciento (1 %) generara aproximadamente $4 miiiones en recaudaciones todos los arios. Si lo aprueban fos votantes, el aumento del impuesto sobre las ventas tendra efecto el 1° de abril de 2007 (la “Fecha Operativa”).  La autoridad de ia Ciudad de imponer el impuesto sobre las ventas terminaria automaticamente a los cinco (5) arios de ia Fecha Operativa.  La Medida R requiere que se nombre un comite de supervision formado por ciudadanos que examinara y presentara un informe anual sobre ias recaudaciones y los desembolsos y celebrara una audiencia publics.  Para que adquiera fuerza de ley, ia Medida R debera ser aprobada por ei voto mayoritario de los votantes cuatificados.  f/STEPHANIE ATIGH, Abogada municipal
	j BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED “AS SUBMITTED” AND  PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.	
	$ !  1 R-8	

Argument iit Favor of Measure R

There is a real fiscal emergency in the City of Hollister,
The City is facing a $2.7 million dollar budget deficit. The
money provided by the current tax base is not sufficient to
maintain the current level of City services. The money just
isn’t there. All cuts that could reasonably be made have
already been made. Staffing has been cut over 20% since
2002. Without additional revenue, services will need to be
reduced or eliminated in all areas.

Measure R is a bargain -it will only cost pennies a day. But
the value of adequate police and fire protection, recreational
programs for kids, repair of streets and sidewalks, and the
maintenance of current City services for families, senior
citizens and ail of us cannot be calculated. All of the money
collected will stay in Hofltsier and provide service to the
citizens of Hollister. Unlike other revenues, these funds
cannot be taken by the State to benefit other communities.

Yes on Measure R Will fund services such as;

Expanding current levels of staffing for public safety and
combating gang activities.

Preventing significant reductions in all city departments in
the level of services currently provided.

Keeping the Recreation Department open and the kids off
the street.

Keeping our parks clean and maintained.

A citizens oversight committee to monitor the expenditure
of Measure R funds and a five (5) year sunset will ensure
accountability to local officials.

Let’s come together and vote YES on Measure R.

si Brad Pike, Sr.
s / Pauline Validivia,

City Council Member
s/ Richard Maddox
Gang Task Force Chairman and Local Businessman
si Leovardo Alvarez
Hollister Firefighter
si Richard Vasquez
Police Captain
City of Hollister

Argumento a Favor de la Medlda R

Hay una verdadera emergencia fiscal en la Ciudad de i
Hollister. La Ciudad enfrenta un deficit presupuestario de
$2.7 miliones. El dinero que proporciona la base Impositiva j
actual no es suficiente para mantener e! nivel de servicios j
de municipales que tenemos actualmente. Simplemente I
no hay dinero. Todos los recortes que se pudieron hacer j
razonablemente ya se hicieron. El personal se redujo en mas j
del 20% desde 2002. Sin recaudaciones adicionales habra j
que reducir o eiiminar servicios en todos los ambitos. I

La Medida R es una ganga, costara solo centavos por
dia. Pero el valor de contar con proteccion adecuada de I
policia y bomberos, programas recreativos para los nifios, j
reparacion de las cades y banquetas y el mantenimiento
de los servicios municipales actuates para las familias,]
las personas mayores y todos nosotros es incalculable.!
Todo el dinero que se recaude permanecera en Hollister!
y proporcionara servicios a los ciudadanos de Hollister!
A diferencia de otras recaudaciones, estos fondos no
pueden ser tornados por el estado para beneficiar a otras;
comunidades.

Si a la Medida R financiara servicios como:

Expandir los niveies actuates de personal de seguridad
pubiica y para combatir las actividades de las pandiiias.
Prevenir reducciones significativas del nivel de servicios
que proporcionan actualmente todos los departamentos
municipales.

Mantener el Departamento de Esparcimiento abierto y a los
ninos fuera de las cailes.

Hacer que nuestros parques esten limpios y mantenidos.

Un comite de supervision formado por ciudadanos par;
supervisar el gasto de los fondos de la Medida R y U
finalizacion de la medida en cinco (5) ahos garantiza I;
rendicion de cuentas de los funcionarios locales.

Unamonos y votemos S( a la Medida R.

f/Brad Pike, Sr.

f/Pauline Valdivia

Miembro de! Concejo Municipal

f/Richard Maddox

Presidente de Equipo de Trabajo contra Pandiiias
empresario local

f/Leovardo Alvarez
Bombero de Hollister

f/Richard Vasquez
Capitan de Policia
Ciudad de Hollister