BEFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE

IN THE MATTER OF:

A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Lafayette, )

County of Contra Costa, State of California, Submitting to )
the City of Lafayette’s Qualified Voters at the General	)

Municipal Election a Measure Seeking Voter Approval of )
a Special Parcel Tax of Sixty Four Dollars for Each	)

Residential Equivalent Unit, Establishing Policies and	)

Procedures in Connection With Such an Election; Requesting )
the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors to Direct the )

County Registrar of Voters to Conduct the Election, Which )

Shall Be Consolidated With any Established Election on )

November 7, 2006; Directing the City Attorney to Prepare an )

Impartial Analysis of the Measure; Authorizing Arguments )
and the Filing of Rebuttal Arguments For or Against the )

Measure; Authorizing the City Manager to Appropriate the )

Funds Necessary to Pay the City’s Cost of Placing the	)

Measure on the Election Ballot; and Directing the City Clerk )
to Take Steps Necessary to Place the Measure On the Ballot )

and to Cause the Measure or Resolution to Be Printed._____)	Resolution	2006-23

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Lafayette (“City Council”) has evaluated the
City’s police service needs with input from the public at a noticed public hearing on June 26,
2006, to consider calling a municipal election seeking voter approval of a proposed special
parcel tax to pay for police services, as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section
7285.91; and

WHEREAS, after receiving input from the public, the City Council concluded that the
additional funding provided by the proposed special parcel tax is necessary to maintain and equip
the City’s police department; and

WHEREAS, the tax to be submitted to the voters, if approved, would be imposed on all
parcels of land within the City at a rate of sixty four dollars ($64) per residential equivalent unit,
as further described in Attachment A to this Resolution. The tax revenue would be collected by
the Contra Costa County Tax Collector’s Office and remitted to the City. The tax shall be
approved if at least two-thirds of the votes cast on the measure are affirmative. Proceeds from
the tax may only be used to pay for police services and related equipment and capital needs; and

WHEREAS, the parcel tax shall automatically terminate upon the fifth yearly anniversary
after the commencement of its collection on July 1, 2007; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Sections 9219 and 9282 set forth the procedures for
arguments in favor of or in opposition of any City measure; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Sections 9220 and 9285 set forth the procedures for rebuttal

1

arguments; and

WHEREAS, based on all of the information presented at the June 26, 2006 meeting, both
written and oral, including the staff reports, minutes, and other relevant materials, the City
Council finds that under CEQA Guidelines 15060(c)(2) and 15378, subdivisions (2) and (4) of
subdivision (b), this tax does not constitute a project under CEQA and therefore review under
CEQA is not required.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF LAFAYETTE, AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1.	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9222, the City Council of the City of

Lafayette hereby calls an election at which it shall submit to the qualified voters of the City of
Lafayette a measure that, if approved, would adopt a special parcel tax to fund police services, as
authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91. If approved, the City Council shall
provide for a Citizens Oversight Committee, which will operate under the following guidelines:

a.	Selection of Members

Members of the Citizens’ Oversight Committee (“Committee”) shall be appointed
by the City Council. The Committee shall have 5 members. The Committee
members shall not be current City employees or City vendors.

Committee members will be appointed for two years, commencing on January 1.
Terms shall expire on December 31st of the final year in office.

The City Council shall solicit Committee members through an open application
process that is promoted through a broad-based recruitment process. Any
Lafayette resident is eligible to apply for Committee membership. All
applications will be reviewed by the City Council, which will have the authority
to make all final decisions on Committee representation, subject to these
guidelines.

b.	Purpose

The Committee is charged with reviewing expenditures of funds collected through
the parcel tax measure, determining whether funds are spent, in furtherance of
police services, and issuing public reports on their findings annually.

No parcel tax revenue may be spent for any purpose other than police services.

All funds obtained under the special parcel tax measure will be deposited and
accounted for in a special fund separate and apart from the City’s General Fund.

c.	Powers.

Committee members may review the annual financial or performance audits
performed by an independent auditor with respect to the City’s allocation of funds

2

toward police services.

The Committee shall confine itself to monies generated under the special parcel
tax measure. Monies generated through other funding not used for police services
are outside the Committee’s scope of review.

In order to preserve the integrity and independence of the oversight process.
Committee members shall not be involved with the hiring or contracting for
personnel, purchase of supplies or equipment, or any other aspect of the special
tax measure funding.

The Committee is not responsible for, nor has any authority in regards to
decisions made on spending priorities, funding source decisions (e g. general or
parcel tax funds, etc.), financing plans, tax rate assumptions, or selection of
personnel, supplies, or equipment.

The City shall provide any reasonable administrative or technical assistance
required by the Committee to fulfill its responsibilities and publicize its findings.
All funding shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Council.

d.	Meetings

The Committee shall be required to meet at least once per year with specific
meeting dates to be determined by Committee members. Additional meetings
may be scheduled by the Committee as necessary.

Committee meetings are subject to the Ralph M. Brown Act. Meetings must be
noticed and open to the public to the extent required by law. Committee minutes
and reports are generally a matter of public record, and generally must be posted
on a web site provided by the City.

Committee members are expected to attend all regular meetings. Failure to attend
two consecutive meetings may result in removal from the Committee.

e.	Committee Operations

Committee members shall not be compensated for their services. Committee
members may be eligible for reimbursement of actual and necessary expenses in
accordance with the City’s reimbursement policy.

Committee members shall not have the authority to direct staff of the City unless
a majority of the members of the Committee have voted expressing the authority
to do so. Individual members of the Committee retain the right to address the
City Council, either on behalf of the Committee or as an individual.

Standard Committee decisions, positions, findings, and procedures shall require a
simple majority vote. The quorum requirement for any meeting shall be a

3

minimum of three (3) members.

The Committee shall present to the City Council, in public session, an annual
written report which shall include the following:

(1)	A statement indicating whether the City is in compliance with the
requirements of the Special Parcel Tax, as set forth in Attachment A. and

(2)	A summary of the Committee’s proceedings and activities for the
preceding year.

f.	Vacancies

Committee members may be removed from the Committee for repeated absence
(see Section d above), or by the City Council for malfeasance.

In the event of removal, resignation, disability, or death, the City Council shall
appoint a person to fill the vacant seat. Any seats initially left vacant may be
filled by the City Council at any time.

Section 2. This measure shall be designated by letter to the Contra Costa County
Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to Election Code Section 10400 et seq., the election for this
measure shall be consolidated with the established election to be conducted on November 7,
2006.

Section 3. The ballot language for the proposed measure shall be as follows:

MEASURE: APPROVAL OF A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX FOR LAFAYETTE POLICE SERVICES AT THE RATE OF SIXTY-FOUR DOLLARS PER RESIDENTIAL UNIT EQUIVALENT, TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE CONTRA COSTA TAX COLLECTOR’S OFFICE.		
LAFAYETTE POLICE SERVICES ACT.  In order to better protect the health, welfare and safety of Lafayette citizens by hiring additional police officers and purchasing equipment for the Police Department, shall the City be authorized to collect a parcel tax not to exceed $64 per year per residential equivalent unit for five years; with funds deposited into a restricted account and overseen by an independent citizen’s oversight committee guaranteeing that the money cannot be used for other purposes?	YES	
	NO	

Section 4. The resolution authorizing the special parcel tax to be approved by the
voters pursuant to Section 3 is as set forth in Attachment 1 hereto. The City Council hereby
approves the resolution, the form thereof, and its submission to the voters of the City at the
November 7, 2006, election, as required by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91.

Section 5. The City Clerk is hereby directed to cause notice of the measure to be
published once in the Contra Costa Times, the official newspaper of the City of Lafayette, in

4

accordance with Section 12111 of the Elections Code and Section 6061 of the Government
Code.

Section 6.

Section 7.

a.	An election on the measure set forth in Section 3 shall be held in
the City of Lafayette on November 7, 2006. The City Council requests
that the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County consolidate the
election on the measure with the established election on the same day.
The City Clerk is directed to file a certified copy of this Resolution with
the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County and the Registrar of
Voters of Contra Costa County on or before July 24, 2006.

b.	The election on the measure set forth in Section 3 shall be
held and conducted, the votes canvassed and the returns made, and the
results ascertained and determined as provided for herein. In all
particulars not prescribed in this Resolution, the election shall be held as
provided by law for the holding of primary municipal elections in the City
of Lafayette, and otherwise in accordance with the Elections Code of the
State of California.

c.	The election for the measure set forth in Section 3 shall be
held in Contra Costa County in the City of Lafayette on November 7,
2006, as required by law, and the Board of Supervisors of the County of
Contra Costa is authorized to canvas the returns of that election with
respect to the votes cast in the City and certify the results to the City
Council.

d.	At the next regular meeting of the City Council of the City
of Lafayette, occurring after the returns of the election for the measure set
forth in Section 3 have been canvassed and certified, the City Council
shall cause to be entered in its minutes a statement of the results of the
election.

a.	The last day for submission of direct arguments for or
against the measure shall be by 5:00 p.m. on August 14, 2006.

b.	The last day for submission of rebuttal arguments for or
against the measure shall be by 5:00 p.m. on August 21, 2006.

c.	Direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred words and
shall be signed by not more than five persons.

d.	Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed two hundred fifty
words and shall be signed by not more than five persons. Those persons
may be different persons than the persons who signed the direct
arguments. 5

5

e.	The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the
measure, not to exceed five hundred words, showing the effect of the
measure.

f.	Pursuant to Section 9285 of the Elections Code, when the
City Clerk has selected the arguments for and against the Measure, which
will be printed and distributed to the voters, the City Clerk shall send
copies of the argument in favor of the Measure to the authors of the
argument against, and copies of the argument against to the authors of the
argument in favor. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same
manner as the direct arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately
follow the direct argument, which it seeks to rebut.

Section 8. The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to appropriate the
necessary funds to pay for the City’s cost of placing the Measure on the
election ballot.

Section 9. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to take all steps
necessary to place the Measure on the ballot and to cause the Resolution
and/or Measure to be printed. A copy of the Resolution and/or Measure
shall be made available to any voter upon request.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED this 10 day of July, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES: Samson, Federighi, Anderson, Anduri and Tatzin
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

APPROVED:

ATTEST:

Ivor Samson
Mayor

6

Joanne Robbins
City Clerk