CITY OF MANTECA
MEASURE M
The Manteca Gang and Drug Prevention,
8-1-1 Emergency, and Public Safety
Improvement Measure.

To hire/train. additional firefighters and police officers to
reduce gang and drug crimes, expand gang and drug
prevention programs; expand neighborhood patrols of
schools and parks, improve emergency response times by
replacing outdated emergency radio communications
equipment; purchase firefighter protective clothing arid
breathing apparatuses shall the City of Manteca enact a 1/2
cent sales tax with citizens’ oversight committee and
independent annual financial audits?


FULL TEXT OF MEASURE M

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO. 1335 2

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE
CITY OF MANTECA ADDING CHAPTER 3.09 TO THE
MANTECA MUNICIPAL CODE. IMPOSING A 1/2 CENT
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR THE IMPROVEMENT
OF GANG AND DRUG PREVENTION, 911 EMERGENCY,
AND PUBLIC SAFETY TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MANTECA DO HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1: Chapter 3.09 is hereby .added to the Manteca
Municipal Code, to read as follows:

“3.09.010. , TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the
Manteca Gang and Drug Prevention, 9-1-1 Emergency, and.
Public Safety Improvement Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The City of Manteca hereinafter shall be called
"City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated
territory of the City.

3.09.020. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

3.09.030. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve
the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To. impose a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 .which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shali be
operative if two-thirds of the electors voting bn the measure,
vote to approve'the imposition of the. tax at an election called
for that purpose.

B.	To	adopt	a	retail	transactions	and	use	tax

ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the
Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 .of the
Revenue and Taxation Code,

C.	To	adopt	a	retail	transactions	and	use	tax

ordinance that imposes	a tax	and provides a	measure

therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed
by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

'	p.	To	adopt	a	retail'	transactions	and	use	tax

ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be,
to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Divisioh 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,

minimize the cost of collecting the transactions arid use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

3.09.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative
date, the City shall contract with the State Board, of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted i
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.09.050.. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of
selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby i
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
City at the rate of 0.50% of the gross receipts of any retailer |
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in
said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.
Such tax shall be in addition to any other transactions tax j
imposed by this Code or applicable State law.

3.09.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this
ordinance, all retail sales are. consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-
state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to
the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which (
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and5 adopted by the State Board
of Equalization.	*

3.09.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed
on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or
other consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.50% of the
sales price of the property. The'sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. Such tax shall be in addition to any other use tax
imposed by this Code or applicable State law.

3:09.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.
Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except
insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, ali of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby
adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set
forth herein.

3.09.090. LIMITATIONS QN ADOPTION OF STATE LAW
AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and taxation ,
Code:	'

SJ 051-05

39-559

W A. Wherever the State of California is named or
i ¥} referred to as the taxing agency,.the name of this City shall be
- substituted, therefor. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the
State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control,
State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to
be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or
employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not hecessarily
limited to sections referring to the extenor boundaries of the
State of California, where the result of the substitution would
beta:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respecfto certain sales,-
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, which would not be subject to tax by the state under

i the said provision of that code.

4 In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word. "City" shall be substituted for the word1
"State" in the phfase "retailer engaged in business in this
. State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.	(

3.09.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.- If a seller’s permit has
been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit‘shall not
be required by this ordinance.

3.09.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax
or use tax imposed by. the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-BUrns
Uniform Local Sales( and Use Tax Law or the amount of1 any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the'
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	, Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel
or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property under the authority
^ of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City
which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the
contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to
a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this
paragraph, delivery to appoint outside the City shall be
satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller
is obligated tgi furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to
a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.;

. 4. A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for
which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5. For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
Or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised,

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by
this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this
City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased
by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use 'of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for. hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience arid
necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in
addition to the. exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the.operative date of this ordinance;

39-560

SJ 051-051

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises under a
lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be 'deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which ;

» any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect
use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City
or participates within the City in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting-or receiving
the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under
the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City0 shall
also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle. Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel,
or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	. Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to .Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to
the sale to the person of the property the storage, Use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.09.120. AMENDMENTS.

3.09.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No J .
injunction Or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any,
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected.	'	-

3.09.140. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this
ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the. ordinance
; and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

3,09.150. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS AND EXPENDITURE
PLAN. All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed
hereunder shall be accounted for arid paid into a special fund
or account designated for use by the City Of Manteca only for -
the Public Safety Services set forth in the Program Guidelines
and Public Safety Expenditure Plan for the administration and
expenditure of the tax proceeds, attached to this Ordinance
as Exhibit “1.” The Public Safety Expenditure Plan may be
- amended from time to time by a majority vote of the City
Council, so long as the funds are utilized for public safety,
police and fire' protection services; For the purposes of this.

Part, “Public Safety Services” means (a) obtaining, furnishing,
operating, and/or maintaining police protection equipment or
apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police
protection personnel, and such other police protection service
• expenses as are deemed necessary by the City Council for
the benefit of the residents of the City;1 (b) obtaining,
furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining fire protection ||p)
equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of
fire protection personnel, and such other fire protection
service expenses, including capital expenses, as are deemed
necessary by the City Council for' the benefit of the residents
of the City. No revenues collected pursuant to the tax levied
hereby may be spent ori department administrators’ salaries,
General Fund operating expenses in effect at the time this
ordinance becomes effective, or projects not a part’ of the
Public Safety Measure Police and Fire Expenditure Plan. It is
the intent of the People that revenues collected hereunder
shall supplement, rather than supplant, existing City
expenditures for Public Safety.	v ,

3.09.160. ESTABLISHMENT OF CITIZENS’. OVERSIGHT
COMMITTEE.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date
of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of (he Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and taxation Code,
shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate So as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance unless any
increase in the rate of this tax is first approved by 2/3 of the
voters of the City of Manteca voting on such question.

B.	Pursuant to California Elections -Code Section
9217 or, any successor statute, the City Council of the City of
Manteca may amend or repeal this ordinance and any of its
exhibits, but not increase or extend the rate of tax imposed
herein, without a vote of the people.

A.	Committee Established.

There is hereby established in the City of Manteca a Citizen’s
Oversight Committee to monitor the expenditures of revenue
collected pursuant to this Chapter only and report to the
People and the City Council.

B.	Selection of Members.	,. ,

Members of. the Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall be
appointed by the City Council. The Committee shall consist of
five members. The Citizens’ Oversight Committee members
shall not be current City of Manteca employees, officials,
contractors or. vendors of the City. Past employees, officials or
vendors shali be eligible to serve on the Committee, provided
that there are no conflicts of interest as determined by the
City Attorney.

U Of the members of the Committee first appointed, three shall
f) be appointed for terms of two years and two for terms of three
- years. Their successors shall be appointed for terms of three
years. No member may serve more than two consecutive
three-year terms.

The City Council shall solicit Citizens’ Oversight Committee
members through an open application process that is
promoted through the City’s adopted recruiting process. Any
Manteca resident is eligible to apply for Committee
membership, subject to the appointment categories specified
• above. All applications will be reviewed by the City Council,
which will have the authority to make all final decisions on.
Committee representation, subject to these guidelines.

C.	Purpose and Jurisdiction.

The Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall review expenditures
of revenue collected pursuant! to this Chapter only to
determine whether such funds are expended for the purposes
specified in the then-current Public Safety, Measure Police1
and Fire Expenditure Plan, and issuing repprts on their
findings to the City Council and public at least. annually.
Committee members may also review the annual financial or
performance audits performed by an independent auditor.
The Committee shall .confine its oversight specifically to
revenues generated under'this Chapter. Revenue generated
through other sources shall be outside the jurisdiction of the
Pubjic Safety Measure Citizens’ Oversight Committee.

In order to preserve the integrity and independence of the
^ oversight process, Committee members will not play a, formal
n role jn contracting, project management, or any other aspect
y of the Public Safety Measure funding.

The Committee is not charged with decision-making on
spending priorities, schedules, project details, funding source
decisions (e.g. leveraged funds, developer fees, etc.),
financing plans, or tax rate assumptions. The Committee shall
serve jn art advisory-only role to the City Council. The
Committee shall have no jurisdiction other than that delegated
to it by the People pursuant to this Ordinance.

The City of Manteca City Manager or his designee shall
provide any reasonable administrative or technical assistance
required by the Committee to fulfill its responsibilities or
publicize its findings.

D.	Meetings

The Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall meet semi-annually
(or as otherwise provided for in approved or amended by-
laws) with. specific meeting dates to be determined by
Committee members. Citizens’ Oversight Committee
meetings are subject to the Brown Act. Meetings must be
noticed and open to the public. Committee minutes and
reports are a matter of public record, and must be posted on a
web site provided by the City. Additional meetings may be
scheduled by the Committee as necessary,. All Committee
members shall attend a training and orientation session prior
to the first regular Committee meeting.

Committee' members are expected to attend all regular
>. meetings. Failure to. attend two consecutive meetings may
P result in removal from the Committee at the discretion of the
City Council.

E.	Committee Operations

The Citizens’ Oversight Committee will select members to
serve as Chair and’Vice Chair, of the Committee; A City staff
person will be appointed by the City Manager or his designee
to serve as Secretary. The Secretary will be responsible for
preparing, posting and distributing agendas and taking
minutes at each meeting. Approved minutes shall be made
available to the public. • Committee decisions, positions,
findings and procedures shall require a simple majority vote of
those Members in attendance. The quorum requirement for
any meeting shall be a minimum of three (3) members..

F.	Vacancies

Committee members may be removed from the Committee
only by the City Council for repeated absence (see Section D
above), for malfeasance, for failing to meet the qualifications
set forth in this Section or for inability or unwillingness to fulfill
the duties of a Member. In the event of removal, resignation,
dr death, the City Council shall appoint a . person to fill the
vacant seat.

G.	Miscellaneous

With the exception of those items specifically addressed in
these Guiding Principles, the Committee may draft and adopt
its own standard procedures and by-laws by majority vote. All
Citizens’ Oversight Committee procedures and by-laws
remain subject to review and approval by the City Council.
Citizens’ Oversight Committee reports and audits are subject
to review and approval of the City Council.

Section 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to
the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use
taxes and shall take effect 10 days following certification of
the vote by the City Council.”

Section 3. The City Clerk shall certify the passage of this
ordinance, publish the same as required by applicable law,
and forward a copy of the adopted ordinance to the Board of
Equalization.



Exhibit 1

City of Manteca Public Safety Expenditure Plan
1/2% Sales Tax Initiative
Five-Year Expenditure Plan

Sales Tax Ease	
Current Sales Tax Base	$8,000,000
Initiative %	50%
New Sales Tax Increment	$4,000,000

~ ComrounityNeeds
Anti- Gang Units
Anti-Drug Units
School Resource Officers - Gang
Additional Patrol Officers
Fire Department Staffing - Station 4 Airport/Louise
Fire Department Staffing - Ladder Truck

e All positions listed represent new proposed staffing
requests. Funding also includes related emergency
communications equipment, protective equipment and
" other safety gear. Positions will not be used to supplant
________existing	General	Fund-authorized	personnel.	v;

Funding Plan Years 1-5 v : :	
Total Police Funding	$9,056,375
Total. Fire Funding	8,983,935
Total Funding Years 1-5	$18,040,310

Year 1		
Sales Tax		$4,000,000
1 Gang Officer 1 Gang Sergeant ' '  1	Drug Investigator  2	Patrol Officer.  3	Fire Engineers - Station #4	$ 130,090 J 43,220 130,090 260,180 370,050	1,033,630
Remaining BalanceYear 1.		$2,966,370

Year 2		
Sales Tax		$4,200,000
Balance Year 1 ,		2,966,370
1 Gang Prev/Sch. Res. Off. (SRO)	$ 139,775	
2 Patrol Officers	279,550	
T Traffic Sergeant	153,875	
1 Detective	139,775	
3 Fire Captains - Station #4	453,600	
3 Firefighter - Station #4 .	327,760	
3 Fire Engineers - Ladder Truck.	199,825	
Continuing New Personnel Costs	1,074,800	$2,768,960-
Remaining Balance Year 2		$4,397,410

Year 3		
Sales Tax		$4,410,000
Balance Year 2		4,397,410 1
1 Gang Prev/SRO	$ 150,235	
3 Patrol Officers	450,705	
1 Traffic Officer	150,235	
3 Fire Lieutenants - Ladder Truck	442,300	
Continuing New Personnel Costs	3,192,205	$4,385,680
Remaining Balance Year 3		$4,421,730

Year 4	
Sales Tax	$4,630,500
Balance Year 3	4,421,730
Continuing-New Personnel Costs	4,726,975
Remaining Balance Year 4	$4,325,255

Years ^	
Sales Tax	$4,862,025
Remaining Balance Year 4	$4,325,255
Continuing New Personnel Costs	5,125,065
Remaining Balance Year 5	$4,062,215

Funding Plan Years 6-10	
Sales Tax	$28,733,840
Remaining Balance Year 5	4,062,215
Continuing Personnel Costs	32,472,350
Remaining Balance Year 10	$323,705

Over the length of the Measure, the City’s intent shall be to equally divide between Police and Fire services all proceeds of the tax levied and imposed.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M
Prepared by Manteca City Attorney

Measure M would raise revenue to pay for improved police,
fire and paramedic services in the City Manteca by
authorizing a one-half, percent transaction and use tax
(commonly referred to as a “sales tax”) within the City. The
one-half percent tax would be paid in addition to current sales
taxes. The new revenue measure, has been approved by the
City Council; if approved by two-thirds of the voters, the tax
would go into effect April 1, 2007.

Current State law permits cities to adopt additional sales and
use taxes for special purposes. Measure M requires that the
revenue raised be used only for the special purpose of “Public
Safety Services” as defined in the Expenditure Plan.that is a
part of Measure M. Generally, “Public Safety Services,” for
which Measure M funds could be spent by the City, include
(a) obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining police
protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and
benefits of police protection personnel, and such other police
protection service expenses as are deemed necessary lay the
City Council for the benefit of the residents of the City; (b)
obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining fire
protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and
benefits of ifire protection personnel, and such other fire
protection service expenses, including capital expenses, as
are deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of
the residents of the City. No revenues collected pursuant to
Measure M may be spent on department administrators’
salaries, General Fund operating expenses in effect at the
time the Measure becomes effective, or projects not a part of
the Public Safety Measure Police and Fire Expenditure Plan.
The City Council may amend the Expenditure Plan, in a .public
•process, from time to time.

Measure M specifies that it is the intent of the voters that new
revenues collected shall supplement, rather than supplant,
existing City expenditures for Public Safety. This means that
Measure M funds must be spent in addition to funds the City
of Manteca already spends on public safety.

Measure M requires the City Council to appoint an
independent Citizens Oversight Committee of five Manteca
residents to monitor the expenditure of Measure M revenues
and report to the People and the City Council. Members of
the Oversight Committee cannot have conflicts of interest or
benefit financially from Measure M revenues. The Measure
also requires the City’s independent auditors to complete and
submit for public review an annual audit report. The audit
report must review whether the sales tax revenues collected
by the City are collected, managed and expended in
accordance With the requirements of applicable law.

A "Yes” vote on Measure M favors imposing the sales and
use tax for Public Safety Services. A “No” vote opposes it.

39-564

S4 051-055

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

Vote YES on M to increase Manteca’s public.safety. Consider
the facts:

•	There are more 1,000+ known gang members and
associates in Manteca.

•	At least ted active meth labs are probably operating in
and near K/lanteca.

• • Drug arrests have increased nearly 20% in the past 4.'
years.

•	9-1-1 emergency center calls have increased 37% in

the past 5 years.	•

•	Since 1980, Manteca has grown by 36,000+ residents -
leaving 3,000 homes outside the 5 - minute response , >

„ time. .

•	To date, Sacramento politicians have taken $11 Million
from Manteca to balance California’s budget - at
YOUR expense.

YesonM reducesgang/drug-relatedcrimes.

Yes on M fights meth labs/drug trafficking by putting more
police on the streets.	■

Yes on M hires 15 additional police officers & 15 additional
firefighters.	(	.

Yes on M increases the number of gang prevention, anti-drug,..

and school resource officers.

Yes on M improves police’ and firefighter training.

Yes, on M upgrades outdated emergency radio . '
communications equipment.

Yes on M funds youth crime prevention and intervention
programs. . •

Yes on M purchases protective clothing and breathing
■	•. apparatus for firefighters.

Yes on M improves 9-1-1 emergency response times for
firefighters to rapidly help those having a heart
attack or stroke, before brain damage sets in.

Measure M includes strong fiscal accountability requirements,
such as annual, independent financial audits and independent
Citizen’s Oversight. All, funds will be deposited into a separate
Public Safety Trust Fund to ensure money is spent as promised.
Revenues wili not supplant existing Public Safety-funding.

Unfortunately, NO other funding exists to improve our safety.
And remember, shoppers and visitors to Manteca will pay a
significant share, of this funding.

Increase safety and keep our children out of gangs and off drugs
-vote YES on M.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M X ,

The listed “facts” are normal and expected as the population sdf"
increases. There is more of “everything” good and bad; There
are more police and fire calls. But there are also more people
paying taxes.' Example: we could afford 3 fire stations with ,
30,000 taxpayers, we now have 67,000 taxpayers. Why can’t we
l afford another fire station?

And so on with the other arguments.

• Repetition is riot an argument.

This is not a referendum on the, performance of the police and fire
departments. It is not a popularity contest or a show of “support”.

This is a tax increase, pure and simple. Various authorities
(councils, administrators, labor; unions) collectively determine
staffing and equipment levels. Our leaders, not us, decide to
spend tax money on downtown planters or to spend it on police
and fire. Don’t be made to feel “guilty.”

Don’t be swayed by fear or claims that your child will be in a gang
> or on drugs unless you vote for a new tax.

Vote NO - and do something positive with the extra $20 a month
your family will have: .With the money you save each month
parents can buy an educational book or subscription, an
enrichment activity, little league, dance classes, or a family
outing, etc. You are what keep your children away from drugs
and gangs. Spending on your own family’s health isn’t selfish -
strong families mean strong communities - and you know what is
best for your family.

Submitted by:	■	^

1st Joseph De Angelis,

Taxpayer

Submitted by:

Is/ Kathryn J. Aartman-Weed, President,

Boys & Girls Club Manteca/Lathrop
Is/ Franco Torrice, Vice-President,

Manteca Firefighters Local 1874
/s/ Willie W. Weatherford, Mayor of Manteca
/s/ Chuck Crutchfield, Youth Development Professional
/s/ Linda J. Silva, Vice-President,

Manteca Police Employees Association

SJ 051-056

39-565

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

Raises Manteca’s sailes tax from 1 percent to 1.5 percent,, a 50%
tax increase. Will raise the overall sales tax from 7.75 percent to
8.25 percent -- among the highest in the nation.

Will cost a Manteca family of four $239 a year - and more in the
future.

The tax money may be spent on anything. This measure
contains a “9217 provision” — This or any future council can
remove any restriction, any promises, or any oversight - at any
time -- with no election needed. With a 9217 provision, all'bets
are off.	1

I .

A scientifically based campaign tries to convince you through fear
and promises of safety. The city used taxpayer; money for slick
expensive fliers and skilled image consultants. Many supporters
are actually paid with public money. They say they love the new
tax so you should too.	'	-,

Currently, the . city budget is balanced; the police and fire
departments are modern, well funded, equipped and staffed.
Current taxes’ and fees already fund new personnel,, equipment
and facilities.

The Measure M spending plan incorporates the expected new
hiring but also assumes a whopping 43 percent pay raise for
police personnel in just five years! In addition, more of the. City
, may be declared, “blighted” - diverting more property taxes to the
“redevelopment agency.”

Say NO to more taxes which make Manteca poorer and less
A competitive. This measure lets government spend more on
y .various pet projects (e.g. Big League Dreams) and then demand
the taxpayers give more “for the police and fire.” With no written '
guarantee of even one penny going to “public safety.”

Expect more of our government, reject the propaganda
campaign, vote NOI

http://mantecalive.cbm

Submitted by:

Isl' Joseph De Angelis
Taxpayer

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

The opponent’s argument is simply untrue. Don’t be misled.

FACT: Measure M-, costs iust 5 dents on a $10 purchase - a
small price to pay to’keep children from gangs and drugs.
Measure M does NOT apply to purchases of food or medicine.
Manteca’s sales tax will, still be lower than the maximum ,
permitted by California law. .	■

FACT: Every dime generated can only be spent on Manteca
public safety programs - not for anything else. This written
restriction applies to current and future City Councils, without
exception. ALL funds must be deposited into a separate,
restricted Public Safety Trust Fund.

FACT:, Measure M was developed with input, from Manteca
community members and public safety leaders. Hundreds of
residents participated, to identify needs. Measure M was
designed to address community priorities: reducing oano and
drug-related crimes and hiring more police officers and
firefighters to protect our neighborhoods, parks, and areas
surrounding our schpols. .	'•

.FACT: Without Measure M the City doesn’t have the funding to
increase gang prevention, anti-drug and school resource officers.
Measure M hires 15 police officers needed to keep our children
- from gangs and drugs.

FACT: Measure M requires strict financial accountability, bevond
that required by law, such as published, annual audits and
Independent Citizens’ Oversight to monitor spending and ensure
funds are spent as promised to voters.

To see the Public Safety Expenditure Plan specifying the uses of
Measure M, visit makemantecasafer.com. Other cities have used
similar programs to fight gangs and drugs - why not Manteca?

Submitted by:

Isl Stephen Schluer, Manteca Police Officers Association '

Is/. JoAnn Jamerson, Manteca Senior Citizen .

Is/ David Breitenbucher, Manteca Firefighters Local 1874
/s/. Steve DeBrum, Manteca City Council,

Mayor Pro Tempore
Is/, Henry “Duke” Dutra, 53 Year Manteca Resident
and Taxpayer

