ORDINANCE NO. 19

AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
MARIN WOOD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT INCREASING THE AMOUNT
OF THE SPECIAL TAX FOR PARAMEDIC SERVICES

WHEREAS for more than twenty five years, Marinwood Community Services District
has imposed a special tax to fund participation in regional Paramedic Services provided by the
City of San Rafael; and

WHEREAS, in 2002 the voters of Marinwood Community Services District approved
an increase of the maximum Paramedic Tax rate to $61.00 for residential units and $.08 for non-
residential structures; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of San Rafael finds that the current Paramedic
Tax rate needs to be increased so as to fully fund the Paramedic Services program; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Marinwood Community Services District desires
to submit to the District’s voters on November 7, 2006 an amendment to the Paramedic Tax
ordinance which would authorize an increase of the maximum Paramedic Special Tax rate; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Marinwood Community Services District desires
to increase the District’s appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated by the
Paramedic Special Tax in accordance with California Constitution Article XIIIB for the next four

(4)	years;

NOW THEREFORE, the Board of Directors of Marinwood Community Services
District does ordain as follows:

SECTION I. Authority, Purpose and Intent. This ordinance is adopted pursuant to
Article 3.5 of Chapter 1, Part 1, Division 1, Title V of the California Government Code (Sections
50075, et seq.), Government Code Section 61615.1 and Articles XIII(A) and XIII(B) of the
California Constitution, and it is the purpose and intent of this ordinance to impose a special tax
on property within the Marinwood Community Services District for the purposes of funding
paramedic services.

SECTION II. Maximum Tax. Upon enactment of this ordinance as hereinafter
provided, a special tax shall be imposed commencing with fiscal year 2007-2008 for the purposes
outlined in Section I hereof in an amount not to exceed eighty-five dollars ($85.00) per year for
each living unit and eleven cents ($0.11) per square foot for each non-residential structure.

SECTION HI. Tax Rate. The Board shall determine annually, based upon a budget
recommended to it, whether the basic rate shall be revised to reflect changes in charges and costs.

SECTION IV. Appropriations Limit. As required by Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution, the appropriations limit of the Marinwood Community Services District shall be
increased each year, for a period of four (4) years, by the total amount collected each year for the
Paramedic Service Special Tax.

SECTION V. Method of Collection. The special tax imposed by this ordinance for
the purposes outlined in Section I is due from every person who owns a living unit, new
residential structure, commercial unit or new commercial structure within the Marinwood
Community Services District, as reflected upon the rolls of the County Assessor at the same time

ad valorem tax is due and is to be collected in the same manner. The Marin County Tax
Collector shall collect the tax and any penalty or interest due hereunder. The full amount due
under this ordinance shall constitute a debt to the District.

An action for the collection of any tax due hereunder may be commenced in the name of
the District in any court having jurisdiction of the cause.

SECTION VI. Delinquencies. To any amount of the tax created by this ordinance
which becomes delinquent, the Marin County Tax Collector shall add a penalty in an amount
equal to any penalties owing for delinquencies in the ad valorem property tax. The tax and
penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property tax, until
paid.

SECTION VII. Severance Clause. If any section of this ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable by any court and that judgement of unenforceability becomes a final judgement,
then that section may be amended by a majority vote of this Board to conform with the judgment
of such court, provided such amendment is consistent with the purpose and intent of this
ordinance.

If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause of this ordinance is for any reason
held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
ordinance. The people of the Marinwood Community Services District hereby declare that they
would have adopted this ordinance, and each section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or
clauses may be declared invalid.

SECTION VII. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective not later than
thirty (30) days after its adoption by the Board of Directors of Marinwood Community Services
District, but shall not take effect unless and until it is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting
upon this ordinance at an election to be held on November 7, 2006.

SECTION VIII. Repeal Prior Ordinance. Marinwood Community Services District
Ordinance No. 14 is hereby repealed.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Board of Directors of
Marinwood Community Services District held this 15th day of August, 2006 by the following
vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

David S. Mitchell, President of the Board

ATTEST: __________________________

Thomas D. Home, Secretary to the Board