Do the People of the Town of Portola Valley adopt an ordinance that lowers the existing five and one-half percent (5.5%) Utility Users Tax levied on
telephone, gas, water and electricity, set forth in Chapter 3.32 of the Town of Portola Valley Municipal Code, to four and one-half percent (4.5%) for a
period of three (3) years and five (5) months beginning February 1, 2007 through June 30, 2010?

ORDINANCE

ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF
PORTOLA VALLEY AMENDING CHAPTER 3.32 [TELEPHONE,
GAS, WATER AND ELECTRICITY USERS’ TAX] OF TITLE 3
[REVENUE AND FINANCE] OF
THE PORTOLA VALLEY MUNICIPAL CODE

WHEREAS, the Citizens of the Town of Portola Valley (“Town”)
wish to reduce the 5.5% Utility Users Tax imposed on users of
telecommunications, gas and water to 4.5%.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Citizens of the Town of Portola Valley do
ORDAIN as follows:

1.	ADDITION OF CODE. Section 3.32.075 [Reduction in
General Tax] is hereby added to Chapter 3.32 [Telephone, Gas, Water And
Electricity Users’ Tax] Of Title 3 [Revenue And Finance] of the Portola
Valley Municipal Code to read as follows:

3.32.075 Reduction in General Tax. The five and one-half
percent (5.5%) taxes imposed on telephone users set forth in Section
3.32.040, electricity users set forth in Section 3.32.050, gas users set
forth in Section 3.32.060, and water users set forth in Section

3.32.070	are each reduced to four and one-half percent (4.5%) for a
period of three (3) years and five (5) months beginning
February 1, 2007 through June 30, 2010.

2.	ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW. This Ordinance is not a
project for the purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act.

3.	EFFECTIVE DATE. The effective date of this Ordinance
shall be ten (10) days after the date when the Town Council declares the
results of the election at which the Ballot Measure regarding this
Ordinance is adopted by a majority vote of the electors voting on the
Measure. The reduction of the Utility User’s Tax shall not occur until
February 1, 2007.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

This ballot measure asks whether the people of the Town of
Portola Valley wish to lower the existing five and one-half percent (5.5%)
Utility Users Tax levied on telephone, gas, water and electricity charges to
four and one-half percent (4.5%) for a period of three years and five
months, from February 1, 2007 through June 30, 2010, at which time the
tax will revert to five and one-half percent (5.5%). A “Yes” vote means the
voter is in favor of reducing the Utility Users Tax to four and one-half
percent (4.5%). A “No” vote means the voter is not in favor of reducing the
Utility Users Tax. In order for the tax to be reduced to four and one-half
percent (4.5%), the ballot measure must be approved by more than fifty
percent (50%) of the voters voting on the measure.

The proceeds from the Utility Users Tax are deposited into the Town’s
General Fund and are expended for general governmental purposes,
including, but not limited to, the maintenance of streets, parks, trails and
drainage structures. If the ballot measure does not receive a favorable
majority vote, the five and one-half percent (5.5%) Utility Users Tax will
continue to be levied and collected at a rate of five and one-half
percent (5.5%).

This ballot measure does not affect the Town’s second Utility Users
Tax, a two percent (2%) Utility Users Tax on telephone, gas, water and
electricity charges, the proceeds of which are deposited into the Town’s
restricted Open Space Fund.

/s/ Margaret A. Sloan

Portola Valley Town Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure F. If you
desire a copy of the Measure, please call the Town Clerk’s Office at
650/ 851-1700 (ex. 10), and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost. A
copy of the Measure may also be found at http://www.portolavallev.net.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

In November 2005, the voters of Portola Valley renewed the appropriations
limit for the utility users tax (UUT). The UUT has been a core component
of the Town’s budget since 1985. The UUT has two parts: a 2% charge on
utility bills to fund the acquisition of open space, and another 5.5% charge
to pay for essential Town services including law enforcement, road
maintenance, and building and planning services.

The necessity for the UUT stems in part from historically low proceeds
from property tax revenues. Under a formula established at the time of
incorporation in 1964, the Town has annually received only 4% of the taxes
collected by San Mateo County from Portola Valley property owners. Last
year the Town launched an effort to compel San Mateo County to disburse
a larger share of the property tax to the Town, and late last year the County
agreed that under state law the Town was entitled to receive 7 percent of the
property tax. This adjustment allows the voters now to reduce the UUT for
Town services from 5.5% to 4.5% without net loss of income. The 2%
UUT for open space acquisition is unchanged.

In addition to this proposed reduction in the tax rate for Town services, the
Town will no longer collect the UUT on cell phone bills. The fluid
regulatory and legal environment surrounding telecommunications has
raised questions about the applicability of the tax to cell phone usage, and
the Town deems it best to resolve this ambiguity in favor of its residents.

Portola Valley has a strong record of fiscal stability, and this reduction in
the UUT is in keeping with the Town’s tradition of prudent management of
revenues and expenditures. We invite the voters to approve Measure F on
November 7.

/s/ Steve Toben	August 13, 2006
Mayor	
/s/ Gary Nielsen	August 16, 2006
Former Mayor	
/s/ Ted Driscoll	August 14, 2006
Vice Mayor	
/s/ Michele Takei	August 16, 2006

Chair, Finance Committee

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F SUBMITTED