PROPOSED ORDINANCE FOR PROPOSITION V

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA ADOPTING A
CLEAN BEACHES AND OCEAN PARCEL TAX BY ADDING TO CHAPTER 7.64 OF THE
SANTA MONICA MUNICIPAL CODE COMMENCING AT SECTION 7.64.010 ET SEQ

THE PEOPLE QF THE CITY OF SANTA MONICA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Clean Beaches and Ocean Parcel Tax Act. Chapter 7.64 et seq, of the Santa Monica Municipal Code, entitled “Clean Beaches and
Ocean Parcel Tax Act,” is hereby enacted and shall read as follows:

7.64.010 Title and Purpose

This Chapter 7.64 et seq. may be cited as the “Clean Beaches and Ocean Parcel Tax Act.”

7.64.020 Definitions

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter shall be construed and defined in this Section as follows:

“Director” shall mean the Director of Environmental and Public Works Management Department, or his/her designee.

“Owner” shall mean the legal owner of any parcel of real property, except when the legal owner of the real property is such due to the
holding of a mortgage, note or other security, in which case the “owner” shall be deemed to the beneficial owner of said parcel of real property.

“Parcel” shall mean the smallest, separately segregated lot, unit or plot of land having an identified owner, boundaries and surface area
which is documented for property tax purposes and given an assessor’s identification number by the County of Los Angeles Tax Assessor.

“Parcel Size” shall mean the size of the Parcel measured in acres.

“Possessory Interest” shall mean possession of, claim to, or right to the possession of, land or improvements and shall include any
exclusive right to the use of such land or improvements.

“Runoff Factor” shall mean the number set forth in the table in section 7.64.040 below that represents the amount of average storm
drainage from a Parcel for a particular land use.

“Single Family Dwelling” shall mean a developed parcel with one single family detached housing unit.

7.64.030	Necessity, Authority, and Purpose

(a)	The City Council (the “Council”) of the City of Santa Monica (the “City”) hereby determines as follows:

(1)	that the cost to implement the City of Santa Monica Watershed Management Plan (the “Watershed Management Plan”) throughout the
City at the level required to provide for the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the City exceeds the amount of revenues from other

sources;

(2)	that additional revenues are needed to fund a portion of the cost of implementing the Watershed Management Plan, including financing
the operation, administration, maintenance, improvement, environmental restoration, upgrade and replacement of the existing and future storm
drainage system, on-site stormwater management systems, storm drain conveyance system upgrades, and multipurpose capital improvement
projects;

(3)	that the levy of a city-wide special tax as hereinafter provided is necessary to fund the foregoing municipal improvements and

services.

(b)	This Ordinance was approved by the voters of the City at the consolidated State general election held on November 7, 2006 by the

following vote:

Yes:___________________ No:	___________

Accordingly, the City of Santa Monica Clean Beaches and Ocean Parcel Tax (the “Tax”) is levied under this Chapter pursuant to the City’s
Charter, Government Code Section 50075 et seq., and other applicable laws. Under the Charter, it is hereby expressly provided that, as an exercise
of municipal affairs powers, the City shall be authorized to use all or a portion of the Tax allocated for capital improvements to pay installments of
principal of and interest on bonded indebtedness or with respect to leases, or similar instruments for the purposes of providing financing for any
capital improvements hereunder.

7.64.040	Tax Levy

The Tax not exceeding the maximum amounts set forth in this section 7.64.040 is hereby levied, commencing the fiscal year 2007-2008,
on all Parcels, improved or unimproved, within the boundaries of the City.

For each Parcel which is a Single Family Dwelling, the annual maximum Tax rate shall be eighty-four dollars ($84) for 2007-2008 (the
“Basic Tax” or “BT”).

For each Parcel that is not a Single Family Dwelling, the maximum Tax rate for 2007-2008 shall be calculated according to the following

formula:

Parcel Size (acrest x Runoff Factor (RF1 x BT
.0637

The Runoff Factors are set forth below:

Use Code Land Use Cateaorv		Area Breakdown	Runoff Factor
010C	Condominium	Up to 0.3257 Acre  Area in Excess of 0.3257 Acre	0.8194  0.0190
010F	Cooperative Multifamily	Up to 0.3257 Acre  Area in Excess of 0.3257 Acre	0.8194  0.0190
0200	Double, Duplex	Up to 0.6514 Acre Area in Excess of 0.6514	0.4176  0.0190
0300	Three Unit Multifamily	Up to 0.9771 Acre  Area in Excess of 0.9771 Acre	0.6815  0.0190
0400	Four Unit Multifamily	Up to 1.3028 Acre  Area in Excess of 1.3028 Acre	0.8194  0.0190
0500	Five or More Apartments or Units	All Lot Areas	0.8553
0900	Mobile Home Parks	All Lot Areas	0.8194
1000	Open Commercial	All Lot Areas	0.4733

M

E

A

S

U

R

E

V

Santa Monica / 40

1000	Open Commercial	All Lot Areas	0.4733
1100	Stores	All Lot Areas	0.9086
1200	Store Combination (w/ Office or Resid.)	All Lot Areas	0.9086
1300	Department Stores	All Lot Areas	0.9850
1400	Supermarkets	All Lot Areas	0.9762
1500	Shopping Centers (Community)	All Lot Areas	0.9578
1600	Shopping Centers (Regional)	All Lot Areas	0.9461
1700	Office Buildings	All Lot Areas	0.9086
1800	Hotels and Motels	All Lot Areas	0.9578
1900	Professional Buildings	All Lot Areas	0.9578
2100	Restaurants and Cocktail Lounges	All Lot Areas	0.9461
2300	Banks and Savings and Loans	All Lot Areas	0.9578
2400	Service Shops	All Lot Areas	0.9461
2500	Service Stations	All Lot Areas	0.9578
2600	Auto, Recreation & Construction Equipment Sales & Service	All Lot Areas	0.9461
2700	Parking Lots (Commercial - Use Properties)	All Lot Areas	0.9461
3100	Light Manufacturing	All Lot Areas	0.9086
3200	Heavy Manufacturing	All Lot Areas	0.9086
3300	Warehousing, Distribution & Storage	All Lot Areas	0.9086
3600	Lumber Yards	All Lot Areas	0.9578
3800	Parking Lots (Industrial - Properties)	All Lot Areas	0.9086
6400	Clubs, Lodge Halls, Fraternal Orgs.	All Lot Areas	0.9086
7100	Churches	All Lot Areas	0.8194
7200	Schools	All Lot Areas	0.8194
7400	Hospitals	All Lot Areas	0.7435
7500	Homes for the Aged and Others	All Lot Areas	0.6815
8100	Utilities	All Lot Areas	0.4733

M

E

A

S

U

R

E

V

The Tax imposed by this Chapter shall be assessed to the Owner unless the owner is by law exempt from taxation, in which
case, the tax imposed shall be assessed to the holder of the Possessory Interest in such Parcel, unless such holder is also by law
exempt from taxation.

The Tax shall not exceed the maximum amounts set forth in this section 7.64.040, except that the Tax shall be increased
annually by the annual percent increase for twelve month period February through January of the prior fiscal year, if any, in the Wage
Earners and Clerical Workers All Items Consumer Price Index (CPI-W) for the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County statistical area, or
any successor index.

For the purposes specified in section 7.64.050 below, the Tax shall be levied so long as it is necessary to pay for any financing
of capital improvements, and so long as necessary for services as specified in section 7.64.050.

The Tax is levied pursuant to California Government Code Section 50075 et seq. and is a tax upon each Parcel of property.
The amount of the Tax is not measured by the value of the Parcel.

7.64.050 Purposes and Uses of Tax

There is hereby established a special fund entitled “Clean Beaches and Ocean Parcel Tax Fund” to be maintained by the City.
Proceeds of the tax, together with any interest and penalties thereon (collectively, the ‘Tax Proceeds”), shall be collected each fiscal
year and deposited in said special fund, and shall be used exclusively for the implementation of the Watershed Management Plan,
including but not limited to, financing the operation, administration, maintenance, improvement, environmental restoration, upgrade
and replacement of the existing and future storm drainage system, on-site stormwater management systems, storm drain conveyance
system upgrades, and multipurpose capital improvement projects, improving the quality of stormwater, as well as complying with local,
state, and federal stormwater regulations and paying for, or securing the payment of, any indebtedness incurred for these purposes,
and any and all other purposes as more fully discussed therein. The following are goals of the Watershed Management Plan:

•	Reduce urban runoff pollution

•	Reduce urban flooding

•	Increase water reuse and conservation

•	Increase recreational opportunities and open space

•	Increase wildlife and marine habitat

The Tax Proceeds may also be used to enforce and administer the Tax, including costs for submission of any measure to the
voters for the establishment or alteration of the Tax.

7.64.060	Exemptions

The Tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be construed as imposing a tax upon any person when the imposition of such tax upon
that person would be in violation of either the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of California. The City
Council is authorized to establish by resolution special exemption procedures and eligibility criteria for natural persons based on
income, age or disability. The Tax imposed by this Chapter shall be subject to the exemptions set forth in this section or adopted by
resolution as authorized herein.

7.64.070	Computation and Collection of Tax; Interest and Penalties

The Director or his/her designee or employee is hereby authorized and directed each fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal
year 2007-2008, to determine the Tax amount to be levied for the next ensuing fiscal year for each taxable parcel of real property within
the City, in the manner and as provided in Section 7.64.040. The Chief Financial Officer (the “CFO”) is hereby authorized and directed
to provide all necessary information to the Auditor-Controller of the County of Los Angeles to effect proper billing and collection of the
Tax, so that the installments of the Tax shall be included on the secured property tax roll of the County of Los Angeles. Unless otherwise

Santa Monica / 41

required by the Council, no Council action shall be required to authorize the annual collection of the Tax as herein provided.

The Tax shall be collected in the same manner as ordinary ad valorem taxes are collected and shall have the same lien priority,
and be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in cases of delinquency as provided for ad valorem taxes
collected by the County of Los Angeles; provided, however, that the Council may provide for other appropriate methods of collection
of the Tax by appropriate resolution(s) of the Council.

The Tax shall constitute a lien upon the Parcel upon which it is levied until it has been paid. Any unpaid Tax due under this
Chapter shall be subject to all remedies provided under the City’s Municipal Code and as provided by law.

7.64.080	Accountability; Citizen’s Oversight Committee

Pursuant to Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3 of the California Government Code, the specific purposes of the Tax and the
requirement that the Tax proceeds be applied to such purposes and the establishment of a special fund for the Tax proceeds are
as set forth in section 7.64.050. So long as the Tax is collected hereunder, commencing no later than July 1, 2008, the CFO is here
by authorized and directed to cause to be prepared and filed with the Council a report that shows the amount of Tax collected and
expended and the status of any projects funded with the Tax Proceeds. For purposes of this section 7.64.080, the CFO is authorized
to retain such consultants, accountants or agents as may be necessary or convenient to accomplish the foregoing.

The Council shall establish a Citizen’s Oversight Committee to audit the use of the Tax Proceeds. The membership, scope
and responsibilities of the Citizen's Oversight Committee shall be determined by the Council in its exercise of discretion.

7.64.090	Examination of Books and Records and Annual Audit

The CFO or Director or their designee or employee or agent, is hereby authorized and directed to examine assessment
rolls, property tax records, records of the Los Angeles County Recorder and any other records of the County of Los Angeles deemed
necessary in order to determine ownership of parcels and computation of the Tax.

A certified public accounting firm retained by the City will perform an annual audit to assure accountability of the proper
disbursement of these Tax Proceeds in accordance with the objectives stated herein.

7.64.100	Property Tax

This special parcel tax is a property tax and qualified property owners and renters shall be entitled to the benefits of the
Gonsalves-Deukmejian-Petris Senior Citizen’s Property Tax Assistance Law (California Revenue & Taxation Code Section 20501 et
seq.) and the Senior Citizens and Disabled Property Tax Postponement Law (California Revenue & Taxation Code Section 20581 et
seq.), as provided by law.

7.64.110	Refund of Tax, Penalty, or Interest Paid More Than Once; or Erroneously or Illegally Collected

When the amount of the Tax, any penalty, or any interest has been paid more than once, or has erroneously or illegally collected
or received by the City under this Chapter, it may be refunded provided a verified claim in writing therefore, stating the specific ground
upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the CFO within one (1) year from the date of payment. If the claim is approved by the CFO,
the excess amount collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited against any amounts then due and payable from the person
from whom it is collected or by whom paid, and the balance may be refunded to such person, his/her administrators or executors.

7.64.120	Savings Clause

The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any person, or to any property as to whom or which it is beyond the power
of the City to impose the Tax herein provided. If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Chapter is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause,
section or part of this Chapter and shall not affect or impair any remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this
Chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City that this Chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional,
illegal or invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.

7.64.130	Regulations

The Council is hereby authorized to promulgate such regulations as it shall deem necessary in order to implement the provision
of this Chapter, including implementing this Chapter which is hereby codified in Article 7, Chapter 7.64 et. seq. of the Santa Monica
Municipal Code or as otherwise designated by the City Clerk.

7.64.140 Increase Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the City of Santa Monica is hereby increased by
the aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this Tax for the fiscal year 2007-2008 and each year thereafter.

SECTION 2. Amendment or Repeal. The City Council is hereby authorized to adopt additional provisions consistent with the
intent of this Ordinance and to amend the provisions of this Ordinance without voter approval, provided such amendments do not
extend the Tax to a taxpayer not subject to the Tax or increase the amount of the Tax beyond the amount authorized by this Ordinance.
Any amendment to this Ordinance which extends the Tax to a taxpayer who would otherwise not be subject to it or increase the amount
of Tax beyond the maximum tax rates and escalation factors authorized by this Ordinance must be approved only by a vote of the
qualified electors or property owners of the City.

SECTION 3. Severability. If any provision, section, paragraph, sentence or word of this Ordinance, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is rendered or declared invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions, sections,
paragraphs, sentences or words of this Ordinance, and their application to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby and shall remain in full force and effect and to that end the provisions of this Ordinance are severable.

SECTION 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the Tax by the City and shall be in full force
and effect ten (10) days after the certification by the Council of the election returns indicating passage of the Ordinance by two-thirds
of the voters casting votes in the election.

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

MARSHA JONES MOUTRIE
City Attorney

M

E

A

S

U

R

E

V

Santa Monica / 42

ORDENANZA PROPUESTA PARA LA MEDIDA V

UNA ORDENANZA DEL ELECTORADO DE LA CIUDAD DE SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA ADOPTANDO UN IMPUESTO A LA PARCELA
PARA PLAYAS Y OCEANO LIMPIOS AGREGANDOLO AL CAPITULO 7.64 DEL c6DIGO MUNICIPAL DE SANTA MONICA COMENZANDO

POR LA SECCI6N 7.64.010 Y SIGUIENTES

EL ELECTORADO DE LA CIUDAD DE SANTA MONICA DECRETA LO SIGUIENTE:

SECCION1. Ley de Impuesto a la Parcela para Playas y Oceano Limpios. Capitulo 7.64 y sig. del Codigo Municipal de Santa Monica, titulado
“Ley de Impuesto a la Parcela para Playas y Oceanos Limpios,” se promulga por la presente y rezarS de la siguiente manera:

7.64.010 Titulo y Proposito

Este Capitulo 7.64 y sig. se puede citar como la “Ley de Impuesto a la Parcela para Playas y Oceanos Limpios.”

7.64.020 Definiciones

Cada vez que sean utilizadas las siguientes palabras y frases en este Capitulo se interpretaran como se define en esta Seccion a
continuacion:

“Director” significara Director del Departamento Ambiental y Administracion de Obras Publicas, o quien este designe.

“Propietario” hara referenda al propietario legal de cualquier parcela de propiedad de bienes raices, excepto cuando el propietario legal
de la propiedad sea tal a causa de la posesion de una hipoteca, pagare u otra garantia, en cuyo caso se considerara “propietario” al propietario que
se beneficia con dicha parcela de propiedad de bienes raices.

“Parcela” significara el lote mas pequeno, segregado separado, unidad o terreno que tenga un dueno identificado, un area con limites y
superficie que este documentada a los efectos del impuesto sobre la propiedad y a la que el Tasador de Impuestos del Condado de Los Angeles le
brinde un numero de identification del tasador.

“Tamafio de la Parcela” significara el tamano de la Parcela medida en acres.

“Interes Posesorio” significara posesion de, reclamo de, o derecho a la posesion de, terreno o mejoras e incluira cualquier derecho
exclusivo al uso de dicho terreno o a las mejoras.

“Factor de desague" significara la cantidad establecida en la tabla de la seccion 7.64.040 a continuacion que representa la cantidad
promedio de drenaje pluvial de una Parcela para un uso determinado de terrenos.

“Vivienda de Familia Unica” significara una parcela urbanizada con una unidad de vivienda no adosada para una familia unica.

7.64.030 Necesidad, Autoridad, y Proposito

(a)	Por la presente el Concejo Municipal (el “Concejo”) de la Ciudad de Santa Monica (la “Ciudad”) determina lo siguiente:

(1)	que el costo para implementar el “Plan de Control de Desague de La Ciudad” en toda la Ciudad al nivel requerido para proporcionar
salud, seguridad, y bienestar general para los residentes de la Ciudad excede el monto de rentas de otras fuentes;

(2)	que las rentas adicionales son necesarias para financiar una parte del costo de la implementation del Plan de Administracion de
Cuencas, incluyendo la financiacion de la operation, administracion, mantenimiento, mejora, restauracion ambiental, actualization y reemplazo del
sistema de drenaje para tormentas actual y future, sistemas de administracion de aguas pluviales en el lugar, mejoras del sistema de transpose del
drenaje pluvial, y proyectos de mejoras de capital para fines varios;

(3)	que el gravamen de un impuesto especial para toda la ciudad como se estipula de aqui en adelante es necesario para financiar las
mejoras y los servicios municipals actuates.

(b)	Esta Ordenanza fue aprobada por los votantes de la Ciudad en la election Estatal general consolidada realizada el 7 de noviembre
de 2006 por los siguientes votos:

A favor:_________________ En	contra:____________

Por consiguiente, se grava el Impuesto a la Parcela para Playas y Oceano Limpios de la Ciudad de Santa Monica (el ''Impuesto”) segun
este Capitulo en conformidad con la Carta Constitucional de la Ciudad, Seccion 50075 y sig., del Codigo de Gobierno, y otras leyes aplicables.
Segun la Carta Constitucional, por la presente se estipula expresamente que, como ejerciclo de los poderes sobre asuntos municipales, la Ciudad
estara autorizada a utilizar todo o una parte del Impuesto destinado para las mejoras de capital para pagar las cuotas del principal e interns del
endeudamiento garantizado o relacionado con arriendos, o instrumentos similares a los efectos de brindar un financiamiento para cualquiera de
las mejoras de capital de este documento.

7.64.040 Tasa Tributaria

El Impuesto que no exceda los montos maximos establecidos en esta seccion 7.64.040 se grava por medio de la presente, comenzando
el ano fiscal 2007-2008, sobre todas las Parcelas, mejoradas o no, dentro de los limites de la Ciudad.

Para cada Parcela que sea una Vivienda de Familia Unica, la Tasa impositiva maxima anual sera de ochenta y cuatro dolares ($84) para
2007-2008 (el “Impuesto B6sico” o “BT”).

Por cada Parcela que no sea una Vivienda de Familia Unica, la Tasa impositiva maxima para 2007-2008 sera calculada de acuerdo a la
siguiente fbrmula:

Tamano de la Parcela (acres) x Factor de desague (RF) x BT

M

E

A

S

U

R

E

V

.0637

Los Factores de Desague se establecen a continuacion:

Codigo de	Factor

Uso	Categoria de Uso de terrenos	Clasificacion por Areas	de Desague
01 oc	Condominios	Hasta 0.3257 Acres	0.8194
		Area de mas de 0.3257 Acres	0.0190
01 OF	Familia Multiple Cooperativa	Hasta 0.3257 Acres	0.8194
		Area de mas de 0.3257 Acres	0.0190
0200	Doble, Duplex	Hasta 0.6514 Acres	0.4176
		Area de mas de 0.6514	0.0190
0300	Tres Unidades Multifamiliares	Hasta 0.9771 Acres	0.6815
		Area de mas de 0.9771 Acres	0.0190
0400	Cuatro Unidades Multifamiliares	Hasta 1.3028 Acres	0.8194
		Area de mas de 1.3028 Acres	0.0190

Santa Monica / 43

0500	Cinco o mas Apartamentos o Unidades	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.8553
0900	Parques de Casas Moviles	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.8194
1000	Comercial al Aire Libre	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.4733
1100	Negocios	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9086
1200	Combinacion de Negocios (c/ Oficina o Resid.)	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9086
1300	Tienda de departamentos	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9850
1400	Supermercados	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9762
1500	Centros Comerciales (de la Comunidad)	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9578
1600	Centros Comerciales (Regionales)	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9461
1700	Edificios de Oficinas	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9086
1800	Hoteles y Moteles	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9578
1900	Edificios de Profesionales	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9578
2100	Restaurantes y Salas para Cocteles	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9461
2300	Bancos y Ahorros y Prestamos	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9578
2400	Tiendas de Servicios	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9461
2500	Estaciones de Servicios	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9578
2600	Automoviles, Venta y Servicio de Equipos de		
	Recreacion y Construction	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9461
2700	Lotes de Estacionamiento (Comercial -		
	Propiedades de Uso)	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9461
3100	Industrias Livianas	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9086
3200	Industrias Pesadas	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9086
3300	Depositos, Distribution y Almacenamiento	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9086
3600	Depositos de Madera	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9578
3800	Lotes de Estacionamiento (Industriales - Propiedades)	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9086
6400	Clubes, Casas de Alojamiento, Org Fraternales.	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.9086
7100	Iglesias	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.8194
7200	Escuelas	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.8194
7400	Hospital es	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.7435
7500	Hogares para Ancianos y Otros	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.6815
8100	Servicios Publicos	Todas las Areas del Lote	0.4733

El Impuesto gravado en este Capltulo se tasara sobre el Propietario a menos que el mismo este, por ley, exento de impuestos, en cuyo
caso el Impuesto gravado se tasara sobre el titular de cualquler Interes Posesorio en dicha Parcela, a menos que el titular tambien este por ley
exento de los impuestos.

El Impuesto no excedera los montos maximos establecidos en esta seccion 7.64.040, excepto que el Impuesto se incremente anualmente
por el aumento del porcentaje anual durante el periodo de doce meses de Febrero a Enero del ano fiscal anterior, si lo hubiera, en el indice de
Precios del Consumidor para Trabajadores Asalariados y Personal Administrativo (CPI-W) para el area estadistica del Condado de Los Angeles-
Riverside-Orange, o cualquier fndice sucesor.

A los efectos especificados en la seccion 7.64.050 a continuacion, el Impuesto se gravara hasta que sea necesario para pagar cualquier
financiamiento de las mejoras de capital, y hasta que sea necesario para los servicios como se especifica en la seccion 7.64.050.

Este Impuesto se grava en conformidad con la Seccion 50075 y sig. del Codigo de Gobierno de California y constituye un impuesto sobre
cada Parcela de la propiedad. El monto del Impuesto no se mide por el valor de la Parcela.

7.64.050 Objetivos y Usos del Impuesto

Por la presente se establece un fondo especial titulado “Fondo del Impuesto a la Parcela para Playas y Oceanos Limpios” para que la
Ciudad lo conserve. Los productos del impuesto, junto con cualquier interes y sanciones al respecto (colectivamente, los “Productos del Impuesto”),
seran recaudados cada ano fiscal y depositados en dicho fondo especial, y se utilizaran exclusivamente para la implementacion del “Plan de Control
de Desague de La Ciudad”, incluyendo pero sin limitarse, al financiamiento del funcionamiento, adminlstracion, mantenimiento, mejora, restauracion
ambiental, actualizacion y reemplazo del sistema de drenaje para tormentas actual y futuro, sistemas de administracion de aguas pluviales en el
lugar, mejoras del sistema de transporte del drenaje pluvial, y proyectos de mejoras de capital para fines varios, mejorar la calidad del agua pluvial,
as! como tambien cumplir con las regulaclones federates, estatales y locales para el agua pluvial, y cualquier otro objetivo como se trate de manera
mas completa en las mismas. Los objetivos del “Plan de Control de Desague de La Ciudad” son los siguientes:

•	Reducir la contaminacion urbana del desague

•	Reducir la inundacidn urbana

•	Aumentar la conservacion y reutilizacibn del agua

•	Aumentar las oportunidades recreativas y el espacio abierto

•	Aumentar la vida silvestre y el habitat marino

Los Productos del Impuesto tambten se pueden utilizar para hacer cumplir y administrar el Impuesto, incluyendo los costos de envlo de
cualquier iniciativa de ley a los votantes para el establecimiento o la alteracion del Impuesto.

7.64.060	Exenciones

El Impuesto gravado por este Capltulo no se interpretara como el gravamen de un impuesto sobre una persona cuando el gravamen de
dicho impuesto sobre esa persona constituya una violacion a la Constitucion de los Estados Unidos o a la Constitucion del Estado de California. El
concejo municipal estb autorizado a establecer por una resolucion especial, procedimientos de exencion y criterio de elegibilidad para personas
naturales basado en su renta, edad 6 inhabilidad. El Impuesto gravado por este Capltulo estarb sujeto a las exenciones establecidas en esta
seccion 6 adoptada por una resolucibn autorizada adjuntamente.

Santa Monica / 44

m 30 c co > m 2

7.64.070	Calculo y Recaudacion del Impuesto; Interes y Sanciones

El Director o quien este designe o empleado esta autorizado por la presente y orientado en cada ano fiscal, comenzando con el ano fiscal
2007-2008, para determinar el monto del Impuesto que se gravara el prdximo ano fiscal subsiguiente para cada parcela gravable de propiedad de
bienes ralces dentro de la Ciudad, de la manera y como lo estipula la Seccion 7.64.040. El Director Financiero en Jefe (el “CFO”) esta autorizado
y orientado por la presente para brindar toda la informacion necesaria al Controlador Auditor del Condado de Los Angeles para llevar a cabo la
adecuada facturacion y recaudacion del Impuesto, de manera que los pagos del Impuesto se incluir&n en el registro asegurado de impuestos de
propiedad del Condado de Los Angeles. A menos que el Concejo requiera lo contrario, no se necesitara ninguna accion del Concejo para autorizar
la recaudacion anual del Impuesto como se establece en este documento.

El Impuesto se recaudara de la misma manera que los impuestos ad valorem comunes y tendr&n la misma prioridad de derecho de
embargo, y estara sujeto a las mismas sanciones y el mismo procedimiento y venta en los casos de morosidad como lo estipulan los impuestos
ad valorem recaudados por el Condado de Los Angeles; siempre que, no obstante, el Concejo pueda establecer otros metodos apropiados de
recaudacion del Impuesto a traves de resolucion(es) adecuada(s) del Concejo.

El Impuesto constituira un derecho fiscal sobre la Parcela que se grava hasta que se pague. Todo Impuesto no pagado en virtud de este
Capltulo estara sujeto a todas las soluciones jurfdicas establecidas en el Codigo Municipal de la Ciudad y del modo que establece la ley.

7.64.080	Responsabilidad; Comite de Supervision Ciudadano

En conformidad con las Secciones 50075.1 y 50075.3 del Codigo de Gobierno de California, los objetivos especlficos del Impuesto y el
requisito de que los productos del Impuesto se apliquen a dichos efectos y el establecimiento de un fondo especial para los productos del Impuesto
se establecen en la seccion 7.64.050. Siempre que se recaude el Impuesto segun este documento, comenzando antes del 1 de julio de 2008, el
CFO esta autorizado y orientado por la presente para estar preparado para presentar al Concejo un informe que muestre el monto del Impuesto
recaudado y gastado y el estado de cualquiera de los proyectos financiados con los Productos del Impuesto. A los efectos de esta seccion 7.64.080,
el CFO esta autorizado para retener dichos asesores, contadores o agentes cuando sea necesario o conveniente para lograr lo precedente.

El Concejo establecera un Comity de Supervision Ciudadano para realizar auditorias sobre el uso de los Productos del Impuesto. Los
miembros, el alcance y las responsabilidades del Comite de Supervision Ciudadano serein determinados por el Concejo en ejercicio de su criterio.

7.64.090	Inspection de Libros y Registros y Auditoria Anual

El CFO o Director o quien este designe o su empleado o su agente, esta autorizado por la presente y orientado para examinar nominas de
tasacion, registros de impuestos sobre la propiedad, registros del Registro Civil del Condado de Los Angeles y cualquier otro registro del Condado
de Los Angeles que se considere necesario para determinar la propiedad de las parcelas y el calculo del Impuesto.

Una firma de contadores publicos titulados contratada por la Ciudad realizara una auditoria anual para asegurar la responsabilidad del
gasto adecuado de estos Productos de Impuesto de acuerdo con los objetivos mencionados en el presente documento.

7.64.100	Impuesto Sobre la Propiedad

Este impuesto especial sobre la parcela es un impuesto sobre la propiedad y los propietarios e Inquilinos calificados tendran el derecho
a los beneficios de la Ley de Asistencia del Impuesto sobre la propiedad para los Ciudadanos Mayores Gonsalves-Deukmejian-Petris (Cddigo
de Rentas e Impuestos de California Seccion 20501 y sig.) y la Ley de Exencion del Impuesto sobre la Propiedad para Ciudadanos Mayores y
Discapacitados (Codigo de Rentas e Impuestos de California Seccion 20581 y sig), del modo que establece la ley.

7.64.110	Reintegro de Impuestos, Sanciones, o Interes Pagados mas de una vez o Recaudado de Manera llegal o Equivocada

Cuando el importe del Impuesto, cualquier multa, o interes que se haya pagado mas de una vez, o se haya recaudado o recibido por la
Ciudad de manera equivocada o ilegal, segun este Capltulo, puede reintegrarse siempre que un reclamo verificado por escrito consecuentemente,
manifestando el motivo especlfico sobre el que se basa dicho reclamo, sea presentado ante el CFO en el plazo de (1) ano a partir de la fecha
de pago. Si el CFO aprueba el reclamo, los importes excedentes recaudados o pagados pueden ser reintegrados o pueden ser acreditados de
todos los importes en ese momento vencidos y a pagar de la persona de la que fueran recaudados o por quien fueran pagados, y el saldo puede
reintegrarse a dicha persona o a sus administradores o testamentarios.

7.64.120	Cldusula de Exception

Las disposiciones de este Capltulo no serAn aplicables a ninguna persona, o propiedad a las cuales la Ciudad no este autorizada a imponer
el Impuesto como se establece en este documento. Si se determina que alguna disposicion, oracion, cteusula, seccion o parte de este Capltulo
es inconstitucional, ilegal o invalids, dicha inconstitucionalidad, ilegalidad o invalidez solo afectaran tales disposiciones, oraciones, clausulas,
secciones o partes de este Capltulo y no afectaran o menoscabaran ninguna de las demas disposiciones, oraciones, clausulas, secciones o partes
de este Capltulo. Por el presente se declara que es la voluntad de los ciudadanos de la Ciudad que este Capltulo se hubiera adoptado si dicha
disposicion, oracion, clausula, seccion o parte inconstitucional, ilegal o invalids no se hubiera incluido en este documento.

7.64.130	Regulaciones

Por la presente el Concejo esta autorizado a promulgar dichas regulaciones cuando se considere necesario para implementar la disposicion
de este Capltulo, incluyendo la implementation de este Capltulo que se codifica por la presente en el Artlculo 7, Capltulo 7.64 y sig. del Codigo
Municipal de Santa Monica o como el Secretario Municipal lo designe.

7.64.140 Aumento del Llmite de las Apropiaciones

En conformidad con el Artlculo XIIIB de la ConstituciOn de California, el llmite de apropiaciones para la Ciudad de Santa Monica se aumenta por la presente
por el monto agregado autorizado para ser gravado por este Impuesto para el ano fiscal 2007-2008 y todos los anos de aqul en adelante.

SECClGN 2. Enmienda o Derogation. Por la presente, se autoriza al Concejo Municipal a adoptar disposiciones adicionales coherentes con la
finalidad de esta Ordenanza y para enmendar las disposiciones de esta Ordenanza sin la aprobacion de los votantes, siempre y cuando tales enmiendas no extiendan
el Impuesto a un contribuyente que no este sujeto al Impuesto, o no aumenten el monto del Impuesto mas alii del monto autorizado por esta Ordenanza. Cualquier
enmienda a esta Ordenanza que extienda el Impuesto a un contribuyente que bajo otras circunstancias no estaria sujeto aelo aumente el monto del Impuesto mis alii
de las tasas impositivas miximas y los factores de intensificacion autorizados por esta Ordenanza debe ser aprobada solamente por el voto de los electores calificados
o propietarios de la Ciudad.

SECClGN 3. Divisibilidad. Si alguna disposicion, seccion, pirrafo, oracion o palabra de esta Ordenanza, o la aplicacion de la misma sobre cualquier
persona o circunstancia, se interprets o declara invilida por algun tribunal de jurisdiccion competente, las disposiciones, secciones, pirrafos, oraciones o palabras
restantes de esta Ordenanza, y la aplicaciin sobre otras personas o circunstancias; no se veran afectadas por consiguiente y permanecerin en total fuerza y efecto y
con tal fin las disposiciones de esta Ordenanza son divisibles.

SECClGN 4. Fecha Efectiva. Esta Ordenanza se relaciona con el gravamen y la recaudacion del Impuesto por la Ciudad y ser£ completamente vSlida
y efectiva diez (10) dias despues de que la certificacion por el Concejo de la eleccion regrese indicando la aprobacion de la Ordenanza por dos tercios de los electores
que emiten su voto en esta eleccion.

APR0BAD0 EN CUANT0 A LA FORMA:

MARSHA JONES M0UTRIE, Abogada Municipal

Santa Monica / 45

PROPOSITION V

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF THE CLEAN BEACHES AND OCEAN PARCEL TAX ACT

This measure would amend the Municipal Code by adopting an ordinance entitled the “Clean Beaches and Ocean
Parcel Tax Act” to raise revenue solely for the purpose of implementing and financing a portion of the City’s Watershed
Management Plan (“Plan”). The Plan proposes urban runoff management and pollution prevention activities to protect
Santa Monica Bay, beaches and ocean resources and to satisfy federal, state and regional pollution discharge and water
quality requirements. The special tax would fund operation, administration, maintenance, improvement, environmental
restoration, upgrades and replacement of the existing and future storm drainage system. It would also fund on-site
stormwater management systems, storm drain conveyance system upgrades, and multipurpose capital improvement
projects for the purpose of reducing urban flooding and runoff pollution, and increasing water reuse and conservation,
recreational opportunities and open space, wildlife and marine habitat.

The measure would supplement a stormwater parcel fee adopted by the City in 1995, which has never been increased.
The current fee covers costs of the existing storm drainage system, but is insufficient to fund the Watershed Management
Plan.

The proposed ordinance establishes an annual parcel tax of $84.00 ($7.00 per month) for each parcel with one single
family detached residence. Rates for multi-family and commercial properties would vary depending upon parcel
size and a “runoff factor” representing the amount of average storm drainage from a parcel for a particular land use
category. The runoff factors and the formula to compute the parcel tax for multi-family, commercial and other property
types are specified in the Ordinance. The rates are subject to annual increases based on the annual percent increase
in a Consumer Price Index.

Tax proceeds would be deposited in a special fund that would be the subject of an annual report showing the amount
of the tax collected and expended and the status of any projects funded with tax proceeds. The City Council would
be required to establish a Citizens’ Oversight Committee to audit use of tax proceeds.

Public agencies would be exempt from this special tax; qualifying non-profit institutions could seek exemptions. The
City Council could also establish special exemption procedures and eligibility criteria for natural persons based on
income, age or disability.

It is estimated that the parcel tax rate would raise annual revenues of approximately $2,350,000 to cover stormwater
operations and maintenance costs as well as fund up to $40 million in capital projects over the next ten years. It is
anticipated that Santa Monica would be able to use its local funding to leverage access to additional capital funds from
federal, state and other funding sources for Plan implementation.

s/ Marsha Jones Moutrie, City Attorney

M

E

A

S

U

R

E

V

Santa Monica / 46

PROPOSITION V

ANALISIS IMPARCIAL DE LA LEY DE IMPUESTOS DE PARCELAS PARA PLAYAS Y OCEANOS LIMPIOS

Esta iniciativa enmendaria el Codigo Municipal al adoptar una ordenanza titulada “Ley de Impuestos de Parcelas
para Playas y Oceanos Limpios” para recaudar fondos unicamente con el fin de poner en practica y financiar una
parte del Plan de Control de Desague de la Ciudad (“Plan”). El Plan propone actividades de control de escorrentia
urbana y prevention de contaminacion para proteger la Bahia de Santa Monica, las playas y los recursos del oceano
y para cumplir con los requisitos federales, estatales y regionales de descarga de contaminacion y calidad del
agua. El impuesto especial financiaria la operation, administration, mantenimiento, mejora, renovation ambiental,
modernization y reemplazo del sistema actual y futuro de desague. Tambien financiaria sistemas de control locales
de aguas pluviales, modernizaciones del sistema de transpose de desagties pluviales y proyectos de mejora de
capital con multiples fines para reducir la inundation urbana y la contaminacion de escorrentias, y para aumentar la
reutilizacion y conservation de agua, las oportunidades de recreation y espacios abiertos, la vida silvestre y el habitat
marino.

La iniciativa complementaria un arancel de parcelas para aguas pluviales adoptado por la Ciudad en 1995, que nunca
ha aumentado. El arancel actual cubre los costos del sistema actual de drenaje de aguas pluviales, pero no es suficiente
como para financiar el Plan de Control de Desague.

La ordenanza propuesta establece un impuesto de parcelas anual de $84.00 ($7.00 por mes) por cada parcela con una
residencia independiente de familia unitaria. Los montos para propiedades de varias familias y propiedades comerciales
variarian segun el tamafio de la parcela y el “factor de desague” que representa la cantidad promedio de desague de
aguas pluviales de una parcela para una categoria determinada de uso de Terrenos. Los factores de escorrentia y la
formula para calcular el impuesto de parcelas para propiedades de varias familias, propiedades comerciales y otro tipo
de propiedades se detallan en la Ordenanza. Los montos estan supeditados a aumentos anuales segun el aumento
porcentual anual del Indice de Precios al Consumidor.

Las recaudaciones impositivas se depositarian en un fondo especial que seria objeto de un informe anual que indique
la cantidad de impuestos recaudados y gastados y la situation de todo proyecto financiado con recaudaciones
impositivas. El Concejo Municipal estaria obligado a crear un Comite de Supervision de Ciudadanos para controlar el
uso de dichas recaudaciones.

Los organismos publicos estarian exentos de este impuesto especial, y las instituciones sin fines de lucro que
califiquen podrian procurar exenciones. El Concejo Municipal tambien podria establecer procedimientos especiales
de exenciones y criterios de calificacion para las personas naturales segun sus ingresos, edad o discapacidad.

Se calcula que el monto del impuesto de parcelas aumentaria los ingresos anuales de alrededor de $2,350,000 para
cubrir costos de operaciones y mantenimiento de aguas pluviales, asi como financiar hasta $40 millones en proyectos
de capital durante los proximos diez anos. Se anticipa que Santa Monica podria usar sus fondos locales para lograr
acceso a otros fondos de capital de fuentes federales, estatales y otras fuentes de financiamiento para poner en
practica el Plan.

f/ Marsha Jones Moutrie, Abogada Municipal

V

Santa Monica / 47

2 HI < <0 3 CC 111

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION V

Santa Monica Bay is the face of our city and one of the major reasons why we love to live here. It is also the economic
engine for the community.

Sadly, rainstorms make Santa Monica’s beautiful beaches look like trash dumps. All too often, the beaches in front of
storm drains are teeming with fecal bacteria, posing a health risk to the millions of people who enjoy swimming and
surfing along our shore.

Although Santa Monica has been a national leader in the fight against ocean pollution, we have not done enough to
make our coast safe and healthy for beach visitors and sea life. There are new, stricter regulations adopted by the state
that make the clean up of beach and ocean pollution a legal requirement, not just our moral obligation.

Santa Monica has adopted a progressive, innovative plan to clean up our polluted beaches and bay, improve flood
control, augment our drinking water supply, and reuse treated runoff to irrigate the city’s parks and open spaces.
The Santa Monica Urban Watershed Management Plan was written and reviewed by some of the country’s foremost
experts in the field.

Measure V - The Clean Beaches and Ocean Parcel Tax - will provide the funds necessary to implement this innovative
plan in a timely manner, with expert oversight on the City’s allocation of funds.

Without voter approval of Measure V, Santa Monica will still have to provide the funds necessary to implement this
plan to comply with State clean water standards, but the money will have to come from general funds at the expense
of fundamental city services.

We urge you to VOTE “YES” ON MEASURE V, because a day at the beach should never make you sick.

s/ Richard Bloom, Santa Monica City Councilman/Vice-Chair, Santa Monica Bay Restoration Commission
s/ Mark Gold, Executive Director, Heal the Bay, Chair - Santa Monica Task Force on the Environment
s/ Fran Pavley, Assemblymember - 41st District
s/ Bobby Shriver, Mayor Pro Tempore

ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA PROPUESTA V

La Bahia de Santa Monica es el rostra de nuestra ciudad y uno de los motivos principales por los cuales nos encanta
vivir aqui. Tambien es el motor economico de la comunidad.

Lamentablemente, las tormentas hacen que las hermosas playas de Santa Monica parezcan basurales. Con mucha
frecuencia las playas frente a los colectores de aguas pluviales se Henan de bacterias fecales, lo cual representa un
riesgo para los millones de personas que disfrutan de nadar y practicar surf en nuestra costa.

A pesar de que Santa Monica ha sido un lider nacional en la lucha contra la contaminacion del oceano, no hemos
hecho lo suficiente para que nuestra costa sea segura y saludable para las personas que visitan la playa y para la vida
marina. Debido a que el estado adopto nuevas regulaciones m&s estrictas, la limpieza de la playa y de la contaminacion
del oceano ahora son una obligacion legal, y no simplemente nuestra obligacion moral.

Santa Monica ha adoptado un plan progresivo e innovador para limpiar la contaminacion de nuestras playas y bahia,
mejorar el control de inundaciones, aumentar el suministro de aqua potable y volver a usar la escorrentia tratada para
irrigar los parques y espacios abiertos de la ciudad. El Plan de Control de Desague Urbano de la ciudad fue escrito y
estudiado por algunos de los expertos en la materia mas importantes del pais.

La Propuesta V, el Impuesto de Pamelas para Playas y Oceanos Limpios, brindara los fondos necesarios para poner
en practica este plan innovador de forma oportuna, con supervisidn de expertos en la asignacion de fondos de la
Ciudad.

Sin la aprobacion de la Propuesta V por parte de los electores, Santa Mdnica de todos modos tendra que proporcionar
los fondos necesarios para poner en practica este plan y de ese modo cumplir con las normas estatales de aguas
limpias, pero el dinero debera provenir de los fondos generales a costa de servicios municipales fundamentales.

Le urgimos a que VOTE “A FAVOR” DE LA PROPUESTA V, porque un dia de playa nunca deberia enfermarle.

f/ Richard Bloom, Concejal y Vicepresidente de la Ciudad de Santa Monica,

Santa Monica Bay Restoration Commission
f/ Mark Gold, Director Ejecutivo, Heal the Bay, Presidente - Santa Monica Task Force on the Environment
f/ Fran Pavley, Miembro de la Asamblea del 41 st Distrito
f/ Bobby Shriver, Alcalde Interino

M

E

A

S

U

R

E

V

Santa Monica / 48

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION V

Don’t buy into the shameless fear mongering of Prop. V proponents. Threatening to cut essential services is a
transparent political ploy.

A scattershot, isolated approach to a clearly regional problem is counterproductive—our local homeless history has
demonstrated that. More and more, water experts stress the need for a “regional, integrated approach” to protecting
our Bay.

Yet Prop. V is the exact opposite.

The vast majority of our Bay’s pollution comes from outside the city. Prop. V addresses none of it.

NO RESIDENT INPUT went into this plan. Prop. V was back-roomed, given a phony environmental title, and hurriedly
rushed to the ballot.

Prop. V puts us on the hook for expensive pork and ill-conceived projects, and commits us to a plan so unfamiliar that
even those arguing in favor of Prop. V don’t know its correct name!

A $6 million fountain. Street narrowing. $67 million to accumulate property around the city. Payments to supporters.
That is Prop V.

Environmental experts recently estimated the regional cost of diverting dry-weather flows for drains entering the Santa
Monica Bay at about $3 per person, total. Yet maintenance and operations alone on this proposed plan are projected
to be $250+ a year, each.

In the ultimate insult to our strong resident environmentalism, Prop. V could actually fund the recently proposed
opening of our pier to commercial fishing and cruise ship operations!

Now that would make for a sickening day at the beach.

DON’T BE FOOLED.

Please, vote NO on Prop. V.

s/ June J. Coleman, Former City of Santa Monica Recreation and Parks Commissioner
s/ Don Gray, BaySmart.org

s/ Peter Tigler, Former City of Santa Monica Charter Review Commissioner
s/ Mathew L. Millen, Citizens Against Unfair Taxes
s/ William A. Bauer, Citizens Initiative to Preserve the Piers

M

E

A

S

U

R

E

V

Santa Monica / 49

REFUTACION AL ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA PROPUESTA V

No acepte la propaganda desvergonzada de temor que propagan los defensores de la Propuesta V. La amenaza de
suspender servicios esenciales es una estratagema transparente polltica.

Un enfoque disperso y aislado a un problema claramente regional es contraproducente, y nuestra historia de las
personas sin hogar de la zona lo ha demostrado. Cada vez mas, los expertos hidrologicos han enfatizado la necesidad
de un “enfoque regional e integrado” para la proteccion de nuestra Bahia.

Sin embargo, la Propuesta V es lo exactamente opuesto.

La amplia mayoria de contaminacion de nuestra Bahia proviene del exterior de nuestra ciudad. La Propuesta V
no se ocupa para nada de esto.

En este plan, no ingreso NINGUN APORTE DE LOS RESIDENTES. La Propuesta V fue mantenida en secreto, se le dio
un tltulo ambiental falso y se la introdujo de prisa en la boleta electoral.

La Propuesta V nos engancha a proyectos mal concebidos y con fines electorates y nos compromete con un plan tan
poco conocido que incluso aquellos que argumentan a favor de la Propuesta V no conocen su nombre correcto!

Una fuente de $6 millones. Estrechamiento de calles. $67 millones para acumular propiedades alrededor de la ciudad.
Pago a partidarios. Eso es la Propuesta V.

Hace poco tiempo, los expertos medioambientales han calculado el costo regional de desviar caudales de tiempo
seco para desaguaderos que entran en la Bahia de Santa Monica alrededor de $3 por persona. Sin embargo, se preve
que tan solo el mantenimiento y operaciones de este plan propuesto serlan de mas de $250 por ano cada uno.

jComo insulto maximo a la solida experiencia en cuestiones del medio ambiente de nuestros residentes, la Propuesta
V podrla en realidad financiar la apertura recientemente propuesta de nuestro muelle a pesca comercial y
operaciones de embarcaciones de crucero!

Eso si que contribuirla a un dla nauseabundo de playa.

NO SE DEJE ENGANAR.

Por favor, vote “NO” en la Propuesta V.

f/ June J. Coleman, Ex-Comisionado de Parques y Recreos de la Ciudad de Santa Monica
f/ Don Gray, BaySmart.org

f/ Peter Tigler, Ex-Comisionado del Comite para Revisar la Carta Constitucional
f/ Mathew L. Millen, Ciudadanos en Contra de Impuestos Injustos
f/ William A. Bauer, Iniciativa de los Ciudadanos para Conservar los Muelles

M

E

A

S

U

R

E

V

Santa Monica / 50

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION V
10 REASONS TO VOTE NO on PROP V

•	The Stormwater Management Plan was developed with NO RESIDENT INPUT, no scientific analysis and no way to
know if the bay will be clean enough to swim in after the money is spent.

•	It’s a classic “bait and switch”: Prop. V funds only “... a portion ..of the Plan; afterwards, we’ll be locked into
huge, planned increases in fees and charges.

•	Once this $200+ million dollar development monster is unleashed, we’ll still have to maintain it — forever — with
additional taxes and fees.

•	$6 million of it will be paying for an artificial “creek” at City Hall.

•	$-Millions from the fund will go to narrowed streets and curb extensions — more traffic calming!

•	$-Millions for Virginia Ave. Park, newly redesigned and just reopened, now slated for redesign yet again!

•	The vast majority of stormwater that flows into the bay is polluted from areas outside of Santa Monica.

•	The most environmentally responsible Southland residents — Santa Monica residents — will be the ones paying
for all of it!

•	The plan offers no estimates of success — and no penalties for failure!

•	Money spent on Prop. V won’t be available for real bay clean-up efforts.

Look past Prop. V’s phony title and you’ll see a measure that allows the politicians and city staff to spend virtually at
will, on projects that only feign to be environmental.

Santa Monica is using it’s green reputation to sucker local voters. It’s a Los Angeles AREA issue that demands
REGIONAL solutions and REGIONAL revenues to manage a real clean-up effort.

We can’t waste our precious financial resources and energies on feel-good environmentalism.

Everyone wants a cleaner Bay. Let’s come up with a real plan where the polluters pay, not those working hardest to
clean it up!

Vote NO on Prop. V.

Visit BaySmart.org

s/ June J. Coleman, Former City of Santa Monica Recreation and Parks Commissioner
s/ Don Gray, BaySmart.org

s/ Peter Tigler, Former City of Santa Monica Charter Review Commissioner
s/ Mathew L. Millen, Citizens Against Unfair Taxes
s/ William A. Bauer, Citizens Initiative to Preserve the Piers

M

E

A

S

U

R

E

V

Santa Monica / 51

ARGUMENTO EN CONTRA DE LA PROPUESTA V
10 RAZONES PARA VOTAR NO en la PROPUESTA V

•	El Plan de Control de Aguas Pluviales se elaboro SIN APORTES DE LOS RESIDENTES, sin analisis cientifico
y sin modo de saber si la bahia estara lo suficientemente limpia como para nadar despues de que se gaste el
dinero.

•	Es una clasica “atraccion y traicion”: La Propuesta V solo financia una parte...” del Plan; y luego estaremos
estancados en enormes aumentos programados de tarifas y recargos.

•	Una vez que se desate este monstruo de construccion de mas de $200 millones, todavia tendremos que
mantenerlo — para siempre — con impuestos y aranceles adicionales.

•	De esa suma, $6 millones pagaran un “arroyo” artificial en el Ayuntamiento.

•	$ Millones del fondo se usaran para ampliar calles y aceras angostas — jmas trafico para aplacar!

•	$ Se usaran millones para Virginia Ave. Park, recientemente redisenado e inaugurado, ahora programado para
otro rediseno mas!

•	La mayor parte de las aguas pluviales que fluyen en la bahia aportan una contaminacion que proviene de areas
externas a Santa Monica.

•	Los residentes surenos con mayor responsabilidad ambiental — los residentes de Santa Monica — seran los que
pagaran todo ello!

•	El plan no ofrece calculos de exito — ni sanciones para el fracaso!

•	El dinero que se gaste en la Propuesta V no estara disponible para las verdaderas labores de limpieza de la
bahia.

Lea mas alia del titulo engahoso de la Propuesta V y vera una iniciativa que permite que los politicos y el personal
municipal gasten a voluntad, en proyectos que solo aparentan ser ambientales.

Santa Monica esta usando su reputacion de responsabilidad ecologica para engahar facilmente a (os electores
locales. Es un tema del AREA de Los Angeles que exige soluciones REGIONALES e ingresos REGIONALES para
administrar un verdadero esfuerzo de limpieza.

No podemos desperdiciar nuestros valiosos recursos financieros y energia en ambientalismo que tranquiliza la
conciencia pero no da resultado.

Todos quieren una Bahia limpia. jElaboremos un plan verdadero en el que paguen los que contaminan, no los que
trabajan mas arduamente para limpiarla!

Vote NO en la Propuesta V.

Visite BaySmart.org

f/ June J. Coleman, Ex-Comisionado de Parques y Recreos de la Ciudad de Santa Monica
f/ Don Gray, BaySmart.org

f/ Peter Tigler, Ex-Comisionado del Comite para Revisar la Carta Constitucional
f/ Mathew L. Millen, Ciudadanos en Contra de Impuestos Injustos
f/ William A. Bauer, Iniciativa de los Ciudadanos para Conservar los Muelles

M

E

A

S

U

R

E

V

Santa Monica / 52

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION V

The argument against Proposition V contains numerous errors. Prop V does not fund our entire watershed plan. It
only funds cost-effective projects that achieve specific water quality and flood prevention benefits. To prevent waste,
a community technical oversight committee will review proposals.

The management plan was developed by regional and local experts, including our Santa Monica Task Force on the
Environment. It was publicly reviewed twice by the City Council. If there is overspending, you know where to find
those in charge!

Another error is the statement that most of Santa Monica Bay’s pollution comes from Los Angeles. At many beach
locations, like Santa Monica Pier, entire watersheds are within Santa Monica and are among the most polluted in the
entire State.

Santa Monica would never have provided leadership in cleaning the Bay, protecting the environment, and moving
towards a sustainable city if we had waited for other cities to agree.

And remember: the City of Los Angeles is already spending $500 million from an overwhelmingly approved (76%)
voter initiative to clean up L.A.’s most polluted waters. We want to join L.A. in cleaning up the Bay, protecting public
health and marine life, and complying with new water quality standards.

Clean water is a right, not a luxury. It is also a legal requirement under the Federal Clean Water Act. If this initiative
doesn’t pass, we will be legally obligated to spend precious general fund dollars, diverting them from other critical
projects.

Support a healthy Bay and a clean environment! Vote YES on Proposition V.

s/ Fran Pavley
s/ Mark Gold

s/ Richard Bloom, Councilmember, City of Santa Monica
s/ Bobby Shriver

REFUTACION AL ARGUMENTO EN CONTRA DE LA PROPUESTA V

El argumento en contra de la Propuesta V contiene errores numerosos. La Propuesta V no financia todo nuestro plan
de cuenca hidrografica. Solo financia proyectos eficaces en funcion de los costos que alcanzan beneficios espedficos
de calidad del agua y prevencion de inundaciones. Para evitar desperdicios, un comite comunitario de supervision
tecnica examinara propuestas.

El plan administrative fue creado por expertos locales y regionales, incluyendo nuestro Grupo de Estudio del Medio
Ambiente de Santa Monica. El Consejo Municipal lo examino publicamente dos veces. Si existen gastos excesivos,
justed sabe donde encontrar las personas a cargo!

Otro error es la afirmacion de que la mayorfa de la contaminacion de la Bahia de Santa Monica proviene de Los
Angeles. En muchos de los lugares de playa, como el Muelle de Santa Monica, cuencas hidrograficas enteras estan
dentro de Santa Monica y estan entre las mas contaminadas de todo el Estado.

Santa Monica no habrfa proporcionado jamas el liderazgo para la limpieza de la Bahia, proteccion del medio ambiente
y movilizacion hacia una ciudad sostenible si hubieramos esperado que las demas ciudades estuvieran de acuerdo.

Y recuerde: la Ciudad de Los Angeles esta gastando ya $500 millones de una iniciativa de los electores aprobada por
una mayorla aplastante (76%) para limpiar las aguas mas contaminadas de Los Angeles. Deseamos unirnos a Los
Angeles para limpiar la Bahia, proteger la salud publica y la vida marina y cumplir con las nuevas normas de calidad
de agua.

El agua limpia es un derecho, no un lujo. Es ademas un requisite legal bajo la Ley Federal de Agua Limpia. Si no se
aprueba esta iniciativa, nos veremos legalmente obligados a gastar preciosos dolares del fondo general, desviandolos
de otros proyectos de vital importancia.

jApoye una Bahia sana y un medio ambiente limpio! Vote SI en la Propuesta V.

f/ Fran Pavley
f/ Mark Gold

f/ Richard Bloom, Concejal, Ciudad de Santa Monica
f/ Bobby Shriver

M

E

A

S

u

R

E

V

Santa Monica / 53