Measure A: Sales Tax. Countv of Santa Clara

Shall a one-half cent sales tax be enacted, for 30 years, for general county purposes, such as:

•	The County hospital and clinics;

•	Trauma and emergency services;

•	Affordable homes for families and seniors;

•	Health insurance for uninsured children;

•	Prevention programs for at-risk youth, families and seniors;

•	Transportation improvements approved in city and countywide transportation plans;

•	Services for abused and neglected children;

with a Citizens Oversight Committee ensuring fiscal accountability by reviewing the Annual
Audit?

Impartial Analysis from Countv Counsel

Measure A would authorize a one-half cent sales tax within the County of Santa Clara. The sales
tax would be a general tax. California Government Code section 53721 defines a general tax as
one "imposed for general governmental purposes." If approved by a majority of the voters, the
sales tax will become effective on October 1, 2006.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285 authorizes the County Board of Supervisors
to levy a transactions and use (i.e., "sales") tax for general purposes at certain rates, including a .
50 (i.e., V2 cent) rate, if the tax is approved by a majority of the voters in an election on that issue.
Measure A states that the one-half cent sales tax is to be used "for general county purposes." This
means that the tax proceeds may be used by the County for any legal governmental purpose
without restriction. The County is not in any way legally bound to use the tax monies for any
special purpose or for any particular project or projects.

The measure contains two mandatory restrictions. First, a "Citizens' Oversight Committee" will
be created to review the Annual Audit. The County will be legally obligated to cooperate with the
Committee in its review of the Audit. The Committee has no authority to direct or control the use
of the tax funds by the County.

Second, the tax must expire after 30 years. Voters approving the measure are expressly approving
the imposition of the tax for a period commencing October 1, 2006 and terminating September
30, 2036. Thereafter, the authority to collect the tax ceases by operation of law.

These two "mandatory restrictions" do not in any way legally restrict the scope of the County's
right to use the tax proceeds for "general county purposes." They limit the duration of the
collection of the tax, and establish a "Citizens' Oversight Committee" to review Annual Audits.
By: /s/ Ann Miller Ravel
County Counsel

Arguments For Measure A

Measure A will generate critically-needed local funds for high-priority local needs like health
care, transportation, trauma and emergency services. By law, these funds cannot be taken away
by the state or federal government. Neighborhood and community leaders support Measure A
because of the following facts:

Tragically, there are 22,000 reported incidents of Child Abuse or Neglect annually in Santa Clara

County, each requiring thorough investigation and compassionate care

That's why County Schools Superintendent Colleen Wilcox endorses Measure A.

The County Hospital, providing health care, trauma and emergency services for 200,000
residents annually, needs $750 million in Earthquake Safety upgrades.

That's why Santa Clara County Firefighters President Art Marshall supports Measure A.

Local employers and workers need a fast, efficient, regional transit system; including BART,
CalTrain, Light Rail and transit service for seniors and the disabled.

That's why Synopsys CEO Aart de Geus supports Measure A.

Over 1,000 Santa Clara County children are on waiting lists for basic healthcare insurance, due
to inadequate funding.

That's why Lucile Packard Children's Hospital CEO Christopher Dawes supports Measure A.
Streets county wide are in dire need of pothole repair and other improvements. Our eight County
expressways + Almaden, Capitol, Central, Foothill, Lawrence, Montague, Oregon and San
Tomas need capacity upgrades and signal timing to serve the 850,000 commuters who use them
daily.

That's why Metropolitan Transportation Commissioner and Past Chair Jim Beall supports
Measure A.

Measure A ensures fiscal accountability by requiring Annual Independent Audits available and
open to the public. An Independent Citizens Oversight Committee will monitor spending to
ensure every dollar is spent efficiently and without waste.

That's why Father Paul Locatelli, CPA and President of Santa Clara University supports Measure
A.

Join hundreds of environmental, faith, neighborhood, business, labor and community leaders in
supporting Measure A. To learn more, or volunteer, visit our web site at http://
www.MeasureA.org.

/s/ Michael M. Honda
Congressman, 15th District
/s/ Laurie Smith
Sherrif, Santa Clara County
/s/ Sally E. Pyle

Chair, Leagues of Women Voters of Santa Clara County
/s/ Joe Coto

State Assemblyman, 23rd Assembly District, and former School Superintendent
/s/ Rod Diridon, Sr.

Chair, League of Conservation Voters of Santa Clara County
Rebuttal to Arguments For

There's no guarantee how this tax will be spent. It could go to anything.

Proponents list seven distinct VTA projects, including light rail.

Using the county's own revenue forecasts, those projects alone would need 94% of this tax -
before cost overruns. That leaves nothing for health care or social services.

These are the same projects they promised us in 2000.

The 2000 ballot argument promised "Over $2 billion ... for potholes, signal synchronization, lane
widenings, and highway safety." It claimed "[2000] Measure A pays operating costs ... for
decades without additional taxes."

The Santa Clara County Civil Grand Jury called it "over-promising of programs to voters" -
deliberately making false promises in order to pass a tax.

The report further states that negative information was withheld until after the election.

For this tax,

The oversight committee won't have the legal power to block a single wasteful project.

The county deficit will be $32 million in 2010. An $80 million quarter cent tax would be plenty.
The county allows many employees to retire at 50, but still keep 90% of their pay. That money
could have been spent on services, but wasn't.

A Metropolitan Transportation Commission audit found "VTA's cost efficiency declined in
nearly every year of the audit period.... (cost effectiveness) declined an average of 11 percent
annually."

VTA could raise as much money as a half percent tax just by improving efficiency to the national
average.

Vote NO on this back room deal. There's time for a quarter percent in November.
http://www.VoteNoOn A .us
/s/ Patrick Moore

Member 1996 Measure B Citizen's Watchdog Committee
/s/ Eugene Bradley

Founder, Santa Clara VTA Riders Union
/s/ Mark Brodsky

Small business owner, Mayor of Monte Sereno
/s/ Greg Perry

Vice Mayor, Mountain View
Arguments Against Measure A

They want to raise your taxes, and lower their own. Important backers of this measure are
pushing a bill (SB 1291 - Alquist) through the California legislature to exempt their purchases
from the 6% State portion of the sales tax. Check it out at http://www.votenoon A .us.

Raising the sales tax is bad for families.

Sales taxes unfairly burden low income families the most.

The average family's share is over $14,000.

Santa Clara County will tie for the highest tax rate in California.

Over 30 years, this tax will cost 8.4 billion dollars.

High taxes make it more expensive for businesses to expand, driving jobs away.

This tax is not about county services.

Last year, county revenues were $2.8 billion, 6.8% higher than the previous year.

County tax revenues are nearly four times what they were a decade ago.

The original plan was for a quarter percent tax, more than enough to cover total projected
deficits.

So why a half percent?

Put simply, this tax is about a back room deal to funnel your tax dollars to the VTA.

The sales tax increase was requested by SVLG, the same group seeking a sales tax exemption.
Just two days after the county voted for this tax, the VTA created a subcommittee to decide how
to spend the money.

VTA receives 400 million tax dollars every year, including a full one percent sales tax.

VTA is tremendously inefficient. They spend more per bus than nearly every other transit agency
in the nation, ranking 362 out of 368. LA, Chicago, New York, San Mateo, and San Francisco all
spend less than the VTA.

Our tax money should not go to an agency this irresponsible. If the county needs the money, we
can vote on a quarter percent tax in November. Vote no on this back room deal.

/s/ David Casas

Council Member, City of Los Altos & Former VTA Board Member
/s/ Patrick Moore

Member, 1996 Measure B Citizen's Watchdog Committee
/s/ Greg Perry

Member, VTA board of Directors
/s/ Douglas A. McNea

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association
/s/ Kevin Takenaga

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
Rebuttal to Arguments Against

As Measure A supporters, we've met with thousands of citizens + You've told us we need local
funds for local priorities that cannot be taken away by the State.

You've also shared your top priorities for Measure A funds:

Quality Health Care;

Access to our County Hospital and Clinics;

Transportation improvements like BART and CalTrain, pothole repairs and County Expressway
upgrades;

Health Insurance for uninsured kids;

Emergency Preparedness and Trauma Services;

Compassionate care for abused and neglected children;

Please look closely at the Supporters of Measure A. Many of our organizations led successful
efforts to build Highway 85, schools, parks, libraries and roads.

Measure A ensures:

Accountability through Independent Annual Audits and a Citizens Oversight Committee.

Local funds for first responders - firefighters, doctors and nurses - for emergencies ranging from
earthquakes and floods to pandemics like the Bird Flu.

Fairness: Less fortunate families can receive vital medical services, and sales taxes are not paid
on essential expenses like housing, food, utilities, healthcare, childcare and transit.

Now, please look carefully at the organizations opposing Measure A.

Several fought against recent measures to build schools, roads, parks, libraries, BART and
CalTrain. If they had been successful, many vital transportation and school construction projects
wouldn't exist.

Measure A's opponents have been against practically everything. They cannot attack Measure A's
important priorities, so they take the low road, leveling baseless charges of "backroom deals."
Measure A means local funds for local priorities. Funds the state and federal government cannot
take away.

Vote YES on Measure A.

/s/ Michael M. Honda

Congressman, 15th District

/s/ Arthur R. Marshall

President, Santa Clara County Firefighters

/s/ Susan Hammer

Former Mayor of San Jose

/s/ Sally E. Pyle

Chair, Leagues of Women Voters of Santa Clara County
/s/ Anna G. Eshoo
Congresswoman, 14th District

Full Text of Measure A