

<0

E

(/>

o

o

<

s

CL

O

</)

<

5

2

cc

o

LU

CC

o

I

W

3

</>

c

o

+4

o

Q)

LU

>

4-«

c

3

O

o

o

a>

4-*

c











UNTY OF

CONSOLIDATED GUBERNATORIAL GENERAL ELECTION

Tuesday, November 7,2006

ELECCION GENERAL DE GOVERNADOR CONSOLIDADA
MARTES 7 DE NOVIEMBRE, 2006



0

& Voter Information Pamphlet

s)D®Ggi !M]©(o]®0©

& Folleto de Informacion para el Elector

NOTICE - AVISO

NEW PRECINCT CONSOLIDATIONS
YOUR POLLING PLACE MAY HAVE CHANGED

NUEVA C0NS0LIDACI0N DE PRECINT0S
SU LUGAR DE V0TACI0N PUEDE
HABER CAMBIAD0

See back cover for
polling place location
Para saber cual es su lugar de
^ votacion vea la cubierta trasera

POLLS ARE OPEN FROM 7 A.M.TO 8 P.M.

KEEP THIS PAMPHLET FOR ASSISTANCE ON ELECTION DAY

YOU MAY VOTE BY MAIL:

ABSENT VOTER BALLOT APPLICATION ON BACK COVER

LAS ELECCIONES EMPIEZAN A LAS 7 A.M. YTERMINAN A LAS 8 P.M.
GUARDE ESTE FOLLETO EL CUAL LE AYUDARA EL DIA DE LAS ELECCIONES

USTED PUEDE VOTAR POR CORREO:

LA SOLICITUD DE ELECTOR AUSENTE SE ENCUENTRA EN LA CUBIERTA TRASERA



M'

fm







Q/\	GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION, REGULATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars state/local governments from condemning

iJU	or damaging private property to promote other private projects, uses. Limits government’s authority to adopt certain land use, housing, consumer, environmental, workplace

laws/regulations. Fiscal Impact: Increased annual government costs to pay property owners for losses to their property associated with new laws and rules, and for property
acquisitions. These costs are unknown, but potentially significant on a statewide basis.

Q/\ ADQUISICION, REGULACION GUBERNAMENTAL DE LA PROPIEDAD PRIVADA. INICIATIVA PARA ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL. Prohibe que los gobiernos
17 U estatales/locales expropien o dafien la propiedad privada para promover otros proyectos o usos privados. Limita la autoridad del gobiemo para adoptar determinadas
leyes/regulaciones sobre el uso de la tierra, la vivienda, el consumidor, el medio ambiente, el lugar de trabajo. Impacto fiscal: Mayores costos anuales del gobierno para
pagar a los propietarios las perdidas de su propiedad asociadas con leyes y ordenes nuevas y las adquisiciones de propiedad. Se desconocen estos costos, pero son potencialmente
significativos a nivel estatal.

CITY/CIUDAD		
CITY OF DEL REY OAKS, MEASURE D CIUDAD DE DEL REY OAKS, INICIATIVA DE LEY D		
	r> Shall a sales tax rate of one percent (1%), for a period of not more than five (5) years, unless terminated sooner by the City Council, be adopted by the City of Del Rey Oaks, the LJ proceeds of said tax to be utilized for general governmental purposes?  p> i,Ha el Municipio de Del Rey Oaks de adoptar un impuesto sobre la venta del uno por ciento (1%), durante un periodo de no mas de cinco (5) anos a menos que el Concejo u Municipal lo diera antes por terminado, cuyos ingresos serian utilizados para propositos generales del gobierno?	
		YES/SI ^ ^
		NO/NO ^i

YES/SI	m

NO/NO	m

	JL
	~ir
	

CA27-4-504

B - Card 2 of 2

VOTE BOTH SIDES (OVER)

VOTE EN LOS DOS LADOS (VOLTEAR)

504

BOLETA MODELO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE D
ORDINANCE NO.____________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DEL REY OAKS
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX (A SALES TAX) TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Del Rey Oaks
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The city of Del Rey Oaks hereinafter
shall be called “City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated
territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of
this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. EXPIRATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by
this ordinance shall expire and sunset ten (10) years from the operative
date of this ordinance or at any sooner date as determined by subsequent
ordinance of the City.

Section 4. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted
in order to accomplish those purposes:

A. To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with
the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division
2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of
the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with
the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered
and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State
Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can
be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 5. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City
shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State
Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the
first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 6. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 1 % of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 7. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-
state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall

be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 8. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storai
use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchas
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storac
use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 1% of the sales pri
of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when su
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to whi
delivery is made.

Section 9. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except ,
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they a
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Reveni
and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Sectk
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopts
and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 10. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AN
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 <
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as th
taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. Howeve
the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of thi
State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board o
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action t(
be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereo
rather than by or against the State Boara of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that
code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B. The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 11. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued
to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 12. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions
tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the
State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1. Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel
or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED “AS SUBMITTED” AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

D-1

property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or
any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which
is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by
delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer
to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For tne purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty
of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that
address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller
is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not
to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance,
the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal
property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been
subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and
use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased
by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States,
or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property
for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a
continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior
to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of
any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the

order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also
include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax
paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Section 13. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective
date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and
all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance.

Section 14. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of
the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance,
or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 15. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 16. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
immediately.

Section 17. CODIFICATION. Upon adoption of this ordinance pursuant to
the voter approval referenced in Section 3, the City Clerk, in consultation with
the City Attorney, is hereby authorized and directed to codify this ordinance
in the Del Rey Oaks Municipal Code.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Del Rey Oaks,
State of California, on September_, 2006, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

Joseph P. Russell Mayor
ATTEST:

Ronald J. Langford City Clerk

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED “AS SUBMITTED” AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

D-2



IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF DEL REY OAKS BY CITY ATTORNEY
BALLOT MEASURE D CONCERNING THE ADOPTION OF A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

City of Del Rey Oaks Ballot Measure D presents to the electors of the
City of Del Rey Oaks the question whether to adopt and impose, for
a period of not to exceed five years, a one percent (1%) transactions
and use tax, commonly known as sales tax. The five year period would
commence on the first day of the first month in which the tax is collected.
The measure will pass if a majority of those qualified electors casting a
vote on the measure vote "yes.”

If Measure D passes, the proceeds of the tax will be utilized by the City
of Del Rey Oaks for general governmental purposes.

Dated: August 22, 2006

s/Robert R. Wellington

City Attorney

City of Del Rey Oaks

Note: the above statement is an impartial analysis of MEASURE D.
If you want a copy of the measure, please call the Monterey County
Elections Department at (831) 796-1499 to request that a copy be
mailed to you at no cost.

ANALISIS IMPARCIAL REDACTADO POR EL ABOGADO
MUNICIPAL DE LA INICIATIVA DE LEY “D” DE
DEL REY OAKS TOCANTE A LA ADOPCION DE
UN GRAVAMEN DE TRANSACCIONES Y USO

La iniciativa de ley "D” del Municipio de Del Rey Oaks presents
electorado del Municipio de Del Rey Oaks el asunto de la adopcioi
imposition, durante un periodo que no excederi'a cinco anos, de
gravamen de transacciones y uso del uno por ciento (1%), gravan
comunmente denominado impuesto a la venta. El periodo de cir
anos comenzaria el primer dia del primer mes en que se recaudars
impuesto. La iniciativa seria aprobada si una mayoria de los electo
habilitados que votaran en las elecciones convocadas al respecto voti
“si".

De ser aprobada la iniciativa de ley "D”, los ingresos recaudados
virtud de la misma serian utilizados por el Municipio de Del Rey Os
para propositos generales del gobierno.

Fechado: 22 de agosto, 2006.

f/Robert Wellington
Abogado Municipal
Municipio de Del Rey Oaks

Nota: la declaration precedente constituye un analisis imparci
de la INICIATIVA DE LEY “D”. SI desea una copia de la iniciati1
de ley, favor de comunicarse con el Departamento de Elecciom
del Condado de Monterey al (831) 796-1499 para solicitar que se
envie una copia sin costo alguno.

_____________________________________________________________________________

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED “AS SUBMITTED” AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING._______J

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

The City of Del Rey Oaks has recently and unexpectedly lost two
significant revenue sources totalling $170,000 annually. They are (1)
the unanticipated closure of Ralph’s Supermarket in the approximate
amount of $80,000 annually, and (2) the contract for police services to
the Monterey Peninsula Airport District in the amount of $90,000 annually.
The current public safety tax of $337,000 annually will expire in July of
2007.

The City needs to be proactive and attempt to recover some of the lost
revenue. The proposed sales tax increase in the amount of 1% or one
cent on the dollar would raise about $130,000 yearly to partially cover the
loss of revenue. The tax would end or sunset in five years. It would not
take effect until the current public safety tax expires. The measure allows
the City to abolish the tax prior to “sunsetting” of the measure.

Del Rey Oaks merchants have been contacted regarding this proposed
sales tax increase and are not opposed to it. This increase in the sales
tax would not be a burden on our citizens or merchants. A large proportion
of the taxable purchases will be made by non-residents. Most food items
are not subject to sales tax.

With the end of the public safety tax, homeowners would actually be
paying significantly less, even with an increase in the sales tax. A
homeowner now paying $300/yr under the public safety tax would have
to purchase $30,000 in taxable goods to equal the amount currently
being paid under the public safety tax. We ask you to pass this small
tax increase to tide us over until replacement revenues come on line.
Keep in mind that Del Rey Oaks does not have a utilities tax as do our
neighboring cities.

Please VOTE YES on Measure D.

si Joseph P. Russell, Mayor
si Jerry Edelen, Vice Mayor
si Kristin A. Clark, Council Member
si Dennis Allion, Council Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA INICIATIVA DE LEY “D”

El Municipio de Del Rey Oaks ha perdido reciente e inesperadamente
dos importantes fuentes de ingresos que ascienden a $170,000 anuales.
Estas perdidas son (1) el inesperado cierre de “Ralph's Supermarket”
que ascendia a un monto anual aproximado de $80,000, y (2) el contrato
para servicios policiales en el “Distrito del Aeropuerto de la Peninsula de
Monterey” en una cantidad de $90,000 anuales..El actual impuesto para
la seguridad publica de $337,000 anuales expirara en julio del 2007.

El Municipio tiene que anticipar y abordar este problema, y tratar de
recobrar una porcion de los ingresos perdidos. El propuesto aumento de
1% del impuesto a la venta, o de un centavo por dolar recaudaria unos
$130,000 anuales, lo que permitiria cubrir parcialmente la perdida de
ingresos. El impuesto expiraria o caducaria en cinco anos. No entraria
en vigor hasta que expirara el actual impuesto para la seguridad publica.
La iniciativa permite al Municipio abolir el impuesto con anterioridad a la
fecha de expiracion de la iniciativa.

Se ha informado a los comerciantes de Del Rey Oaks sobre este
propuesto incremento del impuesto a la venta, y ellos no se oponen
al mismo. Este aumento del impuesto a la venta no seria oneroso
para nuestros ciudadanos y comerciantes. Una gran porcion de las
adquisiciones sujetas a impuesto seria efectuada por individuos que
no son residentes. La mayoria de los comestibles no estan sujetos al
impuesto sobre las ventas.

Con la expiracion del impuesto para la seguridad publica, los propietarios
residenciales pagaran mucho menos, incluso con el aumento del impuesto
a la venta. Un propietario residencial que pague ahora $300 anuales
conforme al impuesto para la seguridad publica, tendria que comprar
$30,000 en bienes gravables para pagar una cantidad equivalente a lo
que ahora paga bajo el impuesto para la seguridad publica. Pedimos a
la ciudadania que apruebe este pequeno aumento para que podamos
solventar la situation hasta que se reemplace las fuentes de ingreso. Es
importante tener en cuenta que Del Rey Oaks no cuenta con un impuesto
sobre los servicios publicos como lo tienen los municipios vecinos.

Por favor VOTE SI a la iniciativa de ley “D”.

fI Joseph P. Russell, Alcalde

fI Jerry Edelen, Vicealcalde

f/ Kristin A. Clark, Concejal

f/ Dennis Allion, Concejal

NO SE PRESENTO ARGUMENTO ALGUNO
EN CONTRA DE ESTA INICIATIVA DE LEY

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED “AS SUBMITTED” AND
PROOFED BYTHE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.