VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF WATSONVILLE

In order to maintain critical City services such as police,

L parks, fire and community services, neighborhood crime
prevention, building code enforcement, gang prevention
programs, road and pothole repair and other services
provided by the City of Watsonville, shall the sales tax in
Watsonville be increased by one quarter of one percent (0.25%)
to be effective if the voters also cap the City’s retirement tax
collection rate at 7.7 cents per $100.00 of assessed value?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE L
CITY OF WATSONVILLE

ORDINANCE NO. (CM)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
WATSONVILLE ADDING A NEW ARTICLE 10 TO CHAPTER 6
(TAXATION) OF TITLE 3 (FINANCE) OF THE WATSONVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE
(SALES) TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE CALIFORNIA STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WATSONVILLE,
CALIFORNIA, DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. ENACTMENT.

Article 10 Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance is hereby added to Chapter 6 (Tax-
ation) of Title 3 (Finance) of the Watsonville Municipal Code to read as follows:

Article 10. Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance

Sec. 3-6.1001 Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the City of Watsonville Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance. The City of Watsonville hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordi-
nance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City of Watsonville.

Sec. 3-6.1002 Operative date.

“Operative Date” shall mean the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

Sec. 3-6.1003 Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and di-
rects that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish these
purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 both in Di-
vision 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code which authorizes the City to adopt this
tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provi-
sions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California in-
sofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and pro-
vides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and col-
lecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in
a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provi-

sions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost
of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of
this ordinance.

Sec. 3-6.1004 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equaliza-
tion to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have con-
tracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nev-
ertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Sec. 3-6.1005 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby im-
posed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the City
at the rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.

Sec. 3-6.1006 Place of sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for de-
livery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall in-
clude delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. If a retailer has no perma-
nent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the
place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined un-
der rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

Sec. 3-6.1007 Use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the op-
erative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory
at the rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25 %) of the sales price of the property.
The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Sec. 3-6.1008 Adoption of provisions of State law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are in-
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this or-
dinance as though fully set forth herein.

Sec. 3-6.1009 Limitations on adoption of State law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

(1)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Trea-
surer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitu-
tion would be to:

Santa Cruz County

44-19

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

(i)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be ex-
empt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain sub-
ject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, or;

(ii)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use, or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the State under
the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Sec. 3-6.1010 Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

Sec. 3-6.1011 Exemptions and exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside
the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

(i)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by
a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such ad-
dress is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

(ii)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such prop-
erty, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a con-
tract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or
not such right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such air-
craft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible per-
sonal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such prop-
erty for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangi-
ble personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contractor
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the un-
conditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or partici-
pates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any
of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commenc-
ing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compli-
ance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who reg-
isters or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district impos-
ing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property
the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Sec.3-6.1012 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Divi-
sion 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of
tax imposed by this ordinance.

Sec. 3-6.1013 Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against
any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordi-
nance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or
any amount of tax required to be collected.

Sec. 3-6.1014 Severability.

Santa Cruz County

44-20

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circum-
stance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Sec. 3-6.1015 Effective date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use
tax and shall take effect immediately.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE L

If adopted, this Measure would increase the sales tax in Watsonville by one quarter
of one percent (% %). The sales tax is sometimes referred to as “transactions and
use tax”. The present sales tax rate in Watsonville is eight percent (8%). This Mea-
sure would increase the rate to eight and one quarter percent (8.25%). The pro-
posed increase would be imposed just like the present tax; upon the sale of
tangible personal property sold at retail within the City limits and upon the storage,
use, or other consumption of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer in the City limits.

All revenue from the proposed tax would go into the City’s General Fund and would
therefore be used by the City to pay for general City operations and services in-
cluding police, fire, parks, building code enforcement and street repair and im-
provements. This Measure is therefore a “general purpose tax” rather than a
“special purpose tax” and requires a simple majority vote.

This Measure would be valid and effective if and only if the voters also approve
Measure M which amends Subdivision (b) of the City Charter, capping the City re-
tirement tax. This sales tax would replace part of the revenue lost by capping the
retirement tax.

s/Alan J. Smith
City Attorney

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT BY CITY FISCAL OFFICER
MEASURE L

Measure L and Measure M are co-dependent. That is, both measures must be ap-
proved by the voters for either to take effect. Measure L would increase the sales
tax rate in the City of Watsonville by %%, increasing City revenues by approxi-
mately $1.1 million. Measure M would reduce the property tax for the City employ-
ees’ retirement program by 30% and place a new cap of 7.7 cents per $100 of
assessed value on the rate which could be charged. Measure M would decrease
City revenues by approximately $1.1 million.

Because Measure L and Measure M would oppositely impact cost flow within the
same fiscal year, projections show that the difference between the addition of in-
creased sales tax collections and the reductions in retirement tax collections would
be negligible. Therefore, if Measure L and Measure M are approved by the voters
the impact on the City budget would be neutral.

The City of Watsonville currently has the lowest municipal sales tax rate in Santa
Cruz County at 8%, or 8 cents on every dollar paid for a taxable item. Of this
amount, the City of Watsonville receives 1%, or 1 cent on every dollar. These funds
are used to pay for general City services such as police, parks, fire, neighborhood
crime and gang prevention, community services, road and pothole repair and
building code enforcement.

If voters approve Measure L, it would increase the total sales tax rate to 8%%, and
would raise the local portion the City receives to 1 %%. California cities are allowed
to adopt increased rates above the 1% base rate as a “local option” based on State
legislation.

Actual sales tax collections may vary from year to year depending upon economic
conditions. The current sales tax rate generated $5,879,813 for the annual period
from July 2004 to June 2005 and is projected to generate $6,513,353 for the annual
period from July 2005 to June 2006. Based on projections, this proposed %% in-
crease would generate an additional $1,055,000 in General Fund revenue for the
fiscal year beginning in July 2007.

Many large sales transactions that occur within the City would not be impacted by
this increase and thus would not generate additional sales tax revenue. For exam-
ple, auto vehicles sold to parties residing outside of the City would not be taxed at
the Watsonville sales tax rate nor be allocated to the City of Watsonville. Accord-
ingly, any of these transactions would not be impacted by the proposed %%
increase.

Sales Tax is currently the number one revenue source for the City’s General Fund
and is almost 20% of total General Fund revenues. This demonstrates that the
City’s resources are balanced as many jurisdictions depend on much larger per-
centages for sales tax or their top revenue source, commonly between 30%-50%.

Many local jurisdictions have recently increased their sales tax rates. Salinas,
Sand City and Scotts Valley have increased their rate by y2-cent and Santa Cruz
and Capitola by %-cent.

si Marc A Pimentel, CPA
Administrative Services Director
City of Watsonville

Santa Cruz County

44-21

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L  As part of the recent election regarding an existing property tax known as the Re- tirement Tax, the Watsonville City Council committed to the formation of a Blue Ribbon Committee charged with identifying a sustainable resource base for City services including the possibility of eliminating or reducing the Retirement Tax.  This Blue Ribbon Committee included representatives appointed by:  •	Business  •	Industry  •	Real estate  •	Labor  •	Tax repeal proponents  •	Social services and  •	Each council district  The committee voted to support a % cent sales tax increase, to be combined with a significant reduction to the property tax known as the Retirement Tax. Measure L will increase the retail sales tax from 8% to 8 %%, generating approximately $1.1 million annually to support essential City services. Accompanying Measure M will cap the Retirement Tax to 7.7 cents per $100 of assessed value, which is a reduc- tion of 30% from the current rate. The sales tax increase, Measure L, will only be- come effective if voters also approve Measure M.  The services that will be maintained by this revenue include:  •	Police  •	Fire  •	Parks & Recreation  •	Neighborhood crime prevention  •	Building code enforcement  •	Gang prevention programs  •	Road and pothole repair  •	Other services provided by the City  The Blue Ribbon Committee recommends this Measure because:  •	It is the fairest tax, as it spreads the burden of funding City services across the entire population. We will all share the burden.  •	The sales tax generated will stay in the City of Watsonville, protected from State and Federal government takeaways.  •	Approval of this Measure and Measure M will result in lowering property taxes significantly while saving all City services.  Vote YES on Measure L. Lower your taxes while protecting City services!  si Todd McFarren Chair, Blue Ribbon Committee  si Terry Medina Police Chief, Watsonville  si Dana M. Sales County Schools Trustee  si Bill Neighbors Retired Businessman  si Lorraine E. Stucki Retired	NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L WAS FILED.