bM

C

z S3

< sJ

z z

- o

d a

-J	J3

r* H	c

< <	O

H -O

13 O

DETACH HERE

OFFICIAL SAMPLE BALLOT

001

Palos Verdes Peninsula
Unified School District
Special Election
June 5, 2007

Audio Ballot Also Available

Find Your Polling Place:

•	On back cover of this booklet

•	On the web - www.lavote.net

•	Call 1-800-815-2666

Or Vote By Mail

C0NNY B. McCORMACK
LOS ANGELES COUNTY
REGISTHAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK
12400 IMPERIAL HIGHWAY, NORWALK, CA 90650

(000)815-2666 OR (562)466-1323
INTERNET - www.lavote.net

• POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.
MARK YOUR CHOICES IN THIS BOOKLET AND
TAKE IT WITH YOU TO YOUR VOTING LOCATION

MULTILINGUAL ELECTION MATERIALS

Under federal law, voter Information, Including a sample ballot booklet containing a vote by
mail application, is available in English as well as Chinese, Korean and Spanish. For
multilingual assistance please call: 1-800-481 -8683.

’fitfrE 1-800-481*8683°

an^mi •	•	mrm&m

~°r%[ *Nt*l *13 *8:	#7]	-0 *M ^

1-800-481-8683 °_X	#SHr	« 5. £.&*]

JJ-*3X1-& j9.^»H7| wUh-Jth	#-e~5S£-

2^ o|vfls.	JL

MIH^ 2^4.

Si usted quisiera obtener information sobre la election, incluyendo una solicitud en
espanol para votar por correo por favor llame al 1-800-481-8683. Su llamada sera
contestada por un empleado que habla ingles. Para obtener servicio y atencion en su
idioma, por favor pida hablar con un interprete. (Si usted ya ha solicitado una boleta
electoral de muestra en su idioma, la traduction de esta se le enviara automaticamente
por correo dentro de dos semanas antes de la eleccion.)

%

LA 001-002

OFFICIAL BALLOT

PALOS VERDES PENINSULA
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ELECTION

JUNE 5, 2007

County of Los Angeles

THIS BALLOT STUB SHALL BE REMOVED AND RETAINED BY THE VOTER.

PALOS VERDES PENINSULA
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ELECTION

JUNE 5, 2007

FILL IN BUBBLE WrTW MARKER -► •

PROVIDED

Measure P

To continue funding quality educational programs; preserve	YES—►	o
small class sizes; retain highly qualified teachers/employees;	NO —►	o

provide up-to-date textbooks/instructional
materials; keep pace with advances in
classroom technology; and support educational
programs that enhance student achievement,
shall the Palos Verdes Peninsula Unified School
District extend its expiring school parcel tax for
five years at $209 per parcel with an
independent citizens’ oversight committee and
an exemption for seniors, age 65 or over, and all
money staying locally to benefit our schools?

VOTER INFORMATION BOOKLET

The following pages contain

ANALYSIS

AND

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Argument for the proposed measure is the opinion of the
authors and has not been checked for accuracy by any official
agency.

MAKE EVERY VOTE COUNT!

1. Make sure bubble for each choice is
clearly marked.

2. Review voted ballot for any overvotes
or undervotes.

An "overvote" occurs when a voter casts both a “yes” and a -
“no” vote for a ballot measure. If you make a mistake, request
another ballot.

An"undervote" occurs when a voter does not cast a vote for the
ballot measure contest.

n*

LA 001-004

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

By Raymond G. Fortner, Jr., County Counsel

Approval of Measure P would authorize the Palos Verdes Peninsula Board of
Education (“Board!’) to levy a special parcel tax of $209 per year on each parcel
of taxable real property that receives a separate property tax bill located Within
the Palos Verdes Peninsula Unified School District (“District”). The tax would
be levied for five (5) years, commencing July 1, 2008.

The tax revenues would be used to fund educational programs, materials and
equipment, maintain small class sizes, retain qualified teachers and employees,
update textbooks and instructional materials, and fund advances in classroom
technology.

An exemption to the tax is available for senior citizens for any parcel owned and
occupied by a person age 65 or older upon application to the District. The
exemption is available as prescribed by the Board or as otherwise required by
law. All property that would otherwise be exempt from ad valorem property
taxes will also be exempt from the special parcel tax.

The Board shall establish an independent citizens’ oversight committee to review
expenditures of the proceeds to ensure that such proceeds are applied only to
authorized purposes. The Board shall establish an account into which the
proceeds shall be deposited. The Superintendent or the chief financial officer of
(he District shall file an annual report no later than Januaiy 1 of each year,
commencing January 1, 2009, stating the amount collected and expended, and
the status of any projects required or authorized to be funded.

The taxes levied under this Measure shall be collected by the Treasurer and Tax
Collector at the same time and manner, and subject to the same penalties, as
general ad valorem property taxes. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same
rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

LA 001-005

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

In 2003 approximately 73% of local voters approved a school parcel tax measure
that provides $3.5 million a year to retain quality teachers, maintain small class
sizes and support important educational programs. This stable source of local
funding has helped maintain the excellence of our elementaiy, intermediate and
high schools despite unpredictable and inadequate state funding. This measure
will expire next year.

Measure P extends this important funding for 5 years and increases the parcel tax
by three dollars a month (36 dollars a year) to adjust for inflation. Legally,
Measure P funds must be spent locally to benefit Peninsula schools. None of the
money can be taken away by the State or used for administration.

Seniors over age 65 can apply to be exempt from this tax so that it is not a burden
to those living on a limited fixed income.

Specifically, Measure P funds will continue to be used to retain qualified and
experienced teachers, purchase up-to-date textbooks and instructional materials,
provide modern classroom computers and technology, and maintain small class
sizes.

Each year, an Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee has reviewed the
expenditure of parcel tax funds and reported that the school district has used the
funds as promised. This Oversight Committee will continue to monitor
expenditures to ensure they are spent properly.

Measure P is supported by a broad coalition of teachers, principals, parents,
seniors, business professionals, and community leaders because Measure P will
preserve local funding that is essential for keeping Peninsula schools among the
highest performing schools in California.

The excellence of our local schools helps keep our property values high
and contributes to the quality of life in our community. Please vote Yes on
Measure P.

KAREN HUNTER BIRD
President PVP Council of PTAs

JUDITH A. WEBB

Co-President League of Women Voters

RICKEDLER

Owner, Local Realty Company

CHARLES H. SIE
Retired Xerox Executive

CHUCK MILLER
Local Businessman
Past President; Education Foundation

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

LA 001-006

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE P

PALOS VERDES PENINSULA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
CONTINUING EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION ACT OF 2007

This Measure may be known and referred to as the “Palos Verdes Peninsula
Unified School District Continuing Excellence in Education Act of 2007” or as
“Measure P”.

TERMS OF QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX

Type and Rate of Qualified Special Tax. Upon approval of two-thirds of those
voting on this measure, the Palos Verdes Peninsula Unified School District (the
“District”) shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax (the “Qualified
Special Tax”) of $209 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the
District for no more than five (5) years, commencing July 1,2008.

Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the Qualified Special Tax shall be authorized
to be used to fund (a) educational programs, materials and equipment; (b) the
preservation of small class sizes; (c) the retention of highly qualified teachers and
employees; (d) up-to-date textbooks and instructional materials; and (e)
advances in classroom technology.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens within
the District, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older
shall be exempt from the Qualified Special Tax upon proper application to the
District. The exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures to be
prescribed by the Board of Education of the District (the “Board of Education”)
or otherwise as required by law or by the Treasurer and Tax Collector (the “Tax
Collector”) of the County of Los Angeles (the “County”).

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board of Education shall
establish an independent citizens’ oversight committee comprised of such
members as the Board of Education shall determine to review expenditures of
the proceeds of the Qualified Special Tax in order to ensure that such proceeds
are applied only to authorized purposes.

(Continued on next page)

LA 001-007

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE P (Continued)

Annual Report. Upon the levy and collection of the Qualified Special Tax, the
Board of Education shall cause an account to be established into which the
proceeds of the Qualified Special Tax shall be deposited. For so long as any
proceeds of the Qualified Special Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent
or chief financial officer of the District shall cause a report to be filed with the
Board of Education no later than January 1 of each year, commencing January 1,
2009, stating (a) the amount of Qualified Special Tax collected and expended in
such year, and (b) the status of any projects required or authorized to be funded
from proceeds of the Qualified Special Tax. The report may relate to the
calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period as the
Superintendent of the District shall determine, and may be incorporated into the
annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board of
Education.

Use Limited to Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this measure
shall constitute the specific purposes of the Qualified Special Tax, and proceeds
of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes. *

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Qualified Special Tax shall be collected by the Tax Collector at the same
time and manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem
property taxes collected by the Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at
the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The
collection of the Qualified Special Tax shall not decrease the funds available
from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in
the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from
the Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on
which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt
from the Qualified Special Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by
persons 65 years of age or older are exempt from the Qualified Special Tax as
provided in this measure.

(Continued on next page)

LA 001-008

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE P (Continued)

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has
approved for a senior citizen exemption from the Qualified Special Tax to the
County tax collection officials. The County Assessor’s determination of
exemption or relief for any reason other than the senior citizen exemption of any
parcel from taxation shall be final and binding for the purposes of the Qualified
Special Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination
must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property
pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or
other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Qualified Special
Taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds
pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby .declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent
value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of
this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain
in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

LA 001-009