LAFAYETTE SCHOOL DISTRICT'

Lafayette, Cal ifontia 94549
RESOLUTION MO. 27-0607
PROPOSING A QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX

AND

ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, for a period of years the Lafayette School District has not been funded adequately
by the State Legislature to provide a quality educational, program, and the District is committed
to eliminating all deficit spending and to maintaining a balanced budget; and

WHEREAS, having exhausted all feasible means of generating funds to fund basic programs,
including the current parcel tax and donations from the Lafayette Arts and Science Foundation,
PTAs and Parent Clubs, the District would be forced to significantly reduce basic educational
services; and

WHEREAS, the District has been, affected adversely by Serrano v. Priest equalization and
Proposition 13; and

WHEREAS, the District's projected revenue for the foreseeable future will be inadequate-
without a continuation of and increase to the current parcel tax which expires in June 2008;
necessitating elimination and reduction of educational programs; and

WHEREAS, the Governing Board of the Lafayette School District ('The Governing Board")
believes that a qualified special tax is necessary to maintain quality education for the
students of Lafayette School District. ('The District); and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Section 2 of Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution and Sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079 and 53722 et seq. of the California
Government Code authorize a school district, upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting
on the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and a public
hearing; and

WHEREAS, the Governing Board has conducted a noticed, public hearing, as required by
law, on the question of whether or not to request the District’s voters to authorize funding to
continue the programs identified below;

NOW THEREFORE, THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE LAFAYETTE SCHOOL DISTRICT
HEREBY RESOLVES, DETERMINES AND ORDERS AS FOLLOWS:

Section L That the Board has determined in its best judgment that in order to maintain quality
education in Lafayette, an election is advisable and on. that basis hereby orders the Contra Costa
County Registrar of Voters to call an election and submit to the voters of the District the question
of whether to adopt a qualified special, tax- to maintain the quality of Lafayette’s public education
that has benefited all students and citizens.

(a)	Said qualified special tax shall be in the amounts and for the purposes set forth in the
attached Exhibit A for seven (7) years beginning as of July 1,2008, assessed against each parcel of
taxable land located wholly or partly in the District. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land
located wholly or partly in the District that now receives a separate tax bill from the County of
Contra Costa. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt
from the imposition of said qualified special tax.

(b)	The following parcel categories (listed by Contra Costa County Assessor's Parcel
Identification Code and parcel description) are to be exempt from this special tax:

Code 10 - Vacant unbuildabie

Code 70 - Convalescent hospitals and rest homes

Code 71 - Churches

Code 72 - Schools

Code 74 - Cemeteries

Code 75 - Fraternal and service organizations
Code 76 - Retirement housing complex
Code 77 - Cultural uses (libraries)

Code 78 -- Parks and playgrounds
Code 79 - Government owned parcels
Code 80 - Mineral Rights

Code 81....Private roads

Code 87 - Common, area parcels (in PUDs)

Section 3. That the date of the election shall be November 6. 2007.

Section 4. That the purpose of the election shall be for the voters in the District to vote on a ballot
measure, a full copy of which, is attached hereto and. marked Exhibit A and incorporated by
reference herein. As required by California Elections Code section 13247, the abbreviated form of
the measure to appear on the ballot, is attached hereto as Exhibit B.

Section 5. That the Board has the authority for ordering the election.

Section 6. That the authority for the specifications of this election order is contained in Section.
5322 of the California Education Code.

Section 7. That this Resolution shall stand as the order to the Contra Costa County Registrar of
Voters to call an election within the boundaries of the District on November 6, 2007.

Sc-hiiaf

Section 8. That the Secretary of the Board is hereby directed immediately to send a certified copy
of this Resolution to the Contra Costa County Registrar of Voters, the Contra Costa County Board
of Supervisors, and the Contra Costa County Superintendent, of Schools so that said Superintendent
receives it no later than August 10, 2007.

Section 9. That the Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to deliver
this Resolution, which constitutes the order of election, and a formal notice of the election to the
Contra Costa County Registrar of Voters no later than August 10, 2007. That the Contra Costa
County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to perform the duties under Education Code
Section 5302, to call the election, prepare recommendations, statements, or arguments for the
election as required, and to receive petitions, as necessary.

Section 10, That the Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools Is hereby requested to prepare
a Formal Notice of School Parcel Tax Election (“the Notice”) containing the information specified
in Section 5361. of the Education Code, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit C and
to publish and/or post the Notice as required by law.

Section 11. That pursuant to Section 5303 of tire Education Code, the Contra Costa County
Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to take all steps incident to the preparation for and the
holding of the election in accordance with, law and these specifications. The Board requests that the
Registrar of Voters deliver a copy of all published notices to the Secretary of this Board pursuant to
Section 1.211.3 of the Elections Code.

Section 12. That the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County is authorized to canvass the
returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

Section 13. That in accordance with Education Code section 5342 and Elections Code Section
10402.5, it is hereby requested that the special election to be held hereunder be consolidated by the
Contra Costa County Registrar of Voters and the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors, for all
purposes, with any and all other elections also called to be held on November 6. 2007, insofar as
said elections are to be held in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same as the
territory of the District.

Section 14. That the Governing Board shall provide in each year, pursuant to Government Code
section 7902.1 or any successor provision of law, for any increase in the District’s appropriations
limit as shall he necessary to ensure that proceeds of the Special Tax may be spent for the
authorized purposes.

Section 1.5. That, subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the qualified special tax shall become
effective as of July 1, 2008 and he collected by the Contra Costa County Tax Collector at the same
time as and along with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes
collected by said tax collector. The tax and penalty shall hear interest at the same rate as the rate for
unpaid ad valorem property taxes until, paid.

Section 16. That the members of the Board, the Superintendent of the District, and officers of the
District are hereby authorized and directed, individually and collectively, to do any and. all things
and to execute, deliver, and perform any and all agreements and documents that they deem
necessary or advisable in order to effectuate the purposes of this Resolution, including, without
limitation, to prepare and submit for inclusion in the voter information pamphlet an argument in
favor of passage of the bal lot measure. All actions heretofore taken by the o fficers and agents of the
District that are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution are hereby ratified,
confirmed, and approved in. all. respects.

Section 17, That the members of the Board, the Superintendent, of the District, and officers

of the District are hereby requested and directed, individually and collectively, to provide
accountability measures pursuant to Government Code Section 50075,1 that include, but are not
limited to, all of the following: (a) A statement indicating the specific purposes of the qualified
special tax., (b) a requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific purposes identified
pursuant to subsection (a), (c) the creation of an account into which the proceeds shall be deposited,
and (d) an annual report pursuant to Section 50075.3, of the Government Code, as provided in
Section 18 hereof.

Section 18. That pursuant to Section 50075,3 of the Government Code, the Board directs that the
chief fiscal officer of the District file a report with the Board no later than January 1, 2009 and at
least once a year thereafter. The annual report shall contain both of the following: (a) The amount
of funds collected and expended, and (b) the status of any project required or authorized to be
funded by said funds.

Section 19. That the District’s Superintendent, and designee, are hereby authorized and directed to
make any changes to the text of the measure described in this Resolution, or to the abbreviated
form of the measure, or to the text of this Resolution, as may be convenient or necessary to comply
with the intent of this Resolution, the requirements of elections officials, and requirements of law.

ADOPTED, SIGNED, and APPROVED this 19th day of June, 2007.

AYES:	Appert,	Gerringer,	Silva,	Stromberg,	Teich.man

NOES:

None

ABSTAIN:	None

ABSENT:	None

GOVERNING BOARD OF THE LAFAYETTE SCHOOL DISTRICT

Board President

ATTEST:

Lafayette School District

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

) ss.

CONTRA COSTA COUNTY	)

I, William J. Levinson do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution
No. 27-0607, wl i i ch w as d u ly ad opted by th e Go v ern i n g B o a i;d of th e La fay e tie S ch o o 1 D istrict at
meeting thereof held on the 19th day of June, 2007, and that it was so adopted by the following
vote:

AYES:	Appert, Gerringer, Silva, Strom berg, Teichman

NOES:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

ABSENT:	None

A'

By-



J&r~

William jy^tdnson

In t.eri m S ripen n ten d e n t o f S cho o 1. s

Lafayette School District

EXHIBIT A
(to Resolution 27-0607)

FULL TEXT OF SPECIAL TAX MEASURE

For

LAFAYETTE SCHOOL DISTRICT
PRESERVE QUALITY OF SCHOOLS AND PREVENT REDUCTIONS

IN

CURRENT ACADEMIC PROGRAMS

INTRODUCTION

This measure provides the additional funding required to restore, maintain and enhance a quality
Lafayette educational program.

PURPOSE

To prevent deep cuts at our elementary and middle schools; preserve small class sizes; attract and
retain qualified and experienced teachers, classroom aides, and counselors; provide up-to-date
textbooks, instructional materials and classroom technology; and support educational programs that
enhance student health and achievement, shall Lafayette School District extend its expiring school,
parcel tax for seven, years at $31.3.00 per parcel, with an exemption, for seniors, adjustment for
inflation, and all funds staying local to benefit Lafayette schools?

The Governing Board will fund, all of the programs listed above, unless the Governing Board
determines in any given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes
in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable.

The special tax would be in effect for a period of seven (7) years, beginning July 1,2008, at the
rates shown below on each assessor’s parcel located wholly or partly within the school district.

RATES

The special tax shall be levied on all parcels of property in the Lafayette School District, except
where such parcels are otherwise exempt from taxation. The tax levied shall be at the rate of
$313.00 per parcel on all Residential, Commercial, Industrial and Institutional parcels, whether
such parcels are improved or unimproved, and shall be increased annually by 3% per year.

The uses and sizes of all parcels shall be determined according to the records of the City of
Lafayette. For parcels divided by Tax. Code Area lines, the payment for the portion of the parcel
within, the Lafayette School District shall be the same as the above square footage rates.

The following parcel categories (listed by Contra Costa County Assessor’s Parcel Identification
Code and parcel description) are to be exempt from this special tax:

Code 10 Vacant unbuildable

Code 70 - Convalescent hospitals and rest, homes

Code 71 -• Churches

Code 72...Schools

Code 74 Cemeteries

Code 75 - Fraternal and service organizations

Code 76 ---• Retirement housing complex

Code 77 Cultural uses (libraries)

Code 78 ™ Parks and playgrounds

Code 79 Government owned parcels

Code 80 - Mineral Rights

Code 81 Private roads

Code 87 - Common area parcels (in PUDs)

Any parcel, owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt from this
special tax upon application to the District, The exemption shall be available pursuant to
procedures to be prescribed by the Governing Board of the Lafayette School District or otherwise
as required by law or by the Contra Costa County Tax Collector,

ACCOUNTABILITY AND COMPLIANCE MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075. land 50075.3,
the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special, taxes levied in
accordance with this Measure:

(a)	Proceeds of this Special Tax shall be deposited, into a .Fund which shall be kept separate and
apart from other Funds in the District and shall be applied only as set. forth in this Measure,

(b)	An Annual Report, including the revenues generated by this Special Tax and the expenditures
of these monies and reporting the status of any projects funded, by these monies shall be produced
by the Director of Fiscal Services of the District for the Governing Board no later than January 1 of
the year following the fiscal year during which the monies were expended.

EXHIBIT B

SPECIAL TAX MEASURE
For

LAFAYETTE SCHOOL DISTRICT

(Abbreviated Form) *

To prevent deep cuts at our elementary and. middle schools; preserve small class sizes; attract and
retain qualified and experienced teachers, classroom aides, and. counselors; provide up-to-date
textbooks, instructional materials and classroom technology; and support educational programs that
enhance student health and achievement, shall Lafayette School District extend its expiring school
parcel tax for seven years at $313.00 per parcel, with an exemption for seniors, adjustment for
inflation, and ail funds staying local to benefit Lafayette schools'?

Tax- Yes	Tax	-	No

* Limited to 75 words pursuant to California Elections Code Section 3 3247

FORMAL NOTICE OF SCHOOL PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Lafayette School District of
Contra Costa County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code of
the State of California, an. election, will he held on November 6, 2007, at which election the
to How i n g m eas u re shall he s u. brn mod to the q u ah IT ed electors o f the D i sir i c t and. vo ted up o n:

To prevent deep cuts at our elementary and middle schools; preserve small class sizes; attract, and
retain qualified and experienced teachers, classroom aides, and counselors; provide up-to-date
textbooks, instructional materials and classroom technology; and support educational programs that
enhance student health and achievement, shall Lafayette School District extend, its expiring school
parcel tax for seven years at $3.13.00 per parcel, with an exemption for seniors, adjustment for
inflation, and all funds staying local to benefit Lafayette schools?

Tax - Yes	Tax	- No

All of the purposes enumerated in the foregoing measure shall be united and voted upon as
one single measure, with precincts, places of holding the elections and. officers appointed to
conduct the elections shall be the same as those provided in the local consolidated election, under
the notice of election adopted , 2007 ,

The County Superintendent of Schools of Contra Costa County, by this Notice of Election,
has called the election pursuant to a Resolution of the Governing Board of the Lafayette School
District, adopted	,	2007, in accordance with the provisions of Education Code Sections

5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have-hereunto set my hand this ...........day of_____________ ,	200	.

Joseph A. Ovick, EcLD.

County Superintendent of Schools
Contra Costa County, California

FORMAL NOTICE OF SCHOOL PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Lafayette School District of
Contra Costa County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code of
the State of California, an election will be held on November 6, 2007, at which election the
following measure shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the District and voted upon:

To prevent deep cuts at our elementary and middle schools; preserve small class sizes; attract and
retain qualified and experienced teachers, classroom aides, and counselors; provide up-to-date
textbooks, instructional materials and classroom technology; and support educational programs that
enhance student health and achievement, shall Lafayette School District extend its expiring school
parcel tax. for seven years at $313.00 per parcel, with an exemption for seniors, adjustment for
inflation, and all funds staying local to benefit Lafayette schools?

Tax - Yes	Tax	- No

All of the purposes enumerated in the foregoing measure shall be united and voted upon as
one single measure, with precincts, places of holding the elections and officers appointed to
conduct the elections shall be the same as those provided in the local consolidated election, under
the notice of election adopted ] j fy ,2007 ,

The County Superintendent of Schools of Contra Costa County, by this Notice of Election,
has called the election pursuant to a Resolution of the Governing Board of the Lafayette School
District, adopted } [ q , 2007, in accordance with the provisions of Education Code Sections
5325 and 5361. T " '

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 1 Q day of -Js, it\ .______,	200L?

a. .. c\ v._

Joseph. A. Ovick, Ed.D.	Ext

County Superintendent of Schools^
Contra Costa County, California

Y \ \
OSwA \

J	v	\

Page I of 1

Blank

Sabroe, Jennifer

From:	Sabroe, Jennifer

Sent:	Wednesday, July 18, 2007 1:55 PM

To:	'soive@vGfexccaunty.us'

Cc:	lrmena@vote.cccounty.us'; 'aferber@sciscai,oi'g,; Charles Heath; ’ssiivs@lafsd.k12.ca.us1; Teresa Gerringer

(tgernng@iafsd.k12,ca.us); Tom. Frank

Subject: Lafayette Schoof District Res. 27-0607

RE; Lafayette School District Governing Board Resolution 27-0607, Proposing a Qualified Special Tax
and Establishing Specifications of the Election Order

Ms. Oiveira,

Per Lafayette School District Superintendent Frank Tom’s conversation with you this afternoon, vve are
not going to send you a revised resolution because there was a misunderstanding regarding the changes
that were requested by your department on Friday, July 13.

instead we are making the final change to the resolution and that is to Section 7, to include the district
name in reference to boundaries of the District. The section should now read as follows: "Section 7. That
this Resolution shall stand as the order to the Contra Costa County Registrar of Voters to call an election
within the boundaries of the Lafayette School District on November 6, 2007." It is our understanding that
you will incorporate this change on the Registrar of Voter's copy of the resolution.

Dr. Tom has already given your office written confirmation to use Exhibit B (Abbreviated Form) of the
ballot language and to include the statement for voters to contact the school district office for the full text
of the ballot.

Per your second phone request, there have been no changes to the Lafayette School District boundaries
since the last election.

Jennifer Sabroe, Executive Assistant.

Lafayette School District
3477 School Street
P.O. Box 1029
Lafayette, CA 94549
P: 925.2S9.3502
F: 925.284.5461

7/18/2007