RESOLUTION NO.

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY CALLING A MUNICIPAL
ELECTION TO CONSIDER A SPECIAL TAX MEASURE
AND ORDERING THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE

ELECTION

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY RESOLVES as

follows:

1.	Purpose.

This Resolution calls an election on a special tax measure. The purpose of the
special tax is to collect revenue sufficient to cover a portion of the cost of police, fire,
streets and parks and recreation services.

2.	Election Call.

A municipal election is called for March 6, 2007 to consider the following
measure:

"Shall a city-wide special tax of up to $100.00 per lot or parcel be

approved for each of five (5) fiscal years beginning July 1, 2007?"

3.	Required Vote.

The measure shall pass if two-thirds of the votes are in favor.

4.	Ballot Analysis and Argument.

The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure. The Mayor
shall prepare an argument in favor of the measure not exceeding 300 words in length.
The argument shall be included with other ballot materials. Any person may prepare an
argument against the measure not exceeding 300 words in length. If more than one
argument is submitted against the measure, the City Clerk shall select the argument
against the measure to be included with the ballot materials. Rebuttal arguments shall
be permitted.

5.	Consolidation.

Pursuant to Part 3, commencing with section 10400, Division 10 of the Elections
Code, the Board of Supervisors of Kern County is requested to consolidate this election
with other elections held on the same day in the same territory or in the territory that is
in part the same.

6.	Authorization to Canvass Returns

The Board of Supervisors is authorized to canvass the returns of the election
pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

7.	Board of Supervisors to Render Services

Page 1 of 2

Pursuant to Section 10002 of the Elections Code, the Board of Supervisors is
requested to permit the County Clerk to render all services specified by Section 10418
of the Elections Code relating to the election, for which services the City agrees to
reimburse the County, in accordance with current County pro-rations and allocation
procedures, such services to include the publication of notice.

8.	Formal Notice

The County Clerk shall prepare a Notice of City Election substantially as follows:

"The proposition to be voted upon shall be:

'Shall a special tax of up to $100.00 per lot or parcel be approved

for each of five fiscal years beginning July 1, 2007?"'

9.	Secretary to File Notice with County

The City Clerk shall file a certified copy of this Resolution with the County Clerk.,

no later than December 8, 2006.

10.	Accountability Requirements

The City Council finds and directs that:

(a)	The purpose of the special tax is to fund the following specific programs and

services;

(i)	30% of the proceeds shall be expended for police services.

(ii)	25% of the proceeds shall be expended for fire services.

(iii)	30% of the proceeds shall be expended for street services.

(iv)	15% of the proceeds shall be expended for parks and recreation services

(b)	The special tax shall only be used for the specific purposes authorized in this
resolution;

(c)	Proceeds of the special tax levy shall be placed in a separate account; and

(d)	The Director of Finance shall issue a semi annual report to the City Council
showing the amount of money collected, the amount expended and the purpose of the
expenditures.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED December 5, 2006.

Page 2 of 2

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

) ss

COUNTY OF KERN	)

I,	DENISE HILLIKER, CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF CALIFORNIA CITY,

CALIFORNIA, do hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution of the California City

City Council, Number 12-06-2242, is a full, true and correct copy of said Resolution, and that it

was duly passed, approved and adopted by the City Council at their Regular Meeting

of December 5, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:	Edmiston,	Lessenevitch,	Schafer, Strong, Evans

NAYS:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

ABSENT:	None

Dated: December 5, 2006

l5enise Hilliker, City Clerk
City of California City

(seal)