PAGE

1

CITY

RANCHO PALOS VERDES CITY GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

Member of the City Council Vote for no more than Three	TOM LONG <Wn  Councilmember/Attorney
	DON REEVES » n  Retired Aerospace Manager u ^ ^
	DOUGLAS W. STERN , n  Councilman/Business Attorney ^ w
	PAUL WRIGHT  Small Business Owner
	STEVE WOLOWICZ , n  Councilman/Business Owner g ^ w

RANCHO PALOS VERDES CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

^ Shall an ordinance be adopted that would amend the City’s existing Storm Drain User Fee (which provides a dedicated funding source to repair, ^ reconstruct and maintain the citywide storm drain system and install filtration devices that reduce polluted runoff and protect coastal water quality) by:	8 YES-*0
	9 no-*o
(i) shortening the duration ot the f-ee trom thirty years to ten years and (2) establishing a resident oversight committee?	
^ Shall an ordinance be adopted that would repeal the City’s existing Storm U Drain User Fee?	11 YES"*0
	12 no-k>
END OF BALLOT	

01-006E

LA 152-004

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Measure C proposes an ordinance that would shorten the duration of the City’s
storm drain fee and establish a resident oversight committee.

In a 2005 mail-ballot election, owners of properties that drain into the
City-owned storm drain system voted to approve an annual fee that they would
pay for a maximum period of thirty years. The amount of the fee was determined
by an engineering analysis of the amount of impervious coverage located on
parcels. The purpose of the fee is to pay for the repair and replacement of City
storm drains and to pay for the cost of installing filtration devices to keep
polluted run-off from draining to the ocean. The fund generated by the storm
drain fee can be used only for these purposes. City Staff estimates that
approximately $1.2 million will be raised annually over the thirty-year life of the
storm drain fee.

The City created a Water Quality and Flood Protection Program that includes a
list of projects that could be constructed over the next thirty years and could be
funded by the storm drain fee. The Program recognizes that occasionally, the
City will need to re-prioritize the projects that will be funded by the fee.

If approved, this measure will shorten the duration of the storm drain fee from
thirty years to ten years, which means that the fee will not be collected after
June 30, 2016, and cannot be used to obtain long-term financing to pay for storm
drain repair and filtration projects. In addition, fewer projects will be
constructed, unless the City Council reallocates other City monies for that
purpose. At this time, neither the availability of other City funds to augment the
reduced revenue from the shortened storm drain fee nor the projects that will be
deferred, or eliminated from the Program can be ascertained. It also cannot be
determined whether the shortened duration of the fee will eliminate projects that
would preclude property damage or whether fines will be imposed against the
City for failing to satisfy water quality requirements.

The ordinance proposed by Measure C will create a five-member oversight
committee of City residents. The Committee will conduct an annual public
hearing to review: current and projected City revenues and expenditures; how
the City is spending storm drain fee revenues, and to recommend future
expenditures of fee revenues and the amount of the fee that the City should
collect each year, up to the maximum authorized by Ordinance No 418. As long
as the City is collecting the storm drain fee, the Committee cannot be
discontinued without voter approval.

To be enacted, Measure C requires approval by a majority of the City voters who
cast votes regarding this measure. Measure C is incompatible with the other
measure that is on this ballot, which would repeal the storm drain fee. This
means that if both measures receive approval by a majority vote, the measure
with the highest number of votes will prevail and will be adopted.

CAROL W. LYNCH

City Attorney

PR-900171-1

LA 152-011

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

VOTE YES on Measure C to increase City financial accountability for the storm
drain user fee by shortening the fee’s duration from thirty to ten years and
requiring a resident oversight committee.

During the 2005 election, when the storm drain system user fee was approved by
property owners who pay the fee, some residents expressed concerns that a 30-
year fee is too long, especially if other City revenues increase.

This measure addresses those concerns by establishing a ten-year sunset of the
storm drain user fee. This means that the City cannot collect the fee after 2016,
unless it is re-approved at another election. This ensures that the fee will not be
collected when it is not needed.

In response to concerns about accountability for fee revenues, the City Council
has established an independent five-member resident oversight Committee. This
measure provides that the Committee cannot be eliminated while the fee is
collected.

Measure C requires the Committee:

-	To hold at least one public hearing annually and issue a report about how fee
revenues have been, and will be, spent by the City.

-	To review the City’s overall revenues and expenditures and make a
recommendation about whether to collect the fee for the upcoming fiscal
year. This assures fiscal accountability and responsible financial management
of fee revenues so residents won’t be charged if collection of the entire fee is
not necessary.

Many other Community Leaders along with the Palos Verdes Peninsula
Chamber of Commerce support this proposal. There is no other City fund that is
dedicated solely to repairing the City’s storm drains.

We urge you to help protect Rancho Palos Verdes in supporting the option of
retaining the user fee while improving accountability by voting YES on
Measure C.

STEVE KUYKENDALL
Former Mayor

KENDYDA
Former Mayor

JON CARTWRIGHT

Former Chair of the Planning Commission

HENRY OTT

Member of the Oversight Committee

TOM LONG
Mayor

PR-900171-2

LA 152-012

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

The RPV City Council would not have created this measure if the taxpayers had
not qualified the Repeal Initiative. It is an attempt to confuse the voters by
promising a shorter “sunset” and formalizing an “oversight committee.”

It would “sunset” the TAX - “unless it is re-approved at another election.” The
current utility tax never did “sunset” as planned. This measure would do nothing
more than delay the inevitable expensive special election for 10 years. They have
had two chances and failed to reduce the TAX when not needed and to bypass
the 2% annual increase. Alluding to “possible City revenue increases”, a thinly
veiled reference to the Terranea (hotel at old Marineland) occupancy tax in 2-3
years, omits any commitment to storm drain repairs.

Don't be misled that an oversight committee has any authority beyond
confirmation that the TAX is spent on storm drains. The current committee’s
only concern regarding the 2% increase this year was “how it would look to the
voters on November 6.”

Regarding the Peninsula Chamber of Commerce, only about 25% of the
members are located within RPV. Many of the proponents of this measure have
special interests regarding how the city revenues are spent. Facts, not hyperbole,
should be the only criteria for your vote.

Vote NO on this measure because it is misleading and an insult to the 80% of the
property owners who do have to pay this TAX.

BARBARA FERRARO

Former Mayor, Rancho Palos Verdes

BARRY J. HILDEBRAND

Committee to Repeal the RPV Storm Drain User Fee

PR-900171-3

LA 152-013

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Don’t be fooled again! This measure contains nothing new except a promised
10-year “sunset” on the storm drain tax. Remember the utility tax that was
supposed to “sunset” but has quietly continued at 3%. This tax won’t disappear
either unless you stop it now!

The tax and spend members of your city council continue lavishing your tax
dollars on special interest projects and increased bureaucracy at city hall. The
original plan was based on the need for $25 Million including contingency and
overhead. However, the actual fees being collected would amount to $39 Million
over 30 years in today’s dollars. That “trivial” 2% yearly inflation adjustment will
make the total tax over $50 Million.

So! How can they tell you that a 10-year sunset solves the problem when it only
provides about $13 million? The recent transfer of $6 million from the General
Fund without impacting reserves proves that this tax is not needed at all if we
force a re-allocation of revenues. In fact, had the “Committee to Repeal the
RPV Storm Drain Fee” not been successful in getting their initiative on this
ballot, this new misleading measure would not have been created by your
council.

Whether you are part of the 80% being asked to shoulder this additional
financial burden or the 20% given a free ride, you should nevertheless be
outraged at how this tax myth was created. You have a chance to stop this
nonsense and make public safety and infrastructure repair the real #1 priorities
in RPV. They fooled us once: shame on them. If they fool us again: shame on us!

Your NO vote on this measure is needed to insure that the same TAX with
another hollow promise does not prevail.

DON REEVES

Committee to Repeal the RPV Storm Drain User Fee
BARRY HILDEBRAND

Committee to Repeal the RPV Storm Drain User Fee

PR-900171-4

LA 152-014

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

By voting YES on Measure C you will be increasing citizen involvement and
taxpayer protections for our much needed storm drain user fee.

In 2005, property owners of Rancho Palos Verdes voted to impose upon
themselves a user fee to repair badly damaged storm drains. As citizens of a
seaside community we are all aware of the threat these storm drains can be when
they fail. Property values, our quality of life, and community safety would have
been threatened had we not voted to repair these dilapidated drains.

There is no question we must repair these storm drains. Our independent
citizen’s oversight committee recommended Measure C because it strengthens
the accountability and oversight provisions of the user fee already passed by
property owners.

Rancho Palos Verdes has a proud record of strong fiscal management. Preserve
that history with your YES vote on Measure C.

Measure C will add greater taxpayer protections through:

1.	ACCOUNTABILITY - Shorten the mandatory time of the user fee from 30
to 10 years. Then if needed, only the voters can extend its duration;

2.	INDEPENDENT CITIZEN OVERSIGHT - Formally creates a resident
oversight committee charged with public reviewing and reporting on the

expenses of these funds.

A YES vote on Measure C will ensure that these added protections cannot be
removed without a vote of the people. Vote YES to increase accountability,
taxpayer protection, and citizen oversight on these badly needed revenues.

FRANK J. LYON
Chair, Oversight Committee

ANN D. SHAW

Former Mayor

JOHN CONSTANTINO
Member, Oversight Committee

LARRY CLARK
Councilman & Former Mayor

GINA G. MCLEOD

Chair, Finance Advisory Committee

PR-900171-5

LA 152-015

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE C

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF RANCHO PALOS VERDES AMENDING
CHAPTER 3.44 OF TITLE 3 OF THE RANCHO PALOS VERDES
MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING THE ANNUAL STORM DRAIN USER FEE

WHEREAS, the owners of properties that utilize the City of Rancho Palos
Verdes’ storm drain system approved an annual Storm Drain User Fee pursuant
to a mail ballot election held on August 30, 2005, by adopting Ordinance No.
418, which amended the Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code (the “Municipal
Code”) by adding new chapter 3.44; and

WHEREAS, a measure to repeal the annual Storm Drain User Fee has qualified
for the ballot and will be submitted to the City’s electorate at the November 6,
2007 election; and

WHEREAS, in lieu of repealing the Storm Drain User Fee, the People of the
City of Rancho Palos Verdes desire to amend its provisions by shortening the
duration of the annual Storm Drain User Fee from thirty years to ten years and
by establishing an oversight committee of City residents to monitor the annual
Storm Drain User Fee expenditures; and

WHEREAS, if both this ordinance amending Chapter 3.44 of the Municipal
Code and the measure repealing the annual Storm Drain User Fee receive a
majority vote of the voters who vote on each measure at the November 6, 2007
election, it is the People’s intent that the provisions of both cannot be placed into

effect and are in hopeless and irremediable conflict; and

WHEREAS, it is the People’s express intent that this ordinance amending
Chapter 3.44 of the Municipal Code shall be considered a conflicting measure to
the measure repealing the annual Storm Drain User Fee, such that pursuant to
Article II, Section 10(b) of the California Constitution and Section 9221 of the
Elections Code, the measure receiving the highest affirmative vote shall prevail
at the election;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF RANCHO PALOS
VERDES DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Section 3.44.070 of Chapter 3.44 of Title 3 of the Rancho Palos
Verdes Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

“3.44.070 Duration.

Unless repealed previously by the city council pursuant to section 3.44.020(G)(i),
the storm drain user fee imposed by this chapter shall expire on June 30, 2016,
and shall not be levied by the city during any subsequent fiscal year.”

Section 2. Chapter 3.44 of Title 3 of the Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code
is hereby amended by adding Section 3.44.080 thereto to read as follows:

(Continued on next page)

PR-900171-6

LA 152-016

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE C (Continued)

“Section 3.44.080 Storm Drain User Fee Oversight Committee

A.	An oversight committee (“committee”) is created and established. The
committee shall hold at least one public hearing and issue a report, on at least an
annual basis, to inform city residents and the city council regarding how storm
drain user fee revenues are being spent and to make recommendations to the city
council regarding future expenditures of the storm drain user fee revenues. In
addition, the oversight committee shall make a recommendation to the city
council regarding whether to collect the storm drain user fee for the upcoming
fiscal year, and, if so, the rate per ERU for that fiscal year. In making its
recommendation to the city council, the oversight committee shall consider the
current and projected revenues of the city for the upcoming fiscal year, including
but not limited to, property taxes, sales taxes and transient occupancy taxes; the
current and projected expenditures of the city for the fiscal year, including, but
not limited to, proposed expenditures in connection with the city’s storm drain
system; the balance, if any, in the water quality and flood protection program
enterprise fund, and the current and projected general fund reserves. The
oversight committee shall forward its report and recommendations to the city
council prior to the annual public hearing on the storm drain user fee that will be
conducted by the city council. The oversight committee also shall perform other
assignments regarding the water quality and flood protection program, as
directed by the city council or upon request by staff.

B.	The oversight committee shall consist of five residents of the city who shall
be appointed by, and shall serve at the pleasure of, the city council. The term of
office for three members of the oversight committee shall be four years, and the
initial term of office for two members of the oversight committee shall be two
years. After the initial term, all members of the oversight committee shall have
four-year terms. The terms of office shall expire on the date of the second
regular city council meeting in January of even years, or until a successor is
appointed.”

Section 3. The provisions adopted by this Measure shall be amended or
repealed only by the voters of the City of Rancho Palos Verdes at an election
held in compliance with State law and local ordinances.

Section 4. If any section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this ordinance, or the application thereof to any person or place, is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this
Ordinance. The People of the City of Rancho Palos Verdes hereby declare that
they would have adopted this Ordinance, and each and every section, subsection,
subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses,
phrases, or portions thereof be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900171-7

LA 152-017

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE C (Continued)

Section 5. The People of the City of Rancho Palos Verdes hereby declare that
this Measure conflicts in its entirety with the provisions of the initiative measure
on the ballot for the November 6, 2007 election to repeal the Storm Drain User
Fee (the “initiative”). If this Measure receives a higher number of affirmative
votes than the initiative, the provisions of this Measure shall control and the
initiative shall not take effect for any purpose pursuant to Article II, Section
10(b) of the California Constitution and Section 9221 of the Elections Code.

Section 6. The City Clerk is directed to certify to the enactment of this
Ordinance and to cause this Ordinance to be posted as required by law.

PR-900171-!

LA 152-018