

Proposition G - Deletion of Obsolete Sections

Official Title And Summary:

Proposition G:

Deletion of Obsolete Sections

Shall Proposition G, which amends the Long Beach
City Charter by deleting obsolete provisions regarding
outdated tax, fiscal year and financial account
descriptions, be adopted?

Impartial Analysis Of Proposition G

By Robert E. Shannon, City Attorney

Voter approval of Proposition G would delete
Sections 903,1500,1700,1707,1714,1717 and
1724 from the Long Beach City Charter.

Presently, the Long Beach City Charter contains
provisions establishing taxes for public recreation,
libraries, transportation and the Municipal Band.
The proposed amendment would eliminate these
tax provisions.

Presently, the Long Beach City Charter requires the
establishment of a Department of Public Utilities.
The proposed amendment would eliminate this
requirement.

Presently, the Long Beach City Charter
designates the City’s fiscal year, and requires
the establishment of a general purpose reserve
account and limits the amount of funds which
may be placed in that account. The proposed
amendment would eliminate this requirement.

Proposition G - Deletion of Obsolete Sections

Argument in Favor of Proposition G

Because our City’s Charter is over eighty years
old, some sections have become outdated and
unnecessary, which is the reason for this “clean-up”
amendment. For example, because of substantial
changes in the City's financial practices and
departmental structure over the years, certain
sections describing outdated accounting and
department names should be deleted.

In addition, the Charter appears to impose certain
taxes for public recreation, libraries, transportation
and the Municipal Band, which have not been
imposed in over fifty years. Moreover, California’s

Vote No on G, and send the politicians a big
message: our need and challenge is to update
the obsolete attitude and provisions of the
entire charter, not just a few harmless old
sections.

Local government should be leading the
change to a more participatory democracy, not
clinging to an anti-democratic charter. Maybe
it’s natural for established local politicians
to endorse the present setup, whose model
often seems closer to Tsarist Russia than to
the citizen democracy which ancient Athens
showed is possible. But our city needs the
empowered and encouraged talents of all
citizens in order to properly study, deliberate
and address all our problems. We should

Proposition 13 now requires that even if the City
desired to impose these taxes, it would require a
new approval by a vote of the people. In order to
avoid confusion regarding these taxes, I believe that
they should be deleted entirely from the Charter.

Robert E. Shannon
Long Beach City Attorney

enable all willing citizens to meaningfully
participate, without their having to join the
elite for whom political office or appointment
or activism is a career or totally pre-emptive
activity.

I urge all independent-minded voters to
seek out alternative media and opinion, and
alternative perspectives, as for instance in
LBReport.com and (in coming weeks) on my
website www.joeweinstein.info.

JOE WEINSTEIN

Mathematical and Statistical Analyst

Rebuttal To Argument in Favor of Proposition G

Proposition G - Deletion of Obsolete Sections

Argument Against Proposition G

Prop. G abolishes a few supposedly obsolete but
harmless charter provisions. But meanwhile, our
existing charter as a whole is indeed obsolete and
thereby very harmful. That’s because our city
faces deep problems, even compared with other
California cities. These problems now include
pollution, poverty, and lack of police to cope with
crime and intimidation.

We are unusually and dangerously entangled in
global warming. Our local economy now is hugely
promoting it, and our neighborhoods are in peril
from it. Much of the massive fuel consumption
which triggers global wrarming arises from massive
transport - promoted or served by enterprises like
PoLB, LGB and Boeing. Melt of the Greenland ice,
perhaps within a few decades, will forever drown
neighborhoods like Belmont Shore, Naples and
Peninsula.

Effective coping with our problems will require true
working democracy - involving all willing citizens as
empowered partners.

Our charter and municipal governance remain
archaic and anti-democratic. We have nearly as
many adult citizens as a small state, and more
than each 1776 colony - but far more taxation and
far less representation per resident. Unlike state
governments, ours lacks multiple centers of power
and initiative, and the checks and balances needed
for due precaution. We don’t even have a second
legislative chamber such as a large assembly of
neighborhood representatives. Between elections,
out of over 350,000 of us adult Long Beach citizens,
just the same fewr dozen people (Council, Mayor,
elected officers, some Commissioners) get any
power to make any decisions.

Vote No on Prop. G, to send the message that our
city needs not fake but real charter reform. Our
home city needs not obsolete oligarchy, but timely
democracy.

JOE WEINSTEIN

Rebuttal To Argument Against Proposition G

No rebuttal to Argument Against submitted.

Proposition G

EXHIBIT “G”

’ROPOSITION G

PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT

(New provisions or language added to
existing Charter sections are underlined; language deleted from
the existing Charter section are shown in strikeout type.)

Section 1. That Sections 903,1500, 1700,
1707, 1714, 1717, and 1724 of the Charter of the City of Long
Beach be deleted to read as follows:

onall-
ptirpeses-

real and persomtf

of public recreation.

established a Department
supervision and control of
consist

finances or i a

I by the-City Council. Upon
r-saitHieneral

litnitiitaining-branchdibranes-
rreal at

books, papers, pubHcarionsHttr

mecessaryt

Text For Proposed Propositions G & H

i

