OFFICIAL BALLOT / BOLETA OFICIAL
CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL AND SPECIAL DISTRICT ELECTIONS
ELECCIONES DE DISTRITOS ESCOLARES CONSOLIDADOS Y DE DISTRITOS ESPECIALES
NOVEMBER 6, 2007, FRESNO COUNTY / 6 DE NOVIEMBRE DEL 2007, CONDADO DE FRESNO

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS: You must use a black pen, blue pen or No, 2 pencil to completely fill in the oval to the left of your choice. Fill in the whole oval, or
your vote may not be counted.

INSTRUCCIONES AL ELECTOR: Utilice usted una pluma o boligrafo de tinta negra o azul, o bien un lapiz No. 2, para llenar completamente el ovalo al lado
izquierdo de su preferencia. Llene el ovalo completamente, para que su voto sea contado con seguridad.

Fill in oval like this •	Llene	el	ovalo	asi	m

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTERS
PROPUESTAS SOMETIDAS A LOS ELECTORES
CITY/CIUDAD
CITY OF SELMA / CIUDAD DE SELMA

MEASURE S: Selma Police, Fire, 9-1-1 Response and Anti-Gang/Drug Prevention Measure. To hire additional firefighters/police officers for multiple
emergencies; purchase fire engines, police cars, and technology to improve 9-1-1 emergency response; buy firefighter breathing apparatus/protective clothing;
fully staff two new fire stations for population growth; increase police patrols to protect schools/parks; build a safe police/fire headquarters; and expand anti-
gang/drug prevention services; shall the City of Selma enact a one-half cent sales tax requiring Citizens' over sight and mandatory annual independent audits?
INICIATIVA DE LEY S: Iniciativa de Ley para la Policia, Bomberos, Respuesta del 9-1-1 y Prevention contra Pandillas/Drogas de Selma. ^Debe la
Ciudad de Selma promulgar un impuesto a las ventas de medio centavo que requiera de supervision Ciudadana y auditorias anuales independientes y
obligatorias para contratar oficiales de policias/bomberos adicionales para emergencias multiples; comprar camiones de bomberos, patrullas, y tecnologia para
mejorar la respuesta a emergencias del 9-1-1; comprar respiradores/ropa de protection para bomberos; dotar completamente de personal dos nuevas
estaciones de bomberos debido al crecimiento poblacional; aumentarel patrullaje de la policia para protegerescuelas/parques; construir oficinas centrales de
policia/bomberos seguras contra terremotos; y ampliar los servicios de prevention contra pandillas/drogas?

QYES, SI
O NO, NO

001-NP

FRONT Card 1 RptPct610-10 "0000610"

FR 003-003

CITY OF SELMA
MEASURE S
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

Selma Police, Fire, 9-1-1 Response and Anti-Gang/Drug Prevention Measure. To

hire additional firefighters/police officers for multiple emergencies; purchase fire
engines, police cars, and technology to improve 9-1-1 emergency response; buy
firefighter breathing apparatus/protective clothing; fully staff two new fire stations for
population growth; increase police patrols to protect schools/parks; build a safe
police/fire headquarters; and expand anti-gang/drug prevention services; shall the City
of Selma enact a one-half cent sales tax requiring Citizens’ over sight and mandatory
annual independent audits?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Based on findings that increases in gang activity, drug trafficking,
methamphetamine labs, and related criminal activity within City limits create a need for
additional police presence and that enhanced firefighting capabilities are needed to
respond to increasing calls for services from a growing population, the City Council of
the City of Selma adopted Resolution No. 2007-44R, calling for a citywide municipal
election on “Measure S” the “Selma Police, Fire, 9-1-1 Response and Anti-gang/Drug
Prevention Measure.” Measure S provides for a Vz cent sales tax increase enacted
pursuant to Ordinance No. 2007-8, approved by the City Council of the City of Selma.
The revenues generated by the tax increase must be maintained in a separate “Public
Safety Fund” and may only legally be used for the public safety purposes identified
below and in Ordinance No. 2007-8. The Vz cent increase in sales tax is applicable to
the same transactions as is the general state sales tax, and subject to all state
exemptions and exclusions. The effect of the measure is to enact an additional Vz cent
sales tax on transactions that are subject to sales tax under existing law that occur
within the boundaries of the City of Selma.

The measure and implementing ordinance require that all proceeds of the tax be
paid into a Public Safety Fund. These funds can only be spent in the City of Selma for
the purposes designated in a Public Safety Expenditure Plan which is part of the
implementing ordinance. These purposes include (a) obtaining, operating and/or
maintaining police protection equipment, paying the salaries of police protection
personnel, and such other police protection service expenses, including capital
expenditures, deemed necessary by the City Council of the City of Selma consistent
with the Public Safety Expenditure Plan; (b) obtaining, operating and/or maintaining
fire protection equipment, paying the salaries and benefits of fire protection personnel,
and such other fire protection service expenses, including capital expenditures,
deemed necessary by the City Council of the City of Selma consistent with the Public
Safety Expenditure Plan. The ordinance prohibits use of revenues collected under
Measure S on department administrator’s salaries, General Fund operating expenses,
or projects or expenditures of any type that are not part of the Public Safety
Expenditure Plan which identifies the anticipated revenue to be derived from the Vz
cent increase in the sales tax and planned expenditures for public safety purposes.
The ordinance establishes an Independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee and
requires mandatory independent financial audits of the Public Safety Fund.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 2007-8 and
Measure S. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the
Elections Official’s office at (559) 488-3246 and a copy will be mailed at no cost
to you.

s/ Neal E. Costanzo

City Attorney for

the City of Selma

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Want to get gangs and drugs out of Selma? If so, vote YES on S.

With approximately 350 gang members and associates in Selma - and the number of
drug arrests increasing by nearly 115% in the past four years - we must attack this
problem, by voting YES on S.

Selma’s population also continues to increase and the number of 9-1-1 calls has
grown by 73% in the last four years. We don’t have enough firefighters or police
officers to respond to more than one emergency at a time. Our police and fire services
have not kept up with growth.

YES on S improves YOUR safety by increasing police presence in Selma’s
neighborhoods, parks and schools, expanding community policing, and increasing
anti-drug and anti-gang police officers.

YES on S expands anti-gang/drug-prevention services for our youth.

YES on S hires more firefighters and police officers to respond quickly to more than
one emergency at a time.

YES on S hires more anti-gang and anti-drug officers to fight gangs, meth labs and
drug trafficking.

YES on S improves police/firefighter training and purchases protective clothing and
breathing apparatus.

Measure S includes strong fiscal accountability requirements, such as mandatory
annual, independent financial audits and Independent Citizen’s Oversight. All funds
will be deposited into a separate Public Safety Fund to ensure money is spent as
promised to the community. Revenues are in addition to - not replacement of - existing
Public Safety funding. Visitors shopping in Selma also pay.

YES on S is a fiscally responsible plan to protect our families and keep our children
from gangs and drugs. Join your Selma Police Officers and Firefighters, paramedics,
educators, business leaders, youth and senior advocates in VOTING YES on S.
www.KeepSelmaSafe.com.

s/ Fabian Uresti
President, Selma Firefighters Association

s/ Johnny L. Smith
Board member, Selma Unified School District

s / Steve Yribarren
President, Selma Chamber of Commerce

si Mark Clifton
Vice-President, Selma Police Officers Association

s/ Nathan Williams
EMT/Engineer

THERE WAS NO ARGUMENT FILED AGAINST THIS MEASURE

PR-8001-1

FR 003-005