Measure A: Extension of Parcel Tax for Supplemental School Funding, Emery Unified School District

To continue the improvement of student achievement in Emeryville schools by continuing local funding for reading, math, and science instruction; keeping class sizes small; retaining qualified and experienced teachers and school employees; maintaining classroom technology; and supporting educational programs, shall Emery Unified School District extend its expiring parcel tax at 15 cents per square foot of improved property for ten years with an exemption for seniors, an independent citizen's oversight committee and all funds staying local?

Impartial Analysis from Alameda County Counsel
Measure A, an Emery Unified School District ("District") special parcel tax measure, seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy an annual special parcel tax on each parcel of taxable land for a period of ten years, beginning July 1, 2009. Voters of the District previously authorized a parcel tax assessment of $0.10 per square foot of improved property, which assessment expires on July 1, 2009. This measure would extend that levy an additional ten years, to July 1, 2019, and would also increase the amount of the levy for the parcel tax assessment to $0.15 per square foot of improved property. School districts have the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposals pursuant to the provisions of Article XIIIA, Section 4 and Section 2 of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution and sections 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 of the California Government Code. If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, a special tax will be imposed annually for ten years at the rate of fifteen (15) cents per square foot of improved property. The tax will be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected. Upon application to the District, an exemption may be granted to each property owner who is 65 ears of age or older as of July 1 of any tax assessment year for any parcel used as his or her principal place of residence. If the measure passes, the allocation of the funding revenue is to be used for the specific purposes set forth in the full text of the measure in this sample ballot, including class size reduction, retaining qualified teachers and maintaining classroom technology. The measure further provides that the monies collected shall be accounted for separately and shall be expended only for those specified purposes. A citizens' oversight committee will advise the District about proper expenditure of the proceeds of the special tax. If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail and the Emery Unified School district will not be authorized to levy the special tax.
s/Richard E. Winnie  County Counsel
The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure A, which measure is printed in full in this sample ballot pamphlet. If you desire an additional copy of the measure, please cal the Elections Official's office at (510) 272-6933 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.



Arguments For Measure A
In 2003, 77% of local voters approved a special school assessment that provides important supplemental funding for Emeryville schools. This stable, local revenue source has helped prevent deep cuts when State funding is inadequate and unstable.
This funding is set to expire. Voter approval of Measure A will continue this critical funding that is used to maintain small class sizes, staff school libraries, purchase textbooks and instructional materials, and keep up-to-date technology in our class rooms.
Each year since voters approved this funding for our schools, student text scores have improved.
Specifically, Measure A funds are used to:
	•	Maintain small class sizes in math, science, and reading
	•	Maintain school libraries with full time librarians
	•	Purchase upgraded technology and textbooks
	•	Ensure access to counselors to students at all levels
	•	Improve tutoring and mentoring programs
	•	Implement the wellness program 
An Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee has reviewed the expenditure of these funds annually and reported that the school district has used the funds as promised. This oversight Committee will continue to monitor expenditures to ensure they are spent properly.
Every penny goes to support classroom instruction.
Seniors are eligible for an exemption so that this assessment does not become a burden to those living on a fixed income.
All funds from Measure A will stay in Emeryville to benefit local schools. No funds can be taken away by the State or other school districts.
Measure A is supported by a broad partnership of teachers, principals, parents, seniors, business leaders, and community leaders because Measure A will preserve local funding that is essential for continuing the progress in Emeryville schools.
Please vote YES on Measure A.
s/ Melodi Dice, President, Emery Board of Education
s/ Nora Davis, Mayor of Emeryville
s/ Ruth Atkin, Vice Mayor of Emeryville
s/ Ken Bukowski, City Council Member Emeryville
s/ Joyce Jacobson, Chair of the Measure A Oversight Committee

(No arguments against Measure A were submitted)

Full Text of Measure A
(a) To continue the improvement of student achievement in Emeryville schools by continuing local funding for reading, math, and science instruction; keeping class sizes small; retaining qualified and experienced teachers and school employees; maintaining classroom technology; and supporting educational programs, shall Emery Unified School District extend its expiring parcel tax at 15 cents per square foot of improved property for ten years with an exemption for seniors, an independent citizens' oversight committee and all funds staying local, as follows:
(i) To strengthen and improve academic curriculum and educational programs in the following essential areas:
(A) Mathematics
(B) Science
(C) Literacy
(D) Music
(E) Visual and Performing Arts
(ii) To strengthen and improve programs and services in the following areas which contribute to student academic success?
(A) School libraries
(B) Wellness Initiative
(C) Counseling
(D) Tutoring and mentoring
(E) School site technology support
(F) English language development
(iii) To retain and recruit quality teachers and staff.
 (b) The special tax shall be levied as follows:
(i) On all taxable real property at a rate of $0.15 per square foot of improved property per year.
(ii) Real property otherwise exempted from taxation under the constitution and laws of the State of California shall also be exempted from any liability for the special tax imposed by this measure.
(iii) n exemption from the special tax will be made available to each property owner in the District who will attain the age of 65 years prior to July 1 of the assessment year, who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence and who applies to the District on or before July 1, 2007, or July 1 of any succeeding year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel tax for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her principal residence. Senior exemptions granted during the term of the current special assessment will continue. In addition, should state law ever permit, there shall be an extension for property exclusively rented or leased to those age 65 years or older.
 (c) The revenue raised by the special tax shall not be used for general educational purposes but shall be used solely for the specific educational purposes set forth in this measure. Each year, the governing board of the District shall determine which specific educational purposes shall be funded and the amount of such funding. The revenue raised by the special tax shall be accounted for separately. Each year, the governing board of the District shall prepare and make available to the public, a written financial report about the revenue raised by the special tax and its expenditures in accordance with the specific purposes of the measure. Such report shall be presented at a public meeting of the governing board of the District.
 (d) The citizens' oversight committee established in connection with the existing special tax shall be continued and which shall meet and advise the governing board of the District about the proper expenditure of the proceeds of the special tax. The citizens' oversight committee shall also review the annual report prepared by the District regarding the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be funded.
 (e) On July 1, 2007, and thereafter, the special tax shall be collected by the Alameda County Tax collector in the same manor as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code. The special tax shall be subject to the same penalty and enforcement provisions as relate to ad valorem taxes. The special tax and penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem taxes.
 (f) The provisions of this measure shall not apply to any person, association or corporation or to any property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the District to impose the tax herein provided. If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, part or clause of this measure is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such decision shall not affect or impair the validity of the remaining portions of this measure. It is hereby declared that the intention of the governing board of the District and the electorate that this measure would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid section, subsection, phrase or clause thereof had not been included.