ORDINANCE NO. 2007 - 8

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF SELMA
ADDING CHAPTER 2.5 TO TITLE V OF THE SELMA MUNICIPAL CODE,
ENACTING A SPECIAL 1/2 CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR THE
IMPROVEMENT OF GANG AND DRUG PREVENTION, 911 EMERGENCY, AND
PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SELMA DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Chapter 2.5 is hereby added to Title V of the Selma Municipal Code, to read as
follows:

“5-2.5-1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Selma Police, Fire, 9-1-1 Response, and
Anti-Gang & Drug Prevention Ordinance, a special transactions and use tax ordinance. The City
of Selma hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City.

5-2.5-2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

5-2.5-3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a special retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
enactment of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

1

5-2.5-4.	CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract

with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

5-2 5-5.	TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal

property at retail, a special tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory
of the City at the rate of 0.50% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.
Such tax shall be in addition to any other transactions tax imposed by this Code or applicable
State law.

5-2.5-6.	PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are

consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

5-2 5-7.	USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other

consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of 0.50% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. Such special tax shall be in addition to any other use tax imposed by this Code or
applicable State law.

5-2 5-8.	ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise

provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part

1.6	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

5-2 5-9.	LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF

USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

2

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be
to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

5-2.5-10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not
be required by this ordinance.

5.2.5-11.	EXEMPTIONS	AND	EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

3

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax enacted by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

5-2.5-12. AMENDMENTS.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all
amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance unless any increase in the rate of
this tax is first approved by 2/3 of the voters of the City of Selma voting on such question.

B.	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9217 or any successor statute, the
City Council of the City of Selma may amend or repeal this ordinance and any of its exhibits, but
not increase or extend the rate of tax imposed herein, without a vote of the people.

5

5-2.5-13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

5-2.5-14.	SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof

to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

5-2.5-15. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS AND EXPENDITURE PLAN. All proceeds of the
tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be accounted for and paid into a Public Safety Fund or
special account designated for use by the City of Selma only for the Public Safety Services set
forth in the Program Guidelines and Public Safety Expenditure Plan for the administration and
expenditure of the tax proceeds, attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit “1.” The Public Safety
Expenditure Plan may be amended from time to time by a majority vote of the City Council, so
long as the funds are exclusively utilized for public safety, police and fire protection services
within the City of Selma. No funds can be taken by the State or another government agency - all
funds can only be spent within the City of Selma for the purposes designated in the Public Safety
Expenditure Plan. These purposes include: (a) obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or
maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police
protection personnel, and such other police protection service expenses as are deemed necessary
by the City Council for the benefit of the safety of residents of the City, consistent with the
Public Safety Expenditure Plan; (b) obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining fire
protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of fire protection personnel,
and such other fire protection service expenses, including capital expenses, as are deemed
necessary by the City Council for the benefit of the safety of residents of the City and consistent
with the Public Safety Expenditure Plan. No revenues collected pursuant to the tax levied hereby
may be spent on department administrators’ salaries, General Fund operating expenses in effect
at the time this ordinance becomes effective, or projects not a part of the Public Safety Measure
Police and Fire Expenditure Plan. It is the intent of the People that revenues collected hereunder
shall supplement, rather than supplant, existing City expenditures for Public Safety.

5-2.5-16	ESTABLISHMENT OF	CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.

A.	Committee Established.

There is hereby established in the City of Selma that an Independent Citizen’s Oversight
Committee shall monitor the expenditures of revenue collected pursuant to this Chapter only and
report to the People and the City Council.

B.	Selection of Members.

Members of the Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the City Council. The
Committee shall consist of five members. The Citizens’ Oversight Committee members shall not
be current City of Selma employees, officials, contractors or vendors of the City. Past
employees, officials or vendors shall be eligible to serve on the Committee, provided that there
are no conflicts of interest as determined by the City Attorney.

6

Of the members of the Committee first appointed, three shall be appointed for terms of two years
and two for terms of three years. Their successors shall be appointed for terms of three years. No
member may serve more than two consecutive three-year terms.

The City Council shall solicit Citizens’ Oversight Committee members through an open
application process that is promoted through a broad-based recruitment process. Any Selma
resident is eligible to apply for Committee membership, subject to the appointment categories
specified above. All applications will be reviewed by the City Council, which will have the
authority to make all final decisions on Committee representation, subject to these guidelines.

C.	Purpose and Jurisdiction.

The Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall review expenditures of revenue collected pursuant to
this Chapter only to determine whether such funds are expended for the purposes specified in the
then-current Public Safety Measure Police and Fire Expenditure Plan, and issuing reports on
their findings to the City Council and public at least annually. Committee members may also
review the annual financial or performance audits performed by an independent auditor. The
Committee shall confine its oversight specifically to revenues generated under this Chapter.
Revenue generated through other sources shall be outside the jurisdiction of the Public Safety
Measure Citizens’ Oversight Committee.

In order to preserve the integrity and independence of the oversight process. Committee
members will not play a formal role in contracting, project management, or any other aspect of
the Public Safety Measure funding.

The Committee is not charged with decision-making on spending priorities, schedules, project
details, funding source decisions (e.g. leveraged funds, developer fees, etc.), financing plans, or
tax rate assumptions. The Committee shall serve in an advisory-only role to the City Council.

The Committee shall have no jurisdiction other than that delegated to it by the People pursuant to
this Ordinance.

The City of Selma City Manager or his or her designee shall provide any reasonable
administrative or technical assistance required by the Committee to fulfill its responsibilities or
publicize its findings.

D.	Meetings

The Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall meet semi-annually (or as otherwise provided for in
approved or amended by-laws) with specific meeting dates to be determined by Committee
members. Citizens’ Oversight Committee meetings are subject to the Brown Act. Meetings must
be noticed and open to the public. Committee minutes and reports are a matter of public record,
and must be posted on a web site provided by the City. Additional meetings may be scheduled
by the Committee as necessary. All Committee members shall attend a training and orientation
session prior to the first regular Committee meeting.

Committee members are expected to attend all regular meetings. Failure to attend two
consecutive meetings may result in removal from the Committee at the discretion of the City
Council.

E.	Committee Operations

The Citizens’ Oversight Committee will select members to serve as Chair and Vice Chair of the
Committee. A City staff person will be appointed by the City Manager or his or her designee to
serve as Secretary. The Secretary will be responsible for preparing, posting and distributing
agendas and taking minutes at each meeting. Approved minutes shall be made available to the
public. Committee decisions, positions, findings and procedures shall require a simple majority
vote of those Members in attendance. The quorum requirement for any meeting shall be a
minimum of three (3) members.

F.	Vacancies

Committee members may be removed from the Committee only by the City Council for repeated
absence (see Section D above), for malfeasance, for failing to meet the qualifications set forth in
this Section or for inability or unwillingness to fulfill the duties of a Member. In the event of
removal, resignation, or death, the City Council shall appoint a person to fill the vacant seat.

G.	Miscellaneous

With the exception of those items specifically addressed in these Guiding Principles, the
Committee may draft and adopt its own standard procedures and by-laws by majority vote.

All Citizens’ Oversight Committee procedures and by-laws remain subject to review and
approval by the City Council. Citizens’ Oversight Committee reports and audits are subject to
review and approval of the City Council.

Section 2. EFFECTIVE DATE^ This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect 10 days following certification of the
vote by the City Council.”

Section 3. The City Clerk shall certify the passage of this ordinance, publish the same as
required by applicable law, and forward a copy of the adopted ordinance to the Board of
Equalization.



8

I, Melanie A. Carter, City Clerk of the City of Selma do hereby certify that the foregoing
Ordinance was introduced at the July 16, 2007, regular City Council meeting and adopted at a
regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Selma on the 6th day of August, 2007 by the
following vote, to wit:

AYES:	5	COUNCIL MEMBERS: Lujan, Avalos, Derr, Niswander, Tow
NOES:	0	COUNCIL MEMBERS: None
ABSTAIN:	0	COUNCIL MEMBERS: None
ABSENT:	0	COUNCIL MEMBERS: None

/s/Don Tow

Don Tow

Mayor of the City of Selma

ATTEST:

/s/Melanie A. Carter

Melanie A. Carter, CMC
City Clerk of the City of Selma

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

/s/NealE. Costanzo

Neal E. Costanzo, City Attorney

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the voters of Selma at an election held November 6, 2007.

Don Tow

Mayor of the City of Selma

ATTEST:

9

Melanie A. Carter, CMC
City Clerk of the City of Selma

Exhibit 1

Program Guidelines and Public Safety Expenditure Plan

Sales

Description	Taxes

Year 1

Both	Initial Police-Fire Headquarters work	211,500

Fire	Fire Engine & Equipment	400,000

Fire	Safety Equipment (Self Contained Firefighter Breathing	Apparatus)	7,500

Police	Implement Gang Enforcement (officer & equipment)	64,300

Police	Implement Drug Enforcement (officer & equipment)	64,300

Police	Expand City patrol staff (officer & equipment)	64,300

Police	Upgrade safety equipment (vests, radios, guns, tasers,	shot guns, etc.)	 46,000

_________Annual Total_______________________________________________________________________857,900

Year 2	Ongoing Measure S Public Safety Staffing Costs	189,108

Both	Begin to build & construct Police-Fire Headquarters	2,326,500

Fire	Hire & provide equipment for additional fire staff (2 firefighters)	160,000

Police	Implement Neighborhood Problem Oriented Policing team (3 officers)	198,525

Police	Expand police staff (detective & equipment)	70,175

Police	Upgrade police safety equipment (vests, radios, guns, tasers, shot guns, etc.) ___________47,700

__________Annual Total	  2,992,008

Year 3	Ongoing Measure S Public Safety Staffing Costs	612,961

Both	Contribute to Equipment for Police-Fire Headquarters	423,000

Fire	Expand firefighting staff -1 Fire Division Chief	87,500

Fire	Firefighter Training Equipment	50,000

Police	Expand Drug enforcement (1 officer)	68,275

Police	Expand police patrol staff (2 officers & equipment)	139,825

Police	Upgrade police safety equipment (vests, radios, guns, tasers, shot guns, etc.) ____________49,000

__________Annual Total	___________________________ 1,430,561

Year 4	Ongoing Measure S Public Safety Staffing Costs	922,721

Fire	Equipment for north fire station	50,000

Police	Additional School Resource Officer (officer)	67,000

Police	Increase police staff (1 patrol officer)	67,000

Police	Upgrade police safety equipment (vests, radios,	guns, tasers, shot guns, etc.)	49,000

_________Annual Total	  1,155,72?

Year 5	Ongoing Measure S Public Safety Staffing Costs	1,088,015

Fire	Hire & provide equipment for staff new fire station	(1	firefighter)	92,500

Police	Expand police patrol staff (officer & equipment)	76,000

Police	Upgrade police safety equipment (vests, radios, guns,	tasers, shot guns, etc.)	52,000

Police	Replace 10 police patrol cars	 348,000

_________Annual Total	1,656,515

Year 6 Ongoing Measure S Public Safety Staffing Costs	1,274,125

10

Fire	Hire & provide equipment for staff new fire station (1 firefighter)	102,500
Police	Expand police patrol staff (2 officers equipment)	154,000
Police	Upgrade Mobile Crime Data Reporting Terminals (30)	186,300
Police	Upgrade police safety equipment (vests, radios, guns, tasers, shot guns, etc.)	53,750
	Annual Total	1,770,675
Year 7	Ongoing Measure S Public Safety Staffing Costs	1,541,009
Fire	Upgrade firefighter safety equipment (Self Contained Breathing Apparatus)	40,000
Fire	Replace 2 staff vehicles	70,000
Police	Expand police patrol staff (2 officers, & equipment)	162,000
Police	Replace 10 police patrol cars	369,000
	Annual Total	2,182,009
Year 8	Ongoing Measure S Public Safety Staffing Costs	1,737,619
Fire	Upgrade firefighter safety equipment (Self Contained Breathing Apparatus &	85,000
	Personal Protection Equipment)	
Fire	Purchase Ladder Truck	700,000
Police	Expand police patrol staff (1 officer)	75,000
Police	Upgrade police safety equipment (vests, radios, guns, tasers, shot guns, etc.)	57,000
Police	Upgrade and maintain police patrol cars	380,000
	Annual Total	3,034,619
Year 9	Ongoing Measure S Public Safety Staffing Costs	1,866,998
Fire	Additional fire staff (1 firefighter & equipment)	98,000
Police	Expand police patrol staff (2 officers & equipment)	160,000
	Annual Total	2,124,998
Year 10	Ongoing Measure S Public Safety Staffing Costs	2,168,148
Fire	Additional fire staff (3 firefighters & equipment)	181,000
Police	Expand police patrol staff (2 officers & equipment)	173,500
Police	Upgrade police safety equipment (vests, radios, guns, tasers, shotguns, etc.)	60,500
	Annual Total	2,583,148
	Grand total	19,788,154

11