“To implement a community commitment to quality education by attracting and retaining experienced and high quality teaching and support staff,
improving teacher training in academic subjects, enhancing library services, and preventing additional cutbacks in instructional programs, shall the
Pacifica School District levy a special tax at the rate of $96/year per parcel beginning July 1,2007, for a period of five years, with an exemption for primary
residence available to individuals aged 65 and older?”

FULLTEXT

PACIFICA SCHOOL DISTRICT
SUSTAIN PACIFICA SCHOOLS ACT OF 2007

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Sustain
Pacifica Schools Act of 2007” or as “Measure Q”

TERMS OF

SUSTAIN PACIFICA SCHOOLS SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two thirds of those voting
on this measure, the Pacifica School District (the “District”) shall be
authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $96 per year on each parcel of
taxable real property in the District in each year commencing July 1, 2007,
for a period of five years, ending June 30, 2012. The Governing Board
shall cause the tax to be levied at this amount or at such lesser amount in
any year in which the Board deems such reduced amount sufficient and
appropriate to meet the District’s budgetary needs, or believes such
reduced amount is appropriate in reaction to State budget changes.

The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the
“Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007 Tax”. Proceeds of the tax shall be
authorized to be used to provide funding to attract and retain experienced
and high quality teachers and support staff, to improve teacher training in
core academic subjects, and to enhance library services, and to prevent
additional cutbacks in instructional programs.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior
citizens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65
years of age or older shall be exempt from the Sustain Pacifica Schools Act
of 2007 Tax upon proper application to the District. The exemption shall
be available pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the District’s
Governing Board or otherwise as required by law or by the San Mateo
County Tax Collector.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Sustain Pacifica
Schools Act of 2007 Tax, the Governing Board shall cause an account to
be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of
the Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007 Tax remain unexpended, the
Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall cause a report
to be filed with the District’s Governing Board no later than December 31
of each year, commencing December 31, 2008, stating (1) the amount of
Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007 Tax received and expended in such
year, and (2) the status of any projects or description of any programs
funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the calendar
year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent
shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual
budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the District’s
Governing Board. To insure additional accountability, an independent
community oversight committee of volunteers shall be appointed by the
Governing Board to oversee all expenditures funded by the measure, and
to advise the Governing Board regarding the proper expenditure of the
Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007 Tax proceeds.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007

Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

Appropriations Limit. The District’s Governing Board shall provide
in each year (pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the California Government
Code or any successor provision of law) for any increase in the District’s
appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds of the
Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007 Tax, and of all qualified special taxes
levied by the District, may be spent for the authorized purposes, and an
election shall be conducted by the District for such purpose only if required
by the general laws of the State applicable to school district qualified
special taxes. This provision shall be deemed to be declaratory of existing
procedures governing District expenditures.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007 Tax shall be collected by
the San Mateo County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the
same manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem
property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall
bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property
taxes until paid. The collection of the Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007
Tax shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of the District
in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the San Mateo County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s
Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are
levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from
the Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007 Tax in such year. Parcels owned
and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are exempt from the
Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007 Tax as described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the
District has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Sustain
Pacifica Schools Act of 2007 Tax as described above to the San Mateo
County tax collection officials. The San Mateo County Assessor’s
determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel from
taxation, other than through the Senior Citizen Exemption, shall be final
and binding for the purposes of the Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007
Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination
must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of
property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund
of Sustain Pacifica Schools Act of 2007 Taxes paid shall follow the
procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The District’s Governing Board hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and
clause of this measure has independent value, and the Governing Board and
the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every
other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters,
should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and
effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE

Q

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE

Q

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Pacifica School District
proposes to levy a special tax for a period of five years beginning
July 1, 2007 and ending June 30, 2012. This tax shall be at a rate not to
exceed $96 per year per parcel on all taxable parcels in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District
which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
San Mateo County tax collection officials. Any property owner aged 65
years or older may qualify for an exemption from the special tax if that
property owner occupies the parcel. All property which would otherwise
be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of
the tax.

The stated purposes of the special tax are for hiring and retaining
teaching and support staff, improving teacher training in core academic
subjects, enhancing library services, and preventing additional cutbacks in
instructional programs.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special account. An
annual report is required that accounts for the parcel tax revenues collected
and the manner in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied on
property within the boundaries of the Pacifica School District for a
period of five years beginning July 1, 2007 and ending June 30, 2012
in an amount up to $96 per year per taxable parcel. The special tax
would be used for hiring and retaining teaching and support staff,
improving teacher training in core academic subjects, enhancing
library services, and preventing additional cutbacks in instructional
programs.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be
levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.”

Educating Our Children for the 21st Century
Yes on Measure Q

Pacifica School District is almost dead last in funding per student in
San Mateo County. We’re 22 out of 23 school districts. Only East Palo Alto
is in worse shape. State-wide, Pacifica School District is in the bottom 11%
for funding.

The Pacifica School District (PSD) has cut $1.2 million out of the budget
over the past six years.

In order to prepare our children for a 21st century world, in an increasingly
technological world, we must develop dependable funding. We must
maintain and enhance science, math and library programs.

Measure Q means:

$96 per parcel, or $8 month, or about 25 cents per day.

Expires after five years.

Senior exemption.

Enhances math, science and library programs.

Helps attract and retain qualified teachers and support staff.

Helps prevent education cut-backs.

Provides for a Pacifica Citizens Oversight Committee to monitor the program.
Helps maintain small class size.

A bright spot: despite the funding shortfalls, PSD is an honored State of
California High Performing District.

The PSD made great strides in raising student academic performance over
the last 5 years. Student scores improved substantially - from 772 in 2002
to 820 in 2006 - placing Pacifica among “high performing” schools when
compared to the State average of 720 and the County average of 798. To
sustain this positive momentum, the District needs our help.

We must develop local funding-self help— for our schools. We cannot
depend on Sacramento for stable funding. Over the past three years,
billions of education dollars have been sidetracked by politics and
competing interests.

In this economy, students must master science and technology that did not
exist when we were in school. We have to do better for our students and our
community.

Please support Measure Q.

/s/	Karen Ervin  Pacifica School District Board Member	February 15, 2007
/s/	Eileen Manning - Villar  President, Vallemar Parent Teacher Organization	February 15, 2007
/s/	Ken Restivo  Ocean Shore Parent	February 15, 2007
/s/	Suzan Getchell - Wallace  Small Business Owner	February 15, 2007
/s/	Ernest C. Scott  Past President, Pacifica Friends of the Library	February 15, 2007

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q SUBMITTED

4