SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A
CROCKETT COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT

G^ITQOI;

Shall a resolution be adopted which will authorize the Board of Directors
to levy a special tax on residential parcels within the Port Costa area for
maintenance and operation of the District’s park and recreation facilities
and services within the District at not to exceed $50 per parcel per year?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF

SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A

The Crockett Community Services District (the “District") adopted
a resolution authorizing a special tax in the Port Costa area of the
District. The resolution, No. 06/07-f 8,'is effective if approved by two-
thirds of those voting on this ballot measure. The authorizing resolution
requires that the proceeds of this tax be used solely for the purposes of
improving, maintaining, and operating park and recreational facilities in
the District.

The authorizing resolution provides that a special tax of no more
than fifty dollars ($50.00) will be levied on each residential parcel in the
Port Costa area of the District. The special tax wifi be levied by the
District Board of Directors each fiscal year (July 1 through the following

June 30.)

The proposed tax is not based on the value of property. The tax,
if approved by the voters, will be on a parcel and use of property basis.
Under this measure, a “residential parcel" means a parcel on which any
building, structure or fixture exists, and that is intended for residential
occupancy, including a parcel consisting of a detached home,
condominium unit, cluster home, co-op apartment, town home, mobile
home, duplex, triplex, fourplex or other apartment building.

The District Board of Directors already levies a special tax for
recreation services on residential parcels in the Crockett area of the
District (formerly County Service Area P-1). If this measure is adopted,
the same special tax for recreation services will be levied on all
residential parcels in the District.

At least two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must
approve the measure in order for it to pass.

A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the special tax.

A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the special tax.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A

Crockett and Port Costa voted last year to form the Crockett Community
Services District (CSD) to provide sanitary sewer and recreation services

,2?

to both communities. Measure D was approved by 80% of Port Costa’s
voters, but the wording was later challenged as less than crystal clean
concerning payment of recreation taxes. While both Crockett and Port
Costa are now within the boundaries of our CSD and receive benefits
from its Recreation Department, it became necessary to conduct this
second election in Port Costa to obtain local consent for payment of the
same recreation tax that Crockett has been paying since 1986.
Correcting this deficiency will require a two-thirds voter majority in
support of Measure A.

In Measure D, it was widely understood that Port Costa residents would
begin to pay an annual assessment of up to $50 per residential parcel to
help subsidize the recreation services available to you. Port Costa was
expected to become a full partner in our new CSD, enjoying equal rights
and opportunities available to Crockett. Your vote in favor of Measure A
will confirm the equal partnership that was always envisioned.

Our CSD currently provides benefits to both communities. Whether or
not we individually use the swimming pool, tennis courts, bocce courts,
picnic facilities, play structures or community center, all residents and
property owners benefit from the availability and value of these facilities.
In the future, the CSD may be able to develop and maintain new
recreation programs and assets in Port Costa. Should the voters of Port
Costa not pass Measure A, our CSD would not be able to do so or to
consider Port Costa an equal partner with Crockett.

It is better for Port Costa and Crockett to pull together than to pull apart.
Vote to make Port Costa a full partner in the CSD by authorizing the
annual recreation assessment of up to $50 per residential parcel.

Bud Buriison, President, Crockett Community Services District

Steve Loveseth, Port Costa resident

Bill List, Port Costa resident

Katherine Shepard, Port Costa resident

John M. Mann, Port Costa resident

ARGUMENT AGAINST
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A

2

None filed.

Crockett Community Services District

EahiMA

FULL TEXT OF SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A

\

EXHIBIT B

RESOLUTION

NO. 06/07-18

A RESOLUTION OF THE CROCKETT COMMUNITY SERVICES
DISTRICT AUTHORIZING A RECREATION SPECIAL TAX IN THE
AREA OF THE CROCKETT COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
KNOWN AS THE PORT COSTA AREA

WHEREAS, Contra Costa County adopted Ordinance No. 86-24 in
1986, entitled “An Ordinance of the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa
County Proposing a Special Tax for Improvement, Maintenance and
Operation of Park and Recreation Facilities and Services in the area of
County Service Area P-1” (the “recreation special tax”); and

WHEREAS, Resolution No. 04-22 of the Local Agency Formation
Commission provides that upon dissolution of County Service Area P-1 and
concurrent formation of Crockett Community Service District (“CSD” or
“District”), the District is authorized to continue to levy and collect taxes that
were levied in County Service Area P-1 pursuant to County Ordinance No.
86-24; and

WHEREAS, the District Board adopted Resolution No. 06/07 -07
on July 26, 2006, imposing the recreation special tax in the area of the
District formerly in County Service Area P-1; and

WHEREAS, this resolution would authorize the Crockett
Community Services District to impose the recreation special tax within
those areas of the District that are known as Port Costa so that all
residential parcels in the District are taxed equally for maintenance and
operation of park and recreation facilities and services; and

WHEREAS, if approved by the voters by a two-thirds’ vote, the
recreation special tax would be imposed on the same type of parcels and
at the same rate at which parcels subject to the tax in the area of the
District that formerly was in County Service Area P-1 are already taxed,
and

WHEREAS, the District has the authority to impose the
recreation special tax pursuant to Government Code section 61121.

4

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of

Directors of the Crockett Community Services District does hereby adopt
this Resolution authorizing a special recreation tax in the Port Costa area of
the District, as set forth below:

ARTICLE I. PURPOSE AND INTENT. As authorized by
Sections 50077 and 61121 of the California Government Code, it is the
purpose and intent of this Resolution to authorize a special tax on secured
tax roll parcels throughout the area of the Crockett Community Services
District that is known as the Port Costa area, as more particularly described
in Exhibit A attached hereto (The “Port Costa Area”) in order to provide
funding for the improvement, maintenance and operation of park and
recreational facilities and services in the District.

This tax is a special tax within the meaning of Section 4
of the Article X1IIA of the California Constitution. Because the burden of
this tax falls upon property, this tax also is a property tax, but this tax is
not determined according to nor in any manner based upon the value of
property; this tax is levied on a parcel and use of property basis. Insofar
as not inconsistent with this Resolution or with legislation authorizing
special taxes and insofar as applicable to a property tax that is not
based on value, such provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code and of Article XIII of the California Constitution as relate to ad
valorem property taxes are intended to apply to the collection and
administration of this tax, as authorized by law. This tax is not an ad
valorem property tax; it is an excise tax on the use of property. Because
the revenue from the tax may be used only to fund the improvement,
maintenance and operation of park and recreational facilities, it is also a
special tax.

DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall

apply throughout this Resolution:

1.	"Parcel" means the land and any improvements thereon,
designated by a County Assessor’s parcel map, and parcel number and
carried on the secured property tax roll of Contra Costa County; it does not
include any land or improvements owned by any governmental entity.

2.	"Fiscal year" means the period of July 1 through the
following June 30, 3

3.	"Ad valorem property taxes* or "ad valorem real property
taxes" means taxes imposed pursuant to Division 1, Property Taxation, of
the Revenue and Taxation Code of California on secured roll real property
subject to being sold for delinquency of such taxes.

5

4.	“Improved parcel" means a parcel on which exists any
building, structure or fixture.

5.	"Residential" means an improved parcel intended for
residential occupancy, including (but not limited to) a parcel consisting of a
detached home, condominium unit, cluster home, co-op apartment,
townhome, mobile home, duplex, triplex, fourpiex or other apartment
building. The; definition of “residential” includes all parcels having
residential uses'regardless of whether in combination with nan-residential
uses.

ARTICLE HI. AMOUNT AND LEVY OF TAXES.

1.	Maximum.	The tax per year on each residential

parcel shall not exceed $50. There shall be no tax on parcels other than
residential parcels.

2.	Amount.	During each July, the Board of Directors

of the Crockett Community Services District shall levy taxes upon the
residential parcels in the Port Costa Area for the then current fiscal year in
an amount not exceeding the foregoing maximum per parcel.

3.	Lew.	The taxes levied on each parcel pursuant

to this Resolution shall be a charge upon the parcel and shall be due and
collectible as set forth in Article IV, below. A complete listing of the
amount of taxes on each parcel shall be maintained by the General
Manager and be: available for public inspection during the remainder of the
fiscal year for which such taxes are levied.

4.	Collection.	The General Manager is instructed to

prepare the special tax levy in accordance with this Resolution and to take
all actions necessary to collect the tax each year in the amount levied by
the Board during (or before) July of each year.

ARTICLE IV. COLLECTION AND ADMINISTRATION.

1-	ColfeSfe	The tax on each parcel shall be billed

on the secured roll tax bills for ad valorem property taxes and is to be
collected in the same manner in which Contra Costa County collects
secured roll ad valorem property taxes. Insofar as feasible and insofar
as not inconsistent with this Resolution, the times and procedures
regarding exceptions, due dates, installment payments, corrections,
cancellations, refunds, late payments, penalties, liens, and collections
for secured roll ad valorem property taxes (as established by Contra
Costa County) shall be applicable to the collection of this tax.

6

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary In the foregoing, as to this tax:

a.	The secured roll tax bills shall be the only notices
required for this tax, and

b.	The homeowners and veterans exemptions shall not be
applicable because such exemptions are determined by
dollar amount of value; and

The reasonable costs incurred by the County officers collecting and
administering this tax shall be deducted from the collected taxes.

2	AeessL Whenever the amount of any tax,
interest or penalty has been overpaid or paid more than once, or has
been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the District
pursuant to this resolution, it may be refunded as provided herein.

No refund may be made except upon a written claim verified by the
person who paid the tax or by his or her guardian or conservator or the
executor or administrator of his or her will or estate and stating the
grounds upon which the claim is made. All claims filed pursuant to this
resolution must be presented within one year after payment of the
amount for which the claimant is seeking a refund.

No order of a refund may be made until a written claim therefor has been
presented in accordance with this resolution. No suit for money,
damages or a refund may be brought against the District until a written
claim therefor has been presented to the District and has been acted
upon or has been deemed rejected by the District, in accordance with
this resolution. Only the person who filed the claim may bring such a
suit, and if another person should do so, judgment shall not be rendered
for the plaintiff.

ARTICLE V. ANNUAL REPORT The chief fiscal
officer of the District shall file a report with the Board of the Crockett
Community Services District no later than January 1 of each year
pursuant to Government Code section 50075.3, including the amount of
funds collected and expended and the status of any project funded by
the recreation special tax.

AWftCLE V., LEGAL CHALLENGE. Any legal challenge to
this resolution or to the recreation special tax adopted by this resolution
shall be brought as provided in Government Code section 50077.5.

7

ARTICLE VI. SEVERABLUJTY CLAUSE. If any article,
section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Resolution is for any
reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion of this Resolution. The voters of The Port Costa Area
hereby declare that they would have adopted the remainder of this
Resolution, including each article, section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase. Irrespective of the invalidity of any other article, section,
subsection, sentence, clause or phrase.

ARTICLE VIII. EFFECTIVE DATE. If approved by two-
thirds of the voters voting within the Port Costa Area in an election to be
held on May 8, 2007, this Resolution shall take effect upon the date the
vote is declared by the Board of Directors as provided in Elections Code
section 9141.

THE FOREGOING RESOLUTION was adopted at the District’s
Regular Meeting held on December 13,2006 by the following vote.

AYES:	Buriison,	Loveseth,	Mackenzie,	Rock

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Petty

Duane Buriison, President

ATTEST:

Kent G. Peterson
General Manager

8