ORDINANCE NO. 1043

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
CALEXICO ORDERING THE SUBMISSION OF A MEASURE TO
IMPLEMENT A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX (A SALES TAX)

IN THE AMOUNT OF 0.25 PERCENT TO THE QUALIFIED
VOTERS OF THE CITY AT THE SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 6,2007

WHEREAS, section 7825.91 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code authorizes
cities to levy a transactions and use tax (“sales tax” or “sales and use tax”) at a rate of 0.25
percent (or any multiple thereof) to be expended for special purposes, which transactions and use
tax is subject to the approval by a two-thirds vote of all the members of the City Council and by
a two-thirds vote of the qualified voters of the City voting in an election on the issue, and

WHEREAS, the City Manager has presented evidence that the City’s police, fire, library,
water, and wastewater facilities are in dire need of funding to complete upgrades and construct
new facilities; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit a ballot measure on a transactions and
use tax to the qualified voters of the City of Calexico at a Special Municipal Election to be held
on November 6, 2007.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Calexico as follows:

Section 1.	At the election to be held on November 6, 2007, there shall be submitted

to the qualified voters the following measure to approve Ordinance 1044 (attached as Exhibit
“A”) levying a transactions and use tax for special purposes:

III

III

III

III

III

III

III

III

Shall the ordinance to
improve facilities for police,
fire, library, recreation, and
specified public works	Yes

projects; to help fund the
project to cover the New

River; to revitalize	_______

downtown Calexico; and to
promote economic
development, by
implementing a 0.25 percent
sales tax for 15 years only. No
with annual audits by an
independent Citizen’s
Oversight Committee, be
adopted?_______________________________

Section 2. The measure shall be submitted to the voters of City of Calexico as
required by Section 53720 et seq. of the California Government Code, approved by the voters of
California in 1986 as Proposition 62; as required by Article XIII C of the California Constitution,
approved by the voters of California in 1996 as Proposition 218; and as required by Section
7285.91 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 3. The proposed transactions and use tax shall be imposed at the rate of .25%
for fifteen (15) years and shall then terminate, unless the City Council determines prior to that
date that the levy and collection of the tax is no longer necessary, in which case the City Council
has the authority to reduce the rate of tax or to terminate the imposition of the tax.

Section 4.	The proceeds of the tax created by this ordinance shall be collected and used

to repay the principal and interest on approximately $12 million in bonds issued to help finance
the following public projects: the New River tiling project, property acquisition for water and
wastewater treatment plant upgrades, construction of new police facilities, construction of new
fire facilities, parks and recreation projects, street and sidewalk repairs, economic development,
downtown revitalization, and library facilities improvements. The allocation of funds will be as
detailed in Exhibit “B” attached hereto, however, this allocation will be the minimum amount
that should be distributed to the listed projects. The bond proceeds will be dedicated to the
development, design, acquisition of real property, construction, operation, and maintenance for
all of the above-listed projects. Also, the bond proceeds will be used to repay the costs of debt
issuance. The term “development” is to include all land acquisition, permitting, architectural
design, engineering, construction management fees, construction costs, fixtures, furnishing and
equipment, and all other related costs and expenses. The plan also contemplates payment of the
costs associated with issuance of the bonds, from the bond proceeds, and the reimbursement of
all costs advanced by the City, prior to the issuance of the bonds. Specifically, as to the New
River tiling project, the bond proceeds will be used for the required matching grant money to
complete the environmental review on the project. As to water and wastewater, the bond

proceeds will be used to acquire property needed to complete the water and wastewater plant
upgrades. As for the fire and police departments, the bond proceeds will be used to develop new
fire and police facilities. As to parks and recreation projects, the bond proceeds will be used to
help develop the Armory and construct a new swimming pool. As to downtown revitalization,
the bond proceeds will be used for all aspects of improving the downtown area. As to library
improvements, the bond proceeds will be used to expand the parking lot and build new facilities.
As to economic development, the proceeds will be used to staff an economic development office.

Further, there will be established a Public Projects Citizen Oversight Committee, the
composition of which will be determined in the following manner: each member of the City
Council will appoint one member to the Committee. The Committee will oversee, recommend
and report to the City Council on the expenditure of the proceeds of the tax created by this
ordinance. Such oversight shall include the monitoring of the costs and expenses related to the
financing of the facilities and the design and construction of the facilities.

Section 5. The Council does not intend for the revenue generated by this tax to
replace any possible grant money that is available for these projects. If this tax passes. Council
wishes for the revenue to be used in addition to any grant funds for the projects. Council directs
City staff to continue to research and apply for any grants to help fund the specified projects.

Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect immediately as an ordinance relating to an
election, pursuant to California Government Code section 36937 (a), and as an urgency
ordinance necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety,
pursuant to California Government Code section 36937(b).

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Calexico, State of California, on
April 17th, 2007.

ATTEST:

Lourdes Cordova, City Clerk

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
CGRJNTY OF IMPERIAL ) SS
CITY OF CALEXICO )

3

I, Lourdes Cordova, City Clerk for the City of Calexico, California do hereby certify the
foregoing Ordinance No. 1043 was adopted by the City Council at a regular meeting held on the
17th day of April, 2007 by the following vote to-wit:

AYES:	Ouzan, Pacheco, Renison, Durazo

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Fuentes

Lourdes Cordova, City Clerk

4