VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

Containing
MEASURES C & D
CITY OF LAFAYETTE
TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2007

Arguments in favor of or against the proposed measures are the opinions of the authors.

LAFAYETTE

SETTLED 1848=INCORPORATED 1968

If you would like to receive this information in Spanish please call (925)
646-4166; if you have already requested voting information in Spanish,
the information will be mailed to you automatically.

Si desea recibir esta informacion en espanol, por favor Name al (925)
646-4166, si ya solicito informacion para votar en espanol, esta sera
enviada automaticamente por correo.

PARCEL TAX MEASURE C
CITY OF LAFAYETTE

In order to complete Lafayette’s road and drain reconstruction program
to expeditiously bring all public streets to a good quality and continue the
maintenance program, shall the City be authorized to collect a parcel tax
not to exceed $150 per year per equivalent residential unit, for thirty
years, with the City’s all-volunteer Capital Projects Assessment
Committee to review expenditures semi-annually to ensure they conform
with the purposes of the ballot measure?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE C

Measure C proposes to raise revenue to be used for road and
drain reconstruction and maintenance to all public streets by authorizing
a thirty year parcel tax on all taxable property within the City.

If approved, Measure C would assess a flat rate parcel tax on all
taxable properties within the City not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars
($150) per year per single family residential unit. The tax formula
establishes an Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU) for properties based
upon the density of the land use for multi-family parcels and the size of
the improvement for commercial parcels. All parcels will be taxed at a
rate not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150) multiplied by the ERU.
The parcel tax will be collected annually, commencing on July 1, 2007,
and will automatically terminate thirty years thereafter.

The proceeds from the Measure will be deposited into a special
account separate from the City’s General Fund and will be spent solely
for road and drain reconstruction and maintenance to public streets. The
Capital Projects Assessment Committee will be responsible for reviewing
semi-annually the expenditures of funds collected from the parcel tax to
determine whether the funds were spent in furtherance of Measure C.
An independent auditor shall also prepare an annual report for the City
Council indicating the amount of the parcel tax received and expended in
each year and the status of any project or description of any programs
funded from proceeds of the parcel tax.

The City Council adopted a resolution on March 12, 2007 calling
this election and submitting this Measure to a vote of the electors of the
City. Two-thirds of those voting on the Measure must approve the
Measure for it to pass. A “Yes” vote on Measure C is a vote to authorize
the City to assess the parcel tax for road and drain reconstruction and
maintenance to public streets. A “No” vote on Measure C is a vote

•	The City rents City offices because it is cheaper than purchasing
offices. There are no plans to purchase office space.

•	The new library’s location was discussed at many very- well-
attended public meetings.

•	Only one opposition argument was filed for Measures C and D.

Measure C provides the funds we need to bring all roads to a good
standard and Measure D tells the City Council that we want them to
continue their commitment to reconstruction, repair, and
maintenance. Please join us in VOTING YES ON BOTH MEASURES,
C AND D, TO FIX OUR ROADS!!

Ann Appert, Lafayette ESD Governing Board Member

Carol Federighi, Mayor, Lafayette City Council

Maeve Pessis, President, Lafayette Homeowners Council

Brandt Andersson, Councilmember, Lafayette City Council

Cheryl A. Noll, Resident of Lafayette

10

The City of Lafayette is 39 years old. They’ve never owned a
City Hall. Not even a shack. Owning a lavish City Hall in the center of
town is expensive.

Voters might approve a road tax but they wouldn’t approve a tax for
lavish new city offices. It costs money to keep plans for new city offices
secret.

In all appearances more money is needed to pay the media for
publishing the city’s side of stories. Do you think front page pro-tax
propaganda with photographs comes cheap? A local newspaper hired a
comical columnist to promote the accompanying tax measure.

Media bias costs money.

I’m not extremely serious about this “If measure’s entirely
meaningless outcome. I wrote a more convincing argument against the
accompanying tax measure.

A city employee who’s livelihood depends on keeping tax
advocates happy chooses what argument is published.

VOTE NO ON BOTH MEASURES.

Bruce R. Peterson * •

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
ADVISORY MEASURE D

Please vote YES ON MEASURE D! Road repair should be among the
City Council’s top on-going priorities and this measure, while advisory,
WILL send an important message.

The City has allocated an average of more than $1 million from the
General Fund to road repair during each of the past 10 years. The road
funding plan assumes that contribution will remain and Measure D shows
your support of that proposal.

Again, these are the facts:

• There is no hidden agenda concerning development around the
new library. The City Council recently hired a consultant to
assist in developing its Downtown Strategic Plan which will be
funded with Redevelopment monies (RDA) that cannot be used
on neighborhood roads.

® The City’s legal budget increases cover litigation expenses
associated with Palos Colorados (the large Moraga development
that will impact traffic), the “crosses”, and the Veterans Hall
easement.

against authorizing the parcel tax for road and drain reconstruction and
maintenance to public streets.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure C. If
you desire a copy of the Measure, which includes the ERU table, please
call the City of Lafayette at (925) 284-1968 and a copy will be mailed at
no cost to you.

Malathy Subramanian
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE C

YES! Together, we can DO this!

118 of Lafayette’s public roads are failed or failing. Failed roads reduce
property values, safety, and quality of life. We all drive on bad roads, but
4,000 residents must live on them.

Many of Lafayette’s roads and drains were built in the 1950s and 60s to
lower engineering standards than are used today. They have reached
the end of their useful lives and there is no viable repair other than
reconstruction.

In 1995, voters approved a bond measure that repaired arterial and
collector streets. The City maintained them subsequently. Measure C
will extend the road and drain reconstruction effort to the remaining
public streets and expeditiously bring all of Lafayette’s public streets to a
good condition while continuing maintenance on those streets that are
already repaired. Measure C funds are a necessary part of the plan to
pay for these repairs and will be combined with gas tax monies, the
City’s annual $1 million general fund contribution to road work, and
confirmed outside sources, to produce the $42 million needed to fix and
maintain all public roads. On-going funding sources are adequate to
maintain them.

Without Measure C, road quality will continue to deteriorate, ultimately at
an accelerating pace, and the repair bill will keep mounting. Your “YES”
vote is crucial.

The “bumpy road of life” should not apply to Lafayette streets. Well-
constructed and well-maintained roads enhance our property values, are
safer for drivers, bicyclists, and pedestrians, and significantly reduce
maintenance costs far into the future. Just as we all benefit when we

2

support Lafayette’s excellent schools, we all benefit from good city roads
and drains. It is a question of pay now or pay very much more—later.

We urge you to VOTE YES ON MEASURE C.

Anne F. Grodin, Former Mayor and Councilmember, City of Lafayette,
Past Citizen of the Year

Arthur W. Ronat, Lafayette Taxpayers Association
Maeve M. Pessis, Lafayette Homeowners Council
Carol Federighi, Mayor, City of Lafayette
Judy Carney, Trustee, Acalanes Governing Board

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE C

Read the fine print about debt.

THIS DEBT LASTS THIRTY YEARS. PAVEMENT MIGHT LAST TEN.

A fool would borrow money for thirty years to purchase temporary
things like vehicles and asphalt.

Many roads rebuilt with 1995 bond money failed within ten years.

Private and major roads receive no benefit from this tax.

Apartment units, taxed like mansions, aren’t likely to receive benefits.

After streets are rebuilt, many residents complain about
speeders.

Much of the cost of street repair goes to consultants and
inspectors.

Expect to be overwhelmed by pro-tax propaganda. The media
always acts like paid propagandists for tax increases.

The developer of Burton Ridge donated heavily to this measure’s
political campaign. He must want political favors.

If you’re foolish enough to expect some street to be repaired, don’t
get your hopes up. Projects in Lafayette are based on monetary favors.
The expensive landscaping and signal exclusively for The Lafayette Park
Hotel is an example. Hotel management gives politicians money. Now
they want to kick out the friendly old businesses near the hotel.

VOTING NO on Measure C is critical. Measure D is completely
worthless and irrelevant.

Seeing who’s pushing Measure C, it’s obvious they want money for
other purposes. They’re pushing this tax, while spending $40,000,000
for their lavish council chamber/library complex.

3

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
ADVISORY MEASURE D

If voters are foolish enough to vote themselves deeper into eternal
debt, here’s the city’s needs.

If seldom used streets like Carnino Colorados are resurfaced, people
will drive faster. Then the same people complaining about patched
pavement will complain about speeders. More police will be desired to
curtail speeding.

Pedestrians walk down the middle of Carnino Colorados. It will need
to be widened and have sidewalks installed for safety.

The city needs more money for subsidizing Little League, the
Chamber of Commerce, Town Hall Theatre and other special interest
groups.

Thank the Lafayette Taxpayers Association for having this ineffectual
advisory measure on the ballot. They join their fellow commissioners in
supporting every city tax measure that encourages eternal debt. Anyone
opposing eternal debt is blackballed by the LTA. Why isn’t this measure
binding? The LTA deserves to be paid.

A family filed a lawsuit because Lafayette’s contracted police broke
down their doors, pointed guns at small children and obscenely
threatened them with death. It’ll cost money to keep the court
proceedings out of the news.

There are many other things the City of Lafayette can do with
$1,000,000 or more, if voters are foolish enough to vote additional
money for road resurfacing.

I hope you enjoyed my free arguments. I won’t advertise or ask for
money.

This useless measure’s only purpose is to get people in the mood to
tax poor people out of Lafayette. If Measure C passes, rents will rise.

VOTE NO ON MEASURS C AND D

Bruce R. Peterson

ARGUMENT AGAINST
ADVISORY MEASURE D

The day this tax measure was announced the City of Lafayette
contracted a design consultant for $400,000. The next week the annual
legal budget ballooned to $472,000. The Council meetings with an
attorney attending are expensive. So are all the lawsuits.

The City Council held a series of meetings about the library’s
location. They were an extravagant farce. The council put on a show,
lied, fooled everyone, and placed the library where they’ve always
wanted City Hall.

8

million annually from the City’s General Fund for the road and drain
maintenance program. A “No” vote on Measure D is a vote advising the
City Council that the voters are not in favor of the City Council
appropriating at least $1 million annually from the City’s General Fund for
the road and drain maintenance program.

Malathy Subramanian
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
ADVISORY MEASURE D

Measure D is a valuable adjunct to Measure C because it allows voters
to indicate that they want the current and future City Councils to continue
the high level of financial commitment to road repair and maintenance
that Lafayette residents have insisted upon.

For the past 10 years, the City has committed more than $1 million
annually from the general fund for road repair. This represents a
substantial portion of total City spending on roads.

Measure D, while advisory, tells our current and future City Council
Members that residents consider spending on roads and drains to be a
high priority and that they expect Council members to respect their
wishes.

The funding plan to repair and maintain all public roads assumes that the
use of general fund monies will continue. By voting for Advisory
Measure D, voters emphasize this program’s importance.

The City budget’s roads investments can also increase with inflation;
Measure D does not limit City dollars spent on future roads repair.

Due to the advisory nature of Measure D, future City Councils would
retain the flexibility to adjust spending plans in the event that crises
occur.

Vote YES ON MEASURES C AND D!

Dan Bosshart, Co-Chair, Fix Our Roads

Donald Tatzin, Councilmember, City of Lafayette

Carol T. Singer, Parks, Trails & Recreation Commissioner

7

The City Council has the final word on where this measure’s windfall
is spent. I’ve witnessed Lafayette’s politicians practice deception. I
expect more deception.

THE TRUTH IS, THIS MEASURE PROMOTES ETERNAL DEBT.
VOTE NO

Bruce R. Peterson

ARGUMENT AGAINST
PARCEL TAX MEASURE C

IT’S SPENDING PRIORITIES

Lafayette’s government is spending $40 Million for a council
chamber/library complex. City Offices may be added.

They just rebuilt all of the major streets, purchased a new fleet of
vehicles and spent fortunes on landscaping projects. Those aren’t signs
of poverty.

During their fraudulent library site search, every location prohibiting
administration was omitted.

Council chose a library site on Rosedale Avenue and made an offer.
Then the entire Council claimed there were people who didn’t want a
library there. I couldn’t find one Rosedale resident opposing a library.
Can you?

The council’s cronies, including the city commissioners, calling
themselves the Lafayette Taxpayers Association, swallowed the lies
without a word. They will be vocal supporters of this tax.

The Capitol Projects Assessment Committee will be made up of
the council’s cronies.

Most people avoid council meetings and rely on the media.

They evade printing the humiliating truth about Lafayette’s lawsuits and
policies. The obliging press always appears to be paid propagandists.

Tax opponents can’t compete financially with developers,
consultants and contractors who support self-beneficial tax increases like
this.

Boyer Circle is an example of contractor’s shoddy work. It was
rebuilt with 1995 bond money. Twice! It’s likely to fall apart again before
the first rebuild is paid.

Lafayette’s highly publicized General Fund is about one third of All
Revenues and Expenditures. The taxpayer subsidized Chamber of
Commerce publishes a deceptively low figure annually.

If you love wasting money, shoddy projects, false excuses,
media bias, lying politicians and their obedient crony commissioners,
you’re in luck.

4

How brilliant to sneak the words about bonds and debt in fine print.
Thirty years of tax could be spent decades before it’s collected. Then
they’ll ask for more.

THIS MEASURE PROMOTES ETERNAL DEBT
Thanks for Voting No

Bruce R. Peterson * •

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
PARCEL TAX MEASURE C

Don’t let opposition arguments divert your attention. It’s time to fix
Lafayette’s failed roads and to ensure proper maintenance of all of our
public roads for the foreseeable future. Many roads are in bad condition
and without MEASURE C they will just get worse. Please help by voting
YES on MEASURE C!

Here are the facts:

•	The City Council in not putting City offices in the new library.

•	The City replaced a few worn out police cars, not a “fleet”.

•	Street landscaping near the Park Hotel was funded by a voter-
approved hotel room tax. Residents didn’t pay for it.

•	Many sites were considered for the new library. After substantial
citizen input, the site on Mt. Diablo Boulevard was chosen.

•	Capital Projects Assessment Committee members are
volunteers; many are civil engineers.

•	Boyer Circle was reconstructed in 1997. Subsequently, cracks
developed because the street is on a steep hill where the
unstable ground moves and a slurry seal was applied to fill these
cracks.

•	Money spent on the Veterans Memorial and the new library
cannot legally be used to fix neighborhood roads.

•	The Chamber of Commerce receives a small amount of support
from the City and, in turn, brings substantial value to the
community and merchants.

5

Issuing a bond provides the funds needed to fix the roads NOW,
before repairs become even more expensive.

Please join us in VOTING YES ON MEASURE C!

Dan Bosshart, Co-Chair, Fix Our Roads Committee for Measure C

Ann Appert, Lafayette ESD Governing Board Member

Carol Federighi, Mayor, City of Lafayette

Donald Lively, Lafayette Taxpayers Assn.

Ned Robinson, Former Mayor, City of Lafayette

ADVISORY MEASURE D
CITY OF LAFAYETTE

If the City is authorized to collect a parcel tax for Lafayette road and
drain reconstruction and maintenance, should the City continue its
current practice of augmenting funds designated for such purposes by
appropriating at least $1 million annually from the General Fund for the
road and drain maintenance program so that the program remains a high
priority?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
ADVISORY MEASURE D

Measure D is an advisory vote on whether the City should
continue its current practice of appropriating at least $1 million annually
from the City’s General Fund for the road and drain maintenance
program so that the program remains a high priority.

The California Elections Code authorizes the City Council to
pass a resolution ordering the submission of an advisory vote to allow
voters within the City to voice their opinions on substantive issues, or to
indicate to the City Council approval or disapproval of the ballot
proposal. The results of the vote are meant to be an indication of
general voter opinion regarding the ballot proposal and will not be
binding on the City Council.

The City Council adopted a resolution on March 12, 2007 calling
this election and submitting this advisory vote to a vote of the electors of
the City. A “Yes” vote on Measure D is a vote advising the City Council
that the voters are in favor of the City Council appropriating at least $1

6