VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

Containing
MEASURE B
CITY OF CLAYTON
TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2007

Arguments m favor of or against the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors.

/PIT? CF-CLAY.T&ar

/WwW	■';«W ^ -

If you would like to receive this information in Spanish please call (925)
646-4166; if you have already requested voting information in Spanish,
the information will be mailed to you automatically.

Si desea recibir esta informacion en espahol. por favor llame al (925)
646-4166, si ya soiidto informacion para votar en espanol. esta sera
enviada autorriciticamente por correo.

SPECIAL TAX MEASURE B
CITY OF CLAYTON

Shall a new Community Facilities District 2007-1 (Citywide Landscape
Maintenance District) be funded to replace the expiring District for a
period often years to operate and maintain public roadway landscaping,
trails system, open space weed abatement and related costs, with an
annual levy of a special tax in the initial amount of S196.77 per
residential parcel and per non-residential acre or fraction thereof, and
with an initial yearly appropriations limit of $850,550?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE B

Following an advertised public hearing on February 20. 2007. the
City Council adopted Resolution No. 06-2007 establishing the City of
Clayton Community Facilities District 2007-1 (Citywide Landscape
Maintenance), (herein "CFD"), the boundaries of which encompass the
entire City of Clayton. The purpose of the CFD is to pay for the costs of
maintaining public roadway landscaping, open space and trails, and for
operating and maintaining the Clayton Fountain. The public services
proposed to be provided by the CFD are itemized in Exhibit "A" to the
Resolution.

in order to pay for these costs and related expenses a special
tax is proposed to be levied annually in the following amounts;

A.	Residential Parcels;	S 196.77 per parcel.

B.	Non-residential Parcels;	S 196.77 per acre or

fraction thereof.

Further details regarding the above tax rates are set forth in Exhibit “B" to
Resolution 06-2007.

Each special tax rate may be increased annually by the City
Council in an amount not to exceed the most recent full annual
adjustment (April to April of the Consumer Price Index-All Urban
Consumers (CPI). San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose. California area,
base period 1982-84 equals 100). The determination (o apply any CPI
adjustment is not automatic and must be made by the City Council at a
regular public meeting thereof accompanied by a prior recommendation
of the citizens' Trails and Landscaping Committee. The annual increase
may not exceed 3% over the previous year's rate and the possibility of
any rate increase can not be considered until Fiscal Year 2008-2009.

1

The special tax will be levied annually for a period of 10 years
commencing with Fiscal Year 2007-2008 to and including Fiscal Year
2016-2017, and then will expire.

The new CFD replaces Clayton Community Facilities District
1997-1 which levied an annual special fax for citywide landscape
maintenance purposes the past 10 fiscal years and which tax
automatically ends on June 30, 2007. No further special tax can be
levied by CFD 1:997-1.

Resolution No.07-2007 was adopted by the City Council on
February 20, 2007 proposing an annual appropriations limit of
S850.550.00 (first year budget). The Resolution also called for a special
election to be held on June 5, 2007 for voters to determine whether the
special tax shall be levied, and if the appropriations limit for the District
(first year budget) shall be as stated above.

Passage of the special tax requires a favorable vote of two-thirds
of the votes cast on the measure.

Copies of all relevant reports, a boundary map of the CFD
(recorded in Book 81 of Maps of Assessment and Community Facilities
Districts at page 15. Contra Costa County Recorder’s Office), and
Council resolutions concerning the formation of the CFD are available for
review in the office of the City Clerk (925-673-7300).

This impartial analysis of the measure was prepared as required
by California Government Code Section 53327 and Elections Code
Section 9280.

Dated: March 9, 2007

J. Daniel Adams
Clayton City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE B

In 1997, Clayton residents voted to consolidate multiple landscape
districts thereby insuring a secure funding source for maintaining our
community’s front yard - namely our trails, landscaping and open space.
That district automatically expires this June and needs to be replaced to
once again provide reliable funds to preserve and enhance a key feature
of Clayton's distinctive character,

2

Three years ago, a group of your neighbors volunteered to serve on a
committee to analyze the district’s successes and shortfalls. Their goal
was to recommend to our community a new district that wilt replace the
one now expiring and establish priorities and proper levels of landscape
care. Measure B is the result of their efforts.

With your passage of Measure B, this group will continue to serve as the
ongoing district oversight committee advising the City Council and staff
concerning its annual budget and providing a public forum for citizen
concerns. The committee will further recommend priorities to address
current resource deficiencies and monitor these critical landscape
services that have always been funded through a special district tax.

We strongly believe keeping and improving the appearance and
condition of our trails, roadway landscaping, open space services and
annual weed abatement are essential actions that help shape Clayton's
identity and preserve our property values.

We deserve community scenery we can be proud of. We deserve the
increased safety and peace of mind that an adequately funded
landscape maintenance district will provide.

Please vote “yes’ on Measure B,

Daniel Richardson, Chairman, Yes for Clayton Landscape Maintenance

Gerard Michael (Mike) Fossan, President of Clayfon Business &
Community Assoc.

Robert W. Hoyer. Clayton's First Mayor

Jo Ann G. Caspar. Member of Landscaping & Trails Committee
Ed Moresi. Clayton Business Owner

None filed.

ARGUMENT AGAINST
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE B

FULL TEXT OF
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE B

EXHIBIT A
CITY OF CLAYTON
Community Facilities District 2007-1
(Citywide Landscape Maintenance)

DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES TO BE FINANCED BY THE CFD

The Services to be financed by the special taxes of the City of Clayton
Community Facilities District 2007-1 (Citywide Landscape Maintenance)
(the “CFD") shall include the Maintenance of:

A, Public Roadway Landscaping - which includes but is not limited to

the following improved rights-of-way:

Atchinson Stage Road - from Pine Hollow Road to Caulfield Drive

Black Point Place - center median island.

Caulfield Court - center median island.

Center Street - from Oak Street to Clayton Road.

Clayton Road - from the western city limits to the southern Marsh
Creek Road intersection.

Cul-de-sacs: landscaped areas at end of Ahwanee Lane, Wawona
Court, Tuyshtak Court, Antelope Court, Obsidian Court. Blue
Oak Lane, Falcon Place, Windmill Canyon Place,
Hummingbird Place, Raven Place, and Golden Eagle Place.

Diablo Parkway - from Marsh Creek Road to El Portal Drive.

Eagle Peak Avenue - from the east intersection with Oakhurst Drive
to just west of the Ohlone Heights intersection, and including
the west intersection with Oakhurst Drive,

Indianhead Way - entrance area at Oakhurst Drive

Indian Wells Way - both entrance areas with Oakhurst Drive, and
center medians up to Anizume Court and Jalalon Place.

Jeffry Ranch Court - center median island.

Keller Ridge Drive - to Golden Eagle Place intersection.

Lydia Lane - from intersection of Clayton Road to Lydia Lane Park.

Main Street - from Clayton Road to (old) Marsh Creek Road.

Marsh Creek Road - from the northern intersection of (old) Marsh
Creek Road to the eastern city limits.

Oakhurst Drive - from the western city limits to Clayton Road
intersection.

Peacock Creek Drive - from Clayton Road to approximately the

Pebble Beach Drive intersection.

Pine Hollow Road - from Atchinson Stage Road to Panadero Way.

4

Regency Drive - median entrance from Marsh Creek Road.

So. Mitchell Canyon Road - from approx, Del Trigo Lane to
Herriman Court intersection.

B.	Open Space and Trails - which include but are not limited to:

Publicly-owned creek-side, intra-community and open space frails
located within the boundaries of the CFD.

C.	Clavton Fountain - which includes but is not limited to:

Maintenance to the fountain itself, rock structure and all attendant
appurtenances, including the geyser and water pump system as well
as the surrounding public landscaped area located at east side of the
intersection of Oakhurst Drive, Center Street and Clayton Road.

Definitions

“Maintenance" means the furnishing of services and materials for the
ordinary and usual operation, maintenance and care of the public
landscaping and appurtenant facilities, including repair, removal or
replacement of all or part of any landscaping and appurtenant facilities
providing for the life, growth, health and beauty of the landscaping,
including cultivation, irrigation, trimming, spraying, fertilizing and treating
for disease or injury: the removal of trimmings, rubbish, debris and other
solid wastes; and the eradication of landscape pests, including but not
limited to vermin and rodents, ground squirrels, gophers, moles and wild
pigs “Maintenance” also includes the furnishing of water for irrigation of
the public landscaping, and the supply of electricity to operate the
attendant irrigation systems.

The foregoing services shall be provided through and by the City of
Clayton, either with its own labor forces or by contract with third parties,
or any combination thereof, as determined solely by the City of Clayton.

“Costs" means the costs and expenses directly or indirectly incurred by
the City in connection with the Maintenance described above. Allowable
Costs payable from special taxes of the District also include Ihe County’s
imposed cost to levy and collect the District's assessment through the
annual property tax bill, the City’s shared equipment and facilities
charges. City prorated overhead charges to administer and manage the
District and collect the special taxes, and District: reserve funds for
replacement and major repairs.

5

EXHIBIT B
CITY OF CLAYTON
Community Facilities District 2007-1
(Citywide Landscape Maintenance)

RATE AND METHOD OF LEVY OF SPECIAL TAX

A special tax will be levied annually on each taxable parcel of land not
defined below as an “Exempt Parcel" within the Community Facilities
District 2007-1 (Citywide Landscape Maintenance) (the “CFD”) and
collected in the same manner as ordinary ad-valorem property taxes or
in such manner as the City of Clayton City Council or its designee shall
determine, including City-originated billing of the affected property
owners.

Definitions
Taxable Parcels:

Exempt Parcels:

Residential Parcels:

Non-residential Parcels:

Special Tax:

Special Tax Formula

A. Residential Parcels:

Parcels of land within the boundaries of
the CFO that are not included in the
"Exempt Parcel" category listed below

Parcels of land owned by a public
agency, right-of-way parcels, schools,
hospitals, cemeteries. mortuaries,
libraries, parks, mineral rights, private
roads, pipelines, public parking facilities
and common areas.

Taxable parcels of land that are
classified as either single- family,
condominium, townhouse, multi-family
or rural residential parcels.

Taxable parcels that are not classified
as “Residential Parcels”.

The special tax allowed to be levied on
property within the CFD, calculated
pursuant to this Rate and Method of
Apportionment of Special Tax.

An annual special tax will be levied on
all Residential Parcels, as defined
above, at the per parcel tax rate shown
below For each fiscal year 2007-2008

through 2016-2017:

6

Residential Parcel Annual Special Tax
Rate: SI96.77

B, Non-residential Parcels:	An	annual special tax will be levied on

all Non-residential Parcels at the per
acre rate shown below for each fiscal
year 2007-2008 through 2016-2017:

Non-residential Parcel Annual Special
Tax Rate: $196.77 per acre or fraction
thereof, based on parcel size as shown
on the then-current County tax roll.

Duration of Special Tax Levy

The special tax will be levied annually for a period of ten (10) years
commencing in fiscal year 2007-2008 through and including fiscal year
2016-2017. After the ten (10) year duration has expired the special tax
may no longer be collected unless extended pursuant to applicable laws,
except that a special tax that was lawfully levied in or before the final tax
year and that remains delinquent may be collected in subsequent years.

Special Tax Escalator Factor

In fiscal years 2008-2009 through 2016-2017, toe special tax may be
increased annually by the Clayton City Council in an amount not to
exceed the full annual adjustment (April to April) in the Consumer Price
index - All Urban Consumers, San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CA
Area (Base Period 1982-84 = 100). This escalator factor is applicable if
determined to be necessary due to expected increases in the operational
and maintenance expenses attributable to the CFD. Such determination
shall be made by action of the Clayton City Council, which must occur at
a regular public meeting thereof accompanied by a prior
recommendation of the citizens' Trails and Landscaping Committee
established by the City Council in February 2006 (City Resolution No.
08-2006). In no event shall each annual special tax rate in any fiscal year
increase by more than three percent (3%) over the previous year.

Relationship to Special Tax of Community Facilities District 1997-1

An intent of the new Community Facilities District 2007-1 is to replace
the City's Community Facilities District 1997-1 that levied an annual
special tax for Citywide Landscape Maintenance purposes during the fast
ten years and which special tax automatically expires on June 30, 2007,
No further special tax can be levied by CFD 1997-1.

7