BEFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE

IN THE MATTER OF:

A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Lafayette,	)

Submitting to the City’s Voters a Measure Seeking	)

Approval of a Special Parcel Tax at the Special Election )
to be held on June 5, 2007 of One Hundred Fifty Dollars	)

per ERU, an Advisory Measure Making the Maintenance	)

Program a Priority, and Establishing Procedures	)	Resolution	2007-	11

in Connection with the Election____________________________)

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Lafayette (“City Council”) has evaluated the
City’s road and drain repair, reconstruction, and maintenance needs of public streets with input
from the public at a noticed public meeting on February 12, 2007 and March 12, 2007, to
consider calling a special municipal election on June 5, 2007 seeking voter approval of a
proposed special parcel tax to pay for road and drain repair, reconstruction, and maintenance;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code sections 37100.5, 50077, and 34050, the City Council is authorized to submit
to the qualified electors of the City a ballot measure on the question of a special parcel tax by
ordinance or resolution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Election Code section 9603, the City Council is
authorized to submit an advisory measure to obtain an indication of voter opinion regarding an
advisory ballot proposal; and

WHEREAS, the results of the advisory vote will in no mamier be binding on the City
Council; and

WHEREAS, Section 2(d) of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution requires an
election to be conducted before any special tax may be imposed; and

WHEREAS, the terms of approval, collection and use of the special parcel tax are
described and provided for in this Resolution along with an accompanying advisory measure
regarding the priority of the maintenance program, in accordance with all applicable laws; and

WHEREAS, based on all of the information presented at the February 12, 2007 and
March 12, 2007 meetings, both written and oral, including the staff reports, minutes, and other
relevant materials, the City Council finds that under CEQA Guidelines 15060(c)(2) and 15378,
subdivisions (2) and (4) of subdivision (b), this tax does not constitute a project under CEQA and
therefore review under CEQA is not required; and

WHEREAS, the Board has held a public hearing after due notice regarding the proposed
authorization of the special parcel tax;

MW 1 4

•XED

OHS West:260173325.2

1



NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF LAFAYETTE, AS FOLLOWS:

1.	Recitals. The City Council of the City of Lafayette (the “City Council”) hereby
finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are true and correct.

2.	Election. Pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIILA of the California Constitution
and Government Code sections 37100.5, 50077, and 34050, and Election Code section 9603, the
City Council hereby calls a special election to be held on June 5, 2007 and requests the Registrar
of Voters of Contra Costa County (the “Registrar of Voters”) to conduct the election, at which it
shall submit to the qualified voters of the City of Lafayette the measures set forth in Section 3
hereof.

3. Ballot Measures. The abbreviation of the proposed measures shall be as follows:

MEASURE: APPROVING A PARCEL TAX FOR LAFAYETTE ROAD AND DRAIN RECONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE		
In order to complete Lafayette’s road and drain reconstruction program to expeditiously bring all public streets to a good quality and continue the maintenance program, shall the City be authorized to collect a parcel tax not to exceed $150 per year per equivalent residential unit, for thirty years, with the City’s all-volunteer Capital Projects Assessment Committee to review expenditures semi-annually to ensure they conform with the purposes of the ballot measure?	YES	
	NO	

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY.		
If the City is authorized to collect a parcel tax for Lafayette road and drain reconstruction and maintenance, should the City continue its current practice of augmenting funds designated for such purposes by appropriating at least $ 1 million annually from the General Fund for the road and drain maintenance program so that the program remains a high priority?	YES	
	NO	

4.	Specific Purposes. The special parcel tax herein provided for, together with any
interest and penalties thereon, shall be used only for road and drain reconstruction and
maintenance to all public streets. Proceeds of the special parcel tax may be pledged to the
payment of bonds or other obligations issued by or on behalf of the City or the City of Lafayette
Public Facilities Financing Authority for authorized road and drain repair, reconstruction, and
maintenance purposes to all public streets.

5.	Accountability Measures. The proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be
deposited in a special fund, to be created and maintained by the City. For so long as any

2

proceeds of the special parcel tax remain unexpended, the City Manager shall cause a report to
be prepared by an independent auditor and to be filed with the City Council no later than
December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2007, stating (1) the amount of special
parcel tax revenues received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or
description of any programs funded from proceeds of the special parcel tax. The report may
relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the City Manager
shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other
appropriate routine report to the City Council.

6.	Application. The special parcel tax shall be assessed to the owner of each parcel,
unless the owner is by law exempt from taxation, in which case, the tax imposed shall be
assessed to the holder of the possessory interest in such parcel, unless such holder is also by law
exempt from taxation.

7.	Imposition. The tax shall be levied each year, commencing in the fiscal year
2007-2008, on all taxable properties, improved or unimproved, within the boundaries of the City,
at the flat rate of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per year per Single Family-Equivalent
Residential Unit (“ERU”) for thirty years. Attachment A defines the specific categories of ERU
and is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

For purposes of this special parcel tax, “taxable property” shall be defined as any
unit of real property in the City which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes
from the Treasurer-Tax Collector of Contra Costa County. All property which is otherwise
exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the special parcel tax in such year. The Contra Costa County Assessor’s
determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel from taxation shall be final and
binding for the purposes of the special parcel tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County
Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of
property pursuant to section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other
applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of the special parcel tax shall follow the
procures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation
Code.

8.	Computation and Collection of Tax. The Administrative Services Director or
his/her designee or employee is hereby authorized and directed each fiscal year, commencing
with the fiscal year 2007-2008, to determine in accordance with Attachment A the tax amount to
be levied for the next ensuing fiscal year for each taxable parcel of real property within the City,
in the manner and as provided above. The Administrative Services Director is hereby authorized
and directed to provide all necessary information to the Treasurer-Tax Collector of Contra Costa
County to effect proper billing and collection of the tax, so that the installments of the tax shall
be included on the secured property tax roll of Contra Costa County. Unless otherwise required
by the City Council, no Council action shall be required to authorize the annual collection of the
special parcel tax as herein provided.

9.	Interest and Penalties. The special parcel tax shall be collected in the same
manner as ordinary ad valorem taxes are collected provided, however, that the City Council may
authorize other appropriate methods of collection of the special parcel tax by appropriate
resolution(s). The special parcel tax shall have the same lien priority, and be subject to the same

3

penalties and the same procedure and sale in cases of delinquency as provided for ad valorem
taxes.

10.	Election Procedures.

a.	Pursuant to Section 10400 and following of the Elections Code, the City
Council hereby requests that the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County consolidate the
election on the measures with any other elections as may be held on the same day in the same
territory or in territory that is in part the same. The City Clerk is directed to file a certified copy of
this Resolution with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County and the
Registrar of Voters of Contra Costa County on or before March 13, 2007.

b.	The election on the measures shall be held and conducted as provided for
herein. In all particulars not prescribed in this Resolution, the election shall be held as provided
by law for the holding of primary municipal elections in the City of Lafayette, and otherwise in
accordance with the Elections Code of the State of California, or as determined by the Registrar
of Voters in accordance with the Elections Code.

c.	The Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County is hereby requested to
permit the Registrar of Voters to render all services to the City as needed relating to the election,
and the City hereby agrees to reimburse the county in full for the services performed, upon
presentation of a bill to the City.

d.	The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cooperate with the
Registrar of Voters and to follow the procedures and meet all deadlines established by the
Registrar of Voters.

e.	At the next regular meeting of the City Council occurring after the returns
of the election for the measures have been canvassed and certified, the City Council shall cause
to be entered in its minutes a statement of the results of the election.

f.	The Resolution shall become effective upon approval of two-thirds of
those voting thereon.

11.	Arguments and Analysis.

a.	The last day for submission of direct arguments for or against the
measures shall be by 5:00 p.m. on March 13, 2007. Direct arguments shall be submitted to the
City Clerk. Direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred words and shall be signed by not
more than five persons.

b.	The period for submission of rebuttal arguments for or against the
measures shall begin on March 14, 2007 and shall end by 5:00 p.m. on March 23, 2007.
Rebuttal arguments shall be submitted to the City Clerk. Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed
two hundred fifty words and shall be signed by not more than five persons. Those persons may
be different persons than the persons who signed the direct arguments. 4

4

c.	Pursuant to Section 9285 of the Elections Code, when the City Clerk has
selected the arguments for and against the measures, which will be printed and distributed to the
voters, the City Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the respective measure to the
authors of the argument against, and copies of the argument against to the authors of the
argument in favor. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the direct
arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct argument, which it seeks
to rebut.

d.	The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of each measure, not
to exceed five hundred words, showing the effect of each measure, and shall submit the analysis
to the City Clerk by March 13, 2007.

12.	Placement on the Ballot. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to take
all steps necessary to place the measures on the ballot and to cause the measures to be printed
and shall act as the filing authority for arguments. The full text of this Resolution shall not be
printed in the voter pamphlet, and a statement shall be printed in the ballot pursuant to Section
9280 of the Elections Code advising voters that they may obtain a copy of the Resolution and/or
measures upon request made to the City Clerk.

13.	Notice. The Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to publish the consolidated
“Notice of Election; and Synopsis of the Measure & Notice to File Arguments”.

14.	Severability. The special parcel tax shall not apply to any person, entity, or
property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the City to impose the tax herein
provided. If for any reason any portion of this Resolution is found to be invalid, or if the special
parcel tax is found inapplicable to any particular parcel within the City, by a Court of competent
jurisdiction, the balance of this Resolution and the application of the special parcel tax to the
remaining parcels within the City shall not be affected.

15.	Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption by a
two-thirds vote of all of the members of this City Council.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED this 12th day of March, 2007 by the following vote:

AYES: Federighi, Anderson, Andersson, Anduri and Tatzin
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

Carol Federighi, Mayor

ATTEST:

\ 5

Aoanne Robbins, City Clerk

5

ATTACHMENT A

USE CODES	ERU	DESCRIPTION
11	1	Single Family 1 res on 1 site & duets
12	1	Single Family 1 res on 2 or more sites
13	1	Single Family 2 or more res on 1 or more sites
14	1	Single Family on other than single family land
15	1	Misc. improvements on 1 site
16	1	Misc improvements on 2 or more sites (trees & vines)
17	1	Vacant 1 site (includes PUD)
18	1	Vacant 2 or more sites
19	1	Single family detached w/common area
20	1	Vacant Multiple
21	2	Duplex
22	3	Triplex
23	4	Fourplex
24	1	Combination (single & double)
25	based on actual units	Apts 5-12
26		Apts 13-24
27		Apts 25-29
28		Apts 60+
29	1	Attached PUDs (condos, townhouses,co-ops)
30	1	Vacant Commercial
31	Based on improved square footage per County tax rolls: 0 - 1,000 = 1  1.001	-5,000 = 5  5.001	- 10,000 = 8 10,001 -20,000 = 10 20,001 -50,000 = 15  50,001+ = 20	Commercial stores (not supermarkets)
32		Small Grocery stores (7-11, Quickstop)
33		Office Buildings
34		Medical/Dental
35		Service Stations & Car Washes
36		Auto Repair
37		Community Rec (pools, etc.)
41		Supermarkets (not in shopping centers)
42		Shopping Centers
43		Financial Buildings
44		Motels
45		Theaters
46		Drive In restaurants
47		Restaurants (not drive in)
48		Multiple & Commercial
49		Auto Dealer
53		Light Industrial
55		Mini Warehouse
61	1	Rural Res (1 -10A)
62	1	Rural with or w/o Misc Structures (1-10A)
63	1	Urban (10-40)
64	1	Urban (40+A)
67	1	Dry Farming
81	0	Private roads
83	1	State Board Assessed
85	1	Public & Private Parking
86	1	Taxable Municipal Owned
87	1	CommOn Area parcels in PUDs
10	0	Vacant unbuildable