FULL TEXT OF MEASURE S
STANISLAUS COUNTY
ORDINANCE NO. 08-06

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE STANISLAUS COUNTY BETTER ROADS/SAFER STREETS PROGRAM

The Stanislaus County Local Transportation Authority does ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. TITLE AND SUMMARY. This Ordinance (also sometimes referred to as the “Measure”) shall be known as the Stanislaus County Better
Roads/Safer Streets Program Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance and provides for the imposition of a one-half of one percent retail transactions
and use tax by the Stanislaus County Transportation Authority for local transportation purposes' for a period of 20 years.

SECTION 2. PRINCIPLES.

2.1.	Purpose. For the purpose of maintaining and improving the quality of life in Stanislaus County, the Stanislaus County Transportation
Authority ("Authority’) has prepared and approved the 20 Year Countywide Transportation 1/2 Cent Sales Tax Measure Financial Expenditure Plan
2008 ("Financial Expenditure Plan” or “Expenditure Plan”) attached hereto as Exhibit A to accomplish the following:

2.1.1.	Improve safety and reduce congestion on local highways;

2.1.2.	Improve intersections and synchronize traffic signals;

2.1.3.	improve emergency response times for police and fire;

2.1.4.	Enhance student safety around schools;

2.1.5.	Improve travel along east-west corridors;

2.1.6.	Retrofit and replace bridges;

2.1.7.	Fill potholes, fix, widen and extend local roads; and

2.1.8.	Enhance Stanislaus County’s ability to secure state and federal funding for transportation by providing required local
matching funds.

2.2. Dedication. The one-half of one percent retail transactions and use tax is dedicated for transportation purposes including the
planning, design, right of way acquisition, environmental review and mitigation, construction, operation and maintenance of transportation projects,
improvements and programs located within Stanislaus County which cannot be used for other governmental purposes or programs of any kind.
This Ordinance contains specific taxpayer safeguards to ensure that ail funding from the Measure’s one-half of one percent transactions and use tax
is used in accordance with the specified voter-approved transportation project improvements and programs. These safeguards include:

2.2.1.	The specific projects and programs included in the Financial Expenditure Plan will be funded in part by revenue raised by the
transactions and use tax. The Financial Expenditure Plan can only be changed upon approval by the Authority.

2.2.2.	An independent Citizens Oversight Committee (“COC”) is created to supervise fiscal and performance audits regarding the
use of all sales tax funds and provide for independent review to ensure that all funds are spent in accordance with provisions
of this Ordinance and the Financial Expenditure Plan as approved by the voters. All audits shall be made public and the

•	Authority shall hold a public hearing on the results of all audits.

2.2.3.	This one-half of one percent transactions and use tax is for transportation programs only and is not intended to replace
revenues generated through locally-adopted development fees and assessment districts.

2.2.4.	The Authority will continue to seek maximum funding for transportation improvements through State and federal programs.
The Authority will not provide transactions and use tax revenue to any of the Cities or to the County unless all transportation
revenues currently used by that agency are continued to be used for transportation purposes.

2.2.5.	The expenditures for the salaries and benefits of the sales tax program are limited to no more than one percent of the funds
generated.

2.2.6.	A mandatory review of the Financial Expenditure Plan shall occur every year to ensure that the program reflects current
community needs as demographics, economics and technology changes.

SECTIONS. MANDATED TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS.

3.1.	Independent Citizens Oversight Committee (COC). No later than July 1,2009, an Independent Citizens Oversight Committee will
be established as specified in the Expenditure Plan.

3.2.	Administrative Costs. The Authority shall expend for administrative purposes only the amount of funds generated from the tax that
is necessary and reasonable to carry out its responsibilities for audit, administrative expenses, staff support, and administrative contract services.
In no case shall the funds expended for salaries and benefits exceed one percent of the annual net amount of revenue raised by the tax.

3.3.	Maintenance of Effort. The Authority, by the enactment of this Ordinance, intends the additional funds provided to the Cities and
County by this Measure are to supplement existing local revenues being used for street and highway purposes. Transaction and use tax revenue
shall not be used to replace existing road funding programs or to replace requirements for new development to provide for its own road needs.
Under this Measure, funding priorities should be given to addressing current transportation needs, easing congestion, and improving safety. The
Cities and the County shall maintain their existing commitment of transportation funds for street, highway and public transit purposes, and the
Authority shall enforce this provision by appropriate actions, including fiscal audits of the local agencies. The Cities and County receiving local road
improvement and maintenance funds pursuant to this Ordinance and the Financial Expenditure Plan shall lose that funding for one year if they do
not maintain levels of road funding, which shall be calculated on the prior three year rolling average basis.

3.4.	Competitive Bidding Requirements. The Authority shall comply with ail applicable federal and state competitive bidding
requirements for all revenues from the Tax which are expended pursuant to the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 4. DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply to this Ordinance, including its attachments:

4.1.	“The Financial Expenditure Plan” or “Expenditure Plan” means the 20 Year Countywide Transportation 1/2 Cent Sales Tax
Measure Financial Expenditure Plan 2008 (attached hereto as Exhibit A and adopted as part of this Ordinance) including any future amendments.

4.2.	“Cities" means the incorporated cities with the County of Stanislaus.

4.3.	“County” means the County of Stanislaus.

4.4.	“Authority” means the Stanislaus County Local Transportation Authority, a local transportation authority designated by the Board
of Supervisors pursuant to the Local Transportation Authority and improvement Act, commencing at Section 180000 of the Public Utilities Code.



O

SA

50/26

4.5.	“Tax” means a one-half of one percent retail transactions and use tax that is adopted pursuant to this Ordinance.

SECTION 5. USE OF PROCEEDS.

5.1.	Transportation Purposes. Revenues from the Tax shall be used for transportation purposes only and may include, but are not
limited to, the administration of this Ordinance, including legal actions related thereto and costs of the initial preparation and election approving
the Tax, the construction, maintenance, improvements, and operation of local streets, roads, and highways, state highways and freeways. These
purposes include expenditures for transportation planning, environmental reviews and mitigation, engineering and design costs, related right-of-way
acquisition and construction. Expenditures also include, but are not limited to, debt service on bonds and expenses in connection with issuance
of bonds.

5.2.	Limitation on Use of Funds. Upon receipt from the Board of Equalization, revenues from the Tax shall be divided into three
separate funds and be deposited in separate accounts maintained for each fund. The revenues shall be distributed as follows: (1) 1% to the
Administration and Planning Program Fund; (2) 49% to the Regional Capital Corridor Projects Fund; and (3) 50% to the Local Traffic Improvement
and Road Maintenance Program Fund. The revenues deposited in the Administration and Planning Program Fund shall be held and used solely for
the transportation purposes of administration as identified in the Expenditure Plan and this Ordinance and may not be used for any other purposes.
The revenues deposited in the Regional Capital Corridor Projects Fund shall be held and used solely for the transportation purposes of Regional
Corridor Projects as identified in the Financial Expenditure Plan and this Ordinance and may not be used for any other purposes. The revenues
deposited in the Local Traffic Improvement and Road Maintenance Program shall be held and used solely for the transportation purposes of the
maintenance and reconstruction of city and county streets and roads as identified in the Financial Expenditure Plan and this Ordinance and shall
not be used for any other purposes.

5.3.	Limitation on Loans between Funds. None of the three separate funds identified in subsection 5.2 may serve as a source of loans
to the other funds.

SECTION 6. BONDING AUTHORITY. Upon voter approval of the Measure, the Authority shall have the power to sell or issue, from time to time, on
or before the collection of taxes bonds or other evidence of indebtedness, in the amount at any one time outstanding of not to exceed the estimated
proceeds of the Tax, as determined by the Financial Expenditure Plan and to secure that indebtedness solely by way of future collection of taxes,
for expenditures consistent with the purposes set forth in Section 5, including the carrying out of transportation projects described in the Financial
Expenditure Plan.	-

SECTION 7. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. The annual appropriations limit established pursuant to this Ordinance in accordance with
Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution and Section 180202 of the Public Utilities Code shall be $500 million. The appropriations limit
shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law.

SECTION 8. OPERATIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall become operative on the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after adoption of this Ordinance but in no event earlier than April 1,2009.

SECTION 9. ELECTION.

9.1.	Call of Election. The Authority requests the Board of Supervisors to call an election for voter approval of this Ordinance which
election shall be held on November 4, 2008, and consolidated with other elections to be. held on that same date. The election shall be called and
conducted in the same manner as provided by law for the conduct of elections by a county. Approval of the Ordinance and the imposition of the
tax shall require the affirmative vote of two thirds of the electors voting on the proposition provided in subsection 11.2 at the election described in
this Section.

9.2.	Proposition. The proposition to be placed on the ballot shall read substantially as follows;

Better Roads/Safer Streets Program
Authorize a half-cent sales tax for 20 years, with ongoing citizens oversight, securing state/federal matching funds for countywide improvements,
including:

•	Improving safety/reducing congestion on local highways;

•	Improving intersections and synchronizing traffic signals;

•	improving emergency response times for poiice/fire;

•	Enhancing student safety around schools;

•	Improving travel along east-west corridors;

•	Retrofitting/replacing bridges; and

•	Filling potholes, fixing, widening and extending local roads.

YES________________________ NO_______

SECTION 10. EXPENDITURE PLAN AMENDMENTS.

10.1.	The Expenditure Plan as hereby approved may be amended from time to time pursuant to the provisions of the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 11. ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS.

11.1.	This Ordinance may be amended to further its purposes. The Authority shall establish a process for proposed Ordinance
amendments) which ensures that the Authority committees established by this Ordinance participate in the development of the proposed Ordinance
amendments).

11.2.	Upon completion of that process, amendments) to this Ordinance must be passed by a four-fifths majority of the Authority
by a roll call vote entered in the minutes of the Authority. Tne Authority must hold a public hearing on the matter before formal adoption of any
amendment to the Ordinance.

11.3.	In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree with the Authority’s amendments(s), the jurisdiction’s policy decision-making
body must, by a majority vote, determine to formally notify the Authority of its intent, in writing by registered mail, to obtain an override of the
Authority’s amendments). The appealing jurisdiction will have 45 days from the date the Authority adopts the proposed amendment(s) to obtain
resolutions supporting an override of the amendment(s) from a majority of the cities representing a majority of the population residing within the
incorporated areas of the county and from the Board of Supervisors. If a jurisdiction does not obtain the necessary resolutions supporting the
override, the Authority’s amendments) to the Ordinance will stand. If the necessary resolutions supporting the override are obtained within 45 days
from the date the Authority adopts the proposed amendments), then the amendments) shall not become effective.

SECTION 12. IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

12.1.	This Ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of Stanislaus, which territory
shall be referred to herein as “District” or “Authority”.

12.2.	Purpose. This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

12.2.1.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 180050 et.seq. of the Public Utilities Code which authorizes the Authority to
adopt this tax Ordinance which shall be operative if a two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of
the tax at an election called for that purpose.

12.2.2.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and
Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

12.2.3.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can
be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

12.2.4.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a manner which will be, to
the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this Ordinance.

12.3.	Contract With State. Prior to the operative date, the Authority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform
all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

12.4.	Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers
in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the District at the rate of one-half of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.

12.5.	Place Of Sale. For the purpose of this Ordinance all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common earner for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more
than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

12.6.	Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the Authority of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of one-half of one percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

12.7.	Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law. Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth
herein.

12.8.	Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

12.8.1.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this Authority shall be
substituted therefore. However, the substitute on shall not be made when:

(a)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State
Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

(b)	The	result	of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this Authority or any agency, officer, or

employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to
the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

(c)	In	those	sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State

of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

i.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

ii.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not be subject to tax by the State under the said provisions of that code;

(d)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

12.9.	The word “District” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in
Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

12.10.	Permit Not Required. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

12.11.	Exemptions And Exclusions.

12.11.1.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use
tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law
or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

12.11.2.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

(a)	Sales	of	tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or

consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such

Stanislaus 50 / 28

aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or
any foreign government.

(b)	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped to a point outside the District, pursuant to the
contract of sales, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall

be satisfied:

i.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing

with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9850) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-District address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his principal place of residence; and

ii.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-District and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(c)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(d)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which
the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this.
Ordinance.

(e)	For the purpose of subparagraph (c) and (d) of this subsection, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall
be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or; lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

12.11.3.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this District
of tangible personal property:

(a)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance.

(b)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States,
or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Section 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

(c)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

(d)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease
which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(e)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (c) and (d) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of,
or exercise of any right of power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to
a contract of lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(f)	Except as provided in subparagraph (g) of this subsection, a retailer engaged in business in the District shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the District or participates within the District in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited
to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the district or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority of the
retailer.

(g)	“A retailer engaged in business in the District” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.

12.11.4.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the
use tax.

12J2. Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
Ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

12.13.	Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the Authority, or against any officer of the State or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

12.14.	Effective Date. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the District transactions and use taxes and shall take
effect immediately.

12.15.	Termination Date. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall expire twenty years from the operative date of
this Ordinance.

SECTION 13. SEVERABILITY. If any tax or provision of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, that holding shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining taxes or provisions, or the existing tax, and the Authority
declares that it would have passed each part of this Ordinance irrespective of the validity of any other part.

fi.4KCK!ll*?*ii~*T In ftcgixxn-tzl F{dn?tinjg

EXHIBIT A

20-YEAR COUNTYWIDE TRANSPORTATION
% CENT SALES TAX MEASURE
FINANCIAL EXPENDITURE PLAN

The Stanislaus County i/2 Cent Transportation Sales Tax Financial Expenditure Plan (Expenditure Plan), was prepared to: Guide more than $700 million in transportation
fund expenditures generated through the approval of a Stanislaus County Vz cent Transportation Sales Tax, over the next 20 years, if approved by voters in the November
2008 election. The Expenditure Plan, developed by the Stanislaus Council of Governments (StanCOG) and fen member agencies (Ceres, Hughson, Modesto, Newman,
Oakdale, Patterson, Riverbank, Turlock, Waterford and Stanislaus County) representing diverse community interests, will address major transportation needs in Stanislaus
County through the Year 2029 with the initiation of a Vz cent sales tax. StanCOG considered established local and regional needs, and obtained input from all of the
City/County member agencies. To ensure the Expenditure Plan addressed transportation needs of all County residents, the Stanislaus Council of Governments: adhered to
requirements contained in the Public Utilities Code. 180000 ef seq; reviewed other transportation sales tax measure programs recently passed in other counties (best
practices review); and reviewed established transportation needs in Stanislaus County’s Regional Transportation Plan (RTP).

Overview - Expenditure Plan: Where the money will go

The funding programs include Local Traffic Improvement and Road Maintenance, Regional Capital Corridor Projects and Administration. The formulas and breakdown of the
expenditures were approved by the Stanislaus Council of Governments Policy Board, all nine City Councils and the Stanislaus County Board of Supervisors, The proposed
20 Year Transportation Measure is expected to generate approximately $700 million. 49% of this amount is allocated for Regional Capital Corridor Projects.

These projects are included In the adopted Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) approved by all member agencies in Stanislaus County, The purpose of the RTP is to
present a long-range plan for our transportation system that is built on public consensus and reflective of our region’s unique nature. The RTP includes an assessment of
overall growth and economic trends in the region and provides strategic direction for transportation capital investments. The remaining Expenditure Plan allocations consider
the many diversified transportation needs of Stanislaus County and have the following components, as shown:

•	50%	of the expected Transportation Measure funds are allocated to “Local Programs”. Due to the diverse needs of the Cities and the County, the Local

Programs category was created. The Local Programs category allows each of the member agencies to develop a priority list of projects based on community
needs. This allows each jurisdiction, flexibility to determine local needs, This category will allow funding for projects ranging from “pot-hole repair”, road
rehabilitation, new roadway sections to transit enhancements.

•	The remaining 1 % of the total expected Transportation Measure funding is directed to program implementation activities.

Details regarding the implementation of each of

Responding to Community Values

Two-thirds (66.67%) voter approval is necessary to pass the Transportation Measure in November 2008. In order to determine that the Stanislaus Council of Governments
had crafted a supportable Expenditure Plan framework, each City Council and the Stanislaus County Board of Supervisors were asked to review the framework and decide
whether it would appeal to their jurisdictions. After review, all ihe City Councils and the County Board of Supervisors endorsed the proposed Expenditure Plan framework to
impose a half cent sales tax for transportation improvements in Stanislaus County.

Meeting the needs of Stanislaus County residents requires leveraging State and Federal expenditures with local resources. Even with passage of the Transportation
Measure there will not be enough funding available to address the more than $1.5 billion in transportation needs. The Transportation Measure will generate approximately
$700 million over the next 20 years to address a portion of this need. Therefore, leveraging additional federal and state dollars, beyond what the region expects, is critical.
Most State and Federal grants require a match. Agencies that pass transportation sales tax measures are referred to as “Self-Help” and can generate the revenues for a
match. Similar measures throughout ihe Valley and California have been Very successful in this regard. Such measures have been viewed as the most important
transportation programs ever approved by voters in those counties. Stanislaus County needs to become a “Self-Help” County. The Cities, the County of Stanislaus, and
StanCOG worked together to develop the Expenditure Plan categories and distribution of funding, and ihe list of Regional Capital Corridor projects and local Traffic
Improvement and Road Maintenance projects. Regional Projects were based on the adopted RTP approved by all agencies. The Expenditure Plan responds to the following
identified community values: maintaining a vibrant economy, improving the quality of our air, local control of measure funds, leveraging matching funds from Federal and
State sources, and having a Measure Citizens Oversight Committee.

Stanislaus County Transportation Authority
The Stanislaus Council of Governments (StanCOG) is designated by the Stanislaus County Board of Supervisors as the Stanislaus County Local Transportation Authority
(Authority), pursuant to the provisions of Public Utilities Code Section I, Division 19 commencing with Section 180050.

StanCOG Board Members

Fiscal Year 2007 -2008

City of Ceres - Anthony Caneila; City of Hughson - Henry Nesting: City of Modesto - Brad Hawn; Gift/ of Modesto - Janice Keating; City of Modesto - Jim Ridenour; City of
Newman - John Fantazia; City of Oakdale - Farrell Jackson; City of Patterson - Becky Campo; City of Riverbank - Chris Crifasi; City of Turlock - Ted Howze; City of
Waterford - William Broderick; Stanislaus County - Jim DeMartini: Stanislaus County - Jeff Grover, Stanislaus County - Dick Monteith; Stanislaus County - Tom Mayfield;
Stanislaus County - William O'Brien; Caltrans (Ex-Officio) - Ken Baxter, District 10

Annual Audit of Transportation Measure Programs

The Transportation Measure expenditures and accounts of the local .agencies and the Authority will be audited on an annual basis by i
the Authority. Appendix A provides additional detail regarding the Transportation Measure audit process.

Citizen Oversight

To inform the public and to ensure that the Transportation Measure revenues and expenditures are spent as promised to the public, a Citizens Oversight Committee will be
formed by the Authority as part of the new Transportation Measure. Details regarding the Committee are provided in Appendix B.

Expected Measure Revenues

If voters approve the Transportation Measure in November 2008, they will allow the Authority to impose a 'k cent retail transaction and use tax for 20 years (between April 1,
2009 and March 31, 2029). The Transportation Measure Sales Tax will: Provide approximately $700 million in new revenues for transportation improvements according to
financial projections through the year 2029. This estimate considers current sales tax receipts (with no growth rate in sales tax proceeds) through March 2029. Since the
project funding is shown in current dollars, the projected revenues are shown in current dollars. The allocation of projected sales tax revenues to specific types of
transportation funding programs and improvement projects is described in the following sections of this Expenditure Plan. A StrategicAWork Plan detailing current
transportation projects will be updated every two (2) years to adjust the projection of sales tax receipts, ensuring that the projections are consistent with future expenditures
and promises made in this initial Expenditure Plan. The Authority will have the option of issuing bonds to deliver Transportation Measure projects and programs contained in
this Expenditure Plan to reduce project costs by delivering them earlier.

Elements of the New. Plan: What We Will Do
Through intense discussion and hard work, the following Transportation Measure funding program commitments were developed by the Stanislaus Council of Governments
and member agencies. StanCOG realized that providing funds for both local and regional projects would meet the quality of life intent of the new Transportation Measure.
This would in turn enable agencies within Stanislaus County to address the needs of residents, businesses, and major industries over the 20-year life of the Transportation
Measure. The Expenditure Plan will: provide for local road improvements and regional capital projects that improve mobility and air quality within the County and each of the
' 9 cities.

LOCAL TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT AND ROAD MAINTENANCE PRQGRAM-50% or approximately $350 Million

The goal is to Improve each individual City’s and the County’s local transportation systems.

50% or approximately $17.5 million a year has been guaranteed for local determined projects. Each City and the County will receive funding based on a
formula using population and sales tax generated in each jurisdiction. The funding will help cities and the County to meet scheduled maintenance needs,
rehabilitate aging transportation systems, construct bike-ways, provide street enhancements and transit enhancements.

Pothole repair; Separate street traffic from rail traffic; Bike Paths; Bridge repair or replacement; Streetscape; Repave streets; Transit Enhancements;

Improve sidewalks; Traffic signals; Add additional lanes to existing streets and roads.

The local agencies in Stanislaus County know what their needs are arid how best to address those needs. However, it is difficult to accurately identity 20 years of
local transportation improvements upfront. Conditions in each of the 9 Cities and the unincorporated areas of. Stanislaus County may change over the next 20
years and the locations and kind of improvements need to match these changes. As an example, a jurisdiction may want to provide street enhancements based
on planned expansion; while another jurisdiction may have more road deterioration needs which must be addressed immediately. This could require pavement
overlays or even full road construction; therefore, the local Traffic Improvement and Road Maintenance Program needs to be flexible in order for each jurisdiction
to prioritize and address their individual needs. Funds can be used for ail phases of project development and implementation.

REGIONAL CAPITAL CORRIDOR PROJECTS (Regional Transportation Program) 49% or approximately $343 MILLION
Authorizes major new projects to:

Improve regional mobility and reduce congestion; improve and reconstruct major commute corridors; Improve freeway interchanges; Add additional lanes
Increase safety.

2

These projects provide for the movement of goods, services, and people through Stanislaus County. Major highlights of this Regional Transportation Program
include the funding of 3 Regional Capital Corridors in the County. The 3 Corridors identified provide both east/west and north/south mobility improvements. The
Corridors have been designated as: (1) North Corridor, (2) Central Corridor and (3) Southern Corridor. Funds can be used for all phases of project development

and implementation. These projects will be buiit in phases, but are expected to be completed within the life of the Transportation Measure. This funding program

requires matching funds from Federal sources and from the State Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) administered locally through the Authority.

ADMINISTRATION AND PLANNING PROGRAM -1% or approximately $7 million

Transportation Measure funding is provided to the Authority to:

-Prepare StrategicAVork Plan updates
3 -Develop funding allocation requirements

-Administer and conduct specified activities identified
in the two (2) programs described above
-Prepare Annual Transportation Measure Report and
contract for an independent audit

Expenditure Plan Projects

This section identifies local and regional capital project improvements to be implemented over the life of the Measure or by the year 2029. The projects would be funded with
Transportation Measure, State Transportation Improvement Program (STIP), and/or other transportation funding. The projects to be addressed in the “Local Traffic
Improvement and Road Maintenance Program” are included in Tables 1 and 2. These tables list improvements that the jurisdictions have currently identified for this program.
Regional Capital Corridor projects are included in Table 3. These regional projects will be funded using: Measure funding (approximately $343 million); a portion of State

Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) funding expected over the 20-year period is projected to support these projects; other sources including local contributions and
Federal transportation funding is also anticipated to complete these projects. T <’ '-natation of the Sfrategic/Work Plan Updates, the Alwill develop ^ f-toiled

Sts

0 /"3T

improvement program that specifies the timing and delivery of projects or funding order considering project cost benefit, project readiness, and funding availability. A
description of funding commitments and guidelines for local roads and the Regional Capital Corridor Projects are provided in Appendix A,

TABLE!

LOCAL TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT AND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM FUNDING DISTRIBUTION

(1)	(2)	(3)	(4)	(5)	(6)	(7)	(8)	(9)
Jurisdiction	Taxable Sales (2005) (inlOOO’s)	Sales Tax Share  (%)	Allocation Based On Sales Tax Only ($)	Population  (1/1/2007)	Population  Share  (%)	Allocation Based On Population Only  ($)	Base Funding to Cities Established Using 98% of the Greater of Sales Tax or Population Percentage  (S)	Annual Base Funding Using 98% of the Greater of Sales Tax or Population Percentages ($)
Ceres	426,056	5.85%	20,475,000	41,997	8.05%	28,186,068	27,622,347	1,381,117
Hughson	52,155	0.72%	2,520,000	6,082	1.17%	4,081,903	4,000,265	200,013
Modesto	2,748,009	37.72%	132,020,000	209,174	40.11%	140, 386,042	137,578,322	6,878,916
Newman	44,804	0.61%	2,135,000	10,302	1.98%	6,914,134	6,775,851	338,793
Oakdale	311,884	4.28%	14,980,000	18,628	3.57%	12,502,085	14,680,400	734,020
Patterson	103,342	1.42%	4,970,000	20,875	4.00%	14,010,148	13,729,945	686,497
Riverbank	128,245	1.76%	6,160,000	21,492	4.12%	14,424,244	14,135,759	706,788
Turlock	1,024,325	14.06%	49,210,000	69,321	13.29%	46,524,429	48,225,800	2,411,290
Waterford	30,958	0.42%	1,470,000	8,590	1.65	5,765,134	5,649,831	282,492
Subtotal Cities	4,869,778			406,461			272,398,519	13,619,926
County	2,416,122	33.16%	116,060,000	115,036	22.06%	77,205,813	77,601,481	3,880,074
TOTALS	7,285,900	100.00%	350,000,000	521,497	100.00%	350,000,000	350,000,000	17,500,000

Notes

1.	Population is based on California Department of Finance 2007 Annual Estimate.

2.	Sales Tax Transactions based on 2005 California Board of Equalization Taxable Sales in thousands.

3.	Total “Local Traffic Improvement and Road Maintenance Program distribution based on 50% of estimated total Transportation Measure Revenues.

4.	Program funding distributions to each city are based on using 98% of the greater ot Sales Tax amounts shown in column 4 compared to Population amounts
shown.in column 7. The funding distribution provided to the County is the amount remaining after City distributions have been provided.

5.	Total funding of this Program to be distributed to each jurisdiction over 20 years is based on column (8).

6.	Total Annual Distribution provided to each jurisdiction is based on column (9).

TABLE. 2

LOCAL TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT AND BOAP MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
PROJECT LISTINGS BY JURISDICTION

Project	Description	Total
Mitchell/Service Interchange Improvements	Interchange Improvement	$10,000,000
Mitchell @ Service	Entryway Treatment and Signage	
Mitchell @ Bridge	Entryway Treatment and Signage	
Hatch @ Faith Home	Entryway T reatment and Signage	
Hatch @ Herdon	Entryway Treatment and Signage	
Whitmore ® 4’	Entryway Treatment and Signage	
Whitmore exit @ Whitmore Park	Entryway Treatment and Signage	
Whitmore @ RR tracks, Service east of Crows Landing	Entryway Treatment and Signage	
Subtotal of Entry way Treatment & Signage Projects		$2,100,000

Alleys -- Angie Mitchell, 6" St., 5” St., 4'" St. 3rth St., 2™ St., Central Ave., Magnolia St. Poplar St., Grandview Ave., Hatch Rd., Belmont Ave. Herndon Rd.	Road, Alley, Sidewalk Improvements Road, Alley, Sidewalk Improvements Road, Alley, Sidewalk Improvements Road, Alley, Sidewalk Improvements Road, Alley, Sidewalk Improvements Road, Alley, Sidewalk Improvements	
Subtotal of Road, Alley & Sidewalk Improvement Projects		$5,500,000
Landscaped Medians	Landscaped Medians	$2,300,000
Roeding Road, Bridge, Overlay, Mitchell/Canal	Road Improvements	$1,500,000
Right Turn Lane Mitchell to Whitmore	Road Improvements	$500,000
Reconstruct/Overlay Whitmore, Faith Home/Central	Road Improvements	$1,000,000
Reconstruct/Overlay 10'", Magnolia to Whitmore	Road Improvements	$250,000
Rockefeller Dr., Foundry Dr.,	Slurry Seal	
Hil-Mor Dr., Fairview Dr.,	Slurry Seal	
Sandpoint Dr„Cedarvale Dr.	Slurry Seal	
Subtotal of the Slurry Seal Projects		$275,000
Mauna Kea Dr., Milky Way, Trina Ln.  Lundard Dr.,Venus Dr.,Dupre Dr.  Uranus Dr.  Pisces Way,Sagittarius Ave., Moon- View Dr.  Lindsey Way.Cleta Ct, Puma Way, Denny Cr.	Overlay	
	Overlay	
	Overlay	
	Overlay	
Subtotal of the Overlay Projects		$750,000
Transit		$690,000
Congestion Relief and Pavement Management	Pedestrians and Bicycle Paths/Sidewalks	$2,757,347
		
TOTAL CERES		$27,622,347

City of Huahson

Project	Description	Total
Santa Fe Avenue	Widen to 4 lanes: From Hatch Road to 7" Street with intersection improvements at Tully Road, Whitmore Avenue, and 7* Street	$2,500,000
Mountain View Road	Extend as 4 lane Arterial: Hatch Road Canal to Santa Fe	$500,000*
Euclid Avenue	Realignment: From Santa Fe Avenue/Service Road to a location north of Service Road on Santa Fe Avenue	$500,000*
Congestion Relief and Pavement Management	Various locations in Hughson	$500,265
		
TOTAL HUGHSON		$4,000,265

* Does not represent the full cost of the project. Budget for Project to be supplemented by other sources

City of Modesto

Project	Description	Total
Overlay and Reconstruction (specific locations)		
9* Street	Overlay & Reconstruct: Tully to Carver	
Oakdale Road	Overlay: Flovd to Sylvan	
Oakdale Road	Overlay: Briqqsmore to Floyd	
Claus Road	Overlav: Scenic to Briqqsmore	
E. Rumble Road	Overlay: East of Coffee Road to West of Keller Street	
G Street	Overlay: East of 9" Street to West of Burnev	
Carpenter	Overlay: Maze to End of C Street and G Street	
Woodland Avenue	City Portion Only: Morse to Carpenter	
Dale Road	Overlay: Standiford to Nightingale	
Prescott Rd.	Overlay: Rumble to Cheyenne	

BSiaioriffTm

‘iiiiifiiiiifii

B Street	Overlay: East of 9* Street to West of 12* Street	
Oakdale Road	Overlay: North of Scenic to South of Wylie Drive	
Tully Road	Overlay: Yale to Briqgsmore	
Tuily Road	Reconstruct: West Rumble to Standiford	
Lakewood Avenue	Overlay: Scenic to Briqgsmore	
Paradise Road	Overlay: Sutter to Ellen	
7™ Street	Overlay: 1 Street to K Street	
Prescott Road	Overlay: Cheyenne to Snyder	
Date Road	Overlay: Niqhtenqale to Pelandale	
Kansas Avenue	Overlay & Reconstruct: West of Carpenter to Rosemore Ave	
Needham Avenue	Overlay & Reconstruct: East of College to west of L Street	
H Street	Overlay: 5*1 Street to Sutter	
Rosemore	Overlay: Woodland to Bluegum	
San Juan	Overlay & Reconstruct: North of Yosemite to south of Miller	
Penny Lane	Overlay: Pirinen to 170’ to the East	
Hatch Road	Overlay: East of Dallas Road to east of Ustick Road	
College Avenue	Overlay: Briggsmore to Bowen	
Kingswood Drive	Overlay: North of Sylvan to west of Forest Glen	
Forest Glen Drive	Overlay: South of Sylvan to south of Sylvan Meadow	
Semple Street	Overlay: North of Jones Street to south of Morris Avenue	
Whitmore Avenue	Overlay: West of Tuscon to City Limit	
Plaza Parkway	Overlay: Sisk Road to Prescott Road	
Rosemore	City Portion only from Kansas to Woodland	
Lincoln Avenue '	Overlay: Yosemite to Dry Creek	
Subtotal of Overlays/Reconstruction Projects  City_ol.Modesto.(Cpm^		$20,683,000
Project | Description		Total
Intersection and Interchange Improvements (specific locations)		
Oakdale/ Scenic	Intersection Improvements*	
Beckwith	Ramps Widening*	
Carpenter/Kansas	Interchange Improvements'	
Pelandale	Interchange Improvements*	
Slurry/ Cape Seals/ Surface Treatment	Various Locations*	
Subtotal for Intersection, Interchange, & Ramp Projects		$14,556,000
Construction Relief and Pavement Management (various locations)		
Overlay Reconstruction	Various Locations	
Pothole Repair-minor	Various Locations	
Repairs/PM	Various Locations	
Roadway Improvement	Various Locations	
intersection Improvements	Various Locations	
Local Match	Provide Local match funds for State and Federal Programs	
Subtotal for Construction Relief and Pavement Management (various locations)		$33,761,000
First 10 Year Total	Various Locations	$69,000,000
Overlay/Reconstruction	Various Locations	$33,534,799
Intersection/lnterchange  Improvements	Various Locations	$14,538,605	  $20,504,913
Congestion relief and Second 10 Year Total	Various locations	
		$68,578,322
TOTAL MODESTO		$137,578,322

'Does not represent the full cost of the project.' Budget for Project to he supplemented by other sources

Stanislaus 50 / 3*

City of Newman

Project	Description	Total
Inyo Avenue	Widen to 4 lanes: Complete Right-of-Way Improvements	$300,000
L Street	Reconstruction: Merced Street to Inyo Avenue	$300,000
Highway 33 § Inyo Avenue	Intersection Improvement: Install Traffic Signal	$300,000
Safe Routes to School Program	Sidewalks and Bike Route Improvements	$300,000
Pavement Management	Improve and maintain local roadways	$4,000,000
Local Match	Provide local match funds for State and Federal Funding Programs	$1,000,000
Congestion Relief and Pavement Management	Various locations in Newman	$575,851
TOTAL NEWMAN		$6,775,851

City of Oakdale

Project	Description	Total
Various Local Streets	Pavement Overlay of 11 miles of Roadways	$5,000,000
Sierra Road	Improvements: From Fifth Avenue to Pedersen Road	$1,000,000
Orsi Road	Improvements: From F Street to Sierra Avenue	$3,000,000
Trails, Path & Safe Routes to School	Various Trail Improvements in Oakdale	$2,000,000
Various Intersection Locations	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signals	$1,500,000
- Various Community Locations	Install Traffic Calming Devices	$500,000
Congestion Relief &Pavement Management	Various Locations in Oakdale	$1,880,400
TOTAL OAKDALE $14,680,400		

City of Patterson

Project	Description	Total
M Street and Hwy 33 Intersection	Traffic Signal and Re-Alignment	$200,000
Sperry Avenue and 1-5	Intersection Improvements	$1,000,000
Hwy 33 & Sperry AveiOrange Ave	Traffic Signal and Re-Alignment	$480,000
Ward Avenue and Hwy 33	Traffic Signal and Re-Alignment	$400,000
Sperry Ave (Ward Ave to Hwy 33)	Widening	$650,000
Overlay/Resurfaee	Various Locations in Patterson	$3,201,650
Reconstruction of Local Streets	Various Locations in Patterson	$6,487,395
Slurry seal/surface treatment	Various Locations in Patterson	$310,900
Congestion Relief and Pavement Management	Various Locations in Patterson	$1,000,000
TOTAL PATTERSON		$13,723,141

City of Riverbank

Project	Description	I Total
Roselle Avenue	Widen and Repair: Patterson to Claribel	' Sr ,135,7
Various Local Streets	Infill Sidewalks and provide Curb and Gutters ® Various Locations	f ,000,000
Central Avenue / California Avenue	Roadway Rehabilitation: Widen, Repave and provide Drainage System	so.oot
Pedestrian,/Bikeway	Stanislaus River to Jacob Myers Park Crossing	I $3,250,000
Congestion Relief and		| $1,000,000
Pavement Management		
TOTAL RIVERBANK		' 1 $14,135,759

City of Turlock

Project	Description	Total
Capital Reconstruction Projects (Arterials)		
Linwood Avenue	Adjoining Cunningham Elementary School: Lander to West Avenue South	
East Canal Drive	Golden State Blvd. to Daubenberger	
South Golden State Blvd.	Crane Street to South city limits	
North Golden State Blvd.	Fulkerth Road to Tuolumne Road	
East Hawkeye Avenue	Quincy Road to Palmer Drive	
West Main Sheet	Lander Avenue to West Avenue South	
South Kilroy Rd.	Spengler to Linwood Ave	
Geer Road	Monte Vista Avenue to Taylor Road	
North Olive Avenue	Monte Vista Avenue to Fullerton	
Pedras Road	Geer Road to Del’s Lane	
Fulkerth Road	Tully Road to North Golden State Blvd.	
West Monte Vista Avenue	Crowell Road to Geer Road	
Subtotal for Capital Reconstruction Projects (Arterials) in Various Locations		$14,500,000
Intersection Improvement Projects		
Golden State Blvd. @ F Street	Intersection Improvements: install Traffic Signal	
West Main 8 Tegner Road	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal	
Subtotal for Intersection Improvements		$1,500,000
Capital Reconstruction Projects		
Various Street Locations Congestion Relief and Pavement Management	Pavement Overlay/ Resurfacing of residential streets	
	Various Locations in Turlock	
Subtotal for Capital Reconstruction Projects		$32,225,800
TOTAL TURLOCK		$48,225,800

Project	Description	Total
Westem/State Highway 132	Design and improve intersection. Install traffic signal. Curb and sidewalk improvements to extend East to Bentley Street. Storm Drain Improvements	$660,000
Downtown Business Area Streets	Renovate and Improve Various Downtown Business Streets, Drainage upgrades, Pavement Overlays, add Sidewalks	$800,000
Downtown Residential Area Streets	Drainage System, Upgrade Pavement, Add Sidewalks, Curb and Gutter	$1,500,000
North Reinway Road	.Pavement Overlay: Add Curb, Gutter and Sidewalk	$120,000
Bentley Street	Pavement Overlay: Tim Bell Road to Canal	$350,000
South Western Avenue	Pavement Overiay: Washington Avenue to Riverside	$30,000
Welch Street	Overlay Welch from Tim Bell to Tohera Lane	$55,000
Tim Bell/SR 132	Intersection Improvements: Add Turning Lanes, Improve Drainage and sidewalks	$1,250,000
Riverside Road	Redesign and reconstmct roadway above Tuolumne River, Improve Storm Drainage, Add Curb, gutter and storm drainage where appropriate	$375,000
Sawmill Court and Bums Creek area	Address road subsidence issues	$40,000
Bonnie Bray Avenue	Overiay, curb, gutter sidewalk and landscaping from C street to Tim Bell Road	$250,000
Congestion Relief and Pavement Management	Various Locations in Waterford	$219,831
TOTAL WATERFORD		$5,649,831

County of Stanislaus Unincorporated Areas

Project	Description		Total
Claribel @ Coffee Road	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Claribel @ Roselle Avenue	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Claribel @ Terminal Road	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Crows Landing § Grayson	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Crows Landing § Keyes	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Crows Landing § West Main	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Carpenter Road @ Hatch Road	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Carpenter Road § Whitmore	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Faith Home § Keyes	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Main Rd @ Santa Fe Ave.	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffle Signal		
Service Rd @ Santa Fe Ave	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Keyes § Central Ave.	Intersection Improvements: Install Traffic Signal		
Claribel Road	Widening: McHenry to Albers		
Crows Landing	Widening: Keyes Road to SR 33		
Hatch Road	Widening: Faith Home Road to Santa Fe Avenue		
Albers Road	Widening: Faith Home Road to Santa Fe Avenue		
Carpenter Road	Widening: Whitmore Ave to West Main		
Claus Road	Widening: Terminal to Claribel		
East Avenue	Widening: Daubenberger Road to Grafton Road		
Faith Home Road	Widening: Keyes Road to Redwood Road		
Geer Road	Widening: Taylor Road to Yosemite		
McHenry Avenue	Widening: Ladd Road to San Joaquin County		
Santa Fe Avenue	Widening: Tuolumne River to Keyes Road		
Keyes Road	Widening: Montpellier to Carpenter		
Subtotal for Intersection Improvements & Widening Projects			$25,740,000
Geer Road Bridge	Seismic Rehab: Strengthen Bridge Seismic		
Santa Fe Bridge	Seismic Capacity: Increase Bridge from 2 lanes to 5		
Crows Landing Bridge	Seismic Capacity: Increase Bridge from 2 lanes to 5		
McHenry Bridge	Seismic Capacity: Increase Bridge from 2 lanes to 5		
Hickman Bridge	' River Scour: Bridge Replacement		

County of Stanislaus Unincorporated Areas (Continued)

Tim Bell Bridge	Wooden Bridge: Replace Maintenance Intensive Bridge	
Crabtree Bridge	Obsolete Bridge: Weight and Height Restricted Bridge	
Ceres Main Canal @ Keyes	Obsolete Bridge: Weight Restricted Bridge	
Hills Ferry / River Road	Seismic: Strengthen Bridge Seismic	
Pleasant Valley Bridge	Wooden Bridge: Replace Maintenance Intensive Bridge	
Subtotal for Seismic Bridges Improvement Projects		$13,260,000
Roadway Maintenance Program	Roadway resurfacing and maintenance	$38,601,481
TOTAL STANISLAUS COUNTY		$77,601,481

Stanislaus 50 / 37

TABLE 3	
REGIONAL CAPITAL CORRIDOR PROJECTS	
NORTHERN CORRIDOR	Iota!  Sales Tax Allocation
1. North County Corridor (NCC) Project Description:  A new Easti West Expressway to provide 2 to 4 Lanes Extendinq from Dale Road to East of the City of Oakdale	34.015% or approximately $116.67 million
CENTRAL CORRIDOR	Iaial Sales Tax Allocation
2. State Route 99/ Mitchell Road—Service Road Interchange Project  Description: Reconstruct the existing SR99/ Service—Mitchell Interchange. Improve Access Operability, Mobility and provide Congestion Relief.	9.038% or approximately $31 million
3. State Route 132 Improvements Project  Description: Improve existing SR132 from Western Stanislaus County Line to City of Waterford. Improvements between County Line and SR99 include partial roadway realignment and widening from 2 to 4 lanes.  Additional improvements include upgrading access connections between SR132 and SR99, and providing operational improvements from SR99 to the City of Waterford.	22.932% or approximately $78.66 million
SOUTHERN CORRIDOR	Iota)  Sales Tax Allocation
4. West Main/ Fulkerth Road Corridor Improvements Project Description: Improve East/ West Mobility between the Cities of Turlock and Patterson; from State Route 99 to Interstate 5. Improvements will include operational  Upgrades, Roadway Widening from 2 to 4 Lanes, and interchange Improvements.	34.015% or approximately $116.67 MILLION
TOTAL REGIONAL PROJECTS	100% or approximately $343 MILLION
Notes  1.	The Projects are not listed by priority.  2.	Corridor Projects shown are the adopted Regional Projects for 20 Years.  3.	Corridor Projects shown are included in the approved StanCOG 2007 RTP.	

For Further Information:

Contact the Stanislaus Council of Governments to inquire about the Transportation Measure Process, discuss the Candidate Projects and Programs contained in this
Expenditure Plan, or to inquire about the next steps in the Measure Process.

Stanislaus Council of Governments
900 H Street Suite D
Modesto, CA 95354
Ph: (209) 525-4600 Fax: (209) 558-7833

Visit the StanCOG website at http-J/wvrw.stancog.org/ for more information, to sign up for our email list, to receive updates on Measure Planning Activities, and to
view maps of the proposed projects.

Appendix A - Plan Administration

A description of the Stanislaus Council of Governments and its organizational structure related to the sales tax follows. The structure is consistent with the
enabling legislation.

A.	Stanislaus County Local Transportation Authority Structure under the Transportation Measure Program

The Stanislaus Council of Governments is designated by the Stanislaus County Board of Supervisors, as the Stanislaus County Local Transportation Authority
(Authority). The Authority will administer the Transportation Measure Program in compliance with Public Utilities Code PUC 180000 et seq. If the Transportation
Measure is approved by Stanislaus County voters in November 2008, the Authority will be responsible for administering the Transportation Measure Programs in

accordance with plans and programs outlined in this and subsequent updates of this Plan. In addition, this Plan includes provision for a Citizens Oversight
Committee. Details regarding the Committee are contained in Appendix B. The Strategic/Work Plan will be prepared by the Authority and approved by its Policy
Board. The Authority is represented by sixteen (16) members including: Five (5) members of the Board of Supervisors; Three (3) members representing the City
of Modesto; One (1) member representing each of the remaining eight cities in Stanislaus County; Ceres, Hughson, Newman, Oakdale, Patterson, Riverbank,
Turlock and Waterford.

II. Plan Update. Approval Process, and Expenditure Plan Amendments

A.	Plan Review and Approval Process

There are three primary reports/plans that are referenced as follows:

1.	The Expenditure Plan - The Expenditure Plan is approved by the voters and the Authority may annually review and propose amendments as outlined
below.

2.	The Annual Report- The Annual report is prepared each year by the Authority staff and the Citizens Oversight Committee to review how sales tax
receipts are being spent and publicize the results.

3.	Bi-Annual Strategic/Work Plan - Prepared every two years to outline project expenditures. The Strategic /Work Plan will be timed to coincide with the
development of the Bi-annual State Transportation Improvement Program Development.

B.	Amendments to the Expenditure Plan

The Authority may annually review and propose amendments to the Expenditure Plan to provide for the use of additional federal, state and local funds to account
for unexpected revenues, or to take into consideration unforeseen circumstances. The Authority shall act on only one package of amendments each fiscal year.
The Authority shall establish a process for proposed Expenditure Plan amendments(s) which ensures that Authority Committee(s), participate in the development
of the proposed amendment(s). Upon completion of this process, amendments(s) to the Expenditure Plan must be passed by a two-thirds majority of the
Authority by a roll call vote entered in the minutes of the Authority. Subsequently, the Authority shall notify the Board of Supervisors and the City Council of each
city in the county and provide each entity with a copy of the proposed amendment(s). Pursuant to Public Utilities Code 180207, proposed amendment(s) shall
become effective 45 days after notice is given, unless appealed under the process outlined in the following paragraph. Should an appeal be filed, the Authority
shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment(s) within 45 days of the filing of the appeal.

In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree with the Authority’s amendment(s), the jurisdiction’s policy decision-making body must, by a majority vote,
determine to formally notify the Authority of its intent, in writing by registered mail, to obtain an override of the Authority's amendment(s). The appealing
jurisdiction will have 45 days from the date the Authority adopts the proposed amendment(s) to obtain resolutions supporting an override of the amendment(s)
from a majority of the cities representing a majority of the population residing within the incorporated areas of the county and from the Board of Supervisors. If a
jurisdiction does not obtain the necessary resolutions supporting the override, the Authority’s amendment^) to the Expenditure Plan will stand. If the necessary
resolutions supporting the override are obtained'within 45 days from the date the Authority adopts the proposed amendment(s), then the amendment(s) shall not
become effective.

C.	Bi-Annual Strateoic/Work Plan

The following steps will be taken by the Authority to prepare and adopt this and future Bi-Annual updates of the Transportation Measure Strategic/Work Plan.

This will include a financial plan that coincides with the development of the State Transportation Improvement Program (STIP). The Authority staff working with
member agencies and affected stakeholders will develop the Draft Strategic/Work Plan, and will update it every two years. The Authority Policy Board receives
the Draft Strategic/Work Plan and its updates and schedules public hearings to review the document. The Authority Policy Board adopts the Strategic/Work
Plan. The Strategic Plan will be the master document for delivery of the Expenditure Plan projects and programs. The purposes of the Strategic Work Plan are
as follows:

a)	Defines the scope, cost, and schedule of each project and program

b)	Identifies accomplishments and critical issues

c)	Lists a set of amendments to these projects and programs

d)	Details the revenue projected and possible financing tools needed to deliver the Expenditure Plan

e)	Gathers into one document the policies and procedures of the Expenditure Plan

f)	Serves as annual budget

HI.	Implementing	Guidelines

t

A.	Administration Program: -1% of the Transportation Measure

The Authority will hire the staff and professional assistance required to administer the proceeds of the tax and carry out the mission outlined in this Expenditure
Plan. The total administrative cost of salaries and benefits, of the staff, of the Authority shall not exceed one percent (1%) of the gross revenues
generated by the transportation measure. These costs include salaries, wages, and benefits. An Annual Independent Financial Audit shall be conducted

to assure that the revenues expended by the Authority under this section are necessary and reasonable in carrying out its responsibilities	under the

, Expenditure Plan. The Authority will prepare an Annual Report, identifying the total expenditures for administration, as well as for other costs associated
with delivering-the program. An Annual Budget will be adopted by the Authority each year. The budget will project the expected sales tax receipts, other
anticipated funds, and planned expenditures for administration, programs and projects. The Strategic Work Plan can serve as the budget.

B.	Authority Committees:

The following committee structure will advise the Authority in the administration of the Expenditure Plan. The Technical Advisory Committee shall consist of the
Chief Administrative Official or his/her designee, of each member of the Authority as designated by the member. The Technical Advisory	Committee

shall advise the StanCOG Executive Committee and the Authority. The Technical Advisory Committee shall annually elect from its own members its
Chairperson. The Independent Citizens Oversight Committee see Appendix B.

C.	Bonding and Financing

The Authority will have the authority to bond and use other financing mechanisms, including, when more advantageous economically, loans from banks and
other financial tending institutions, for the purposes of expediting the delivery of transportation projects and programs ana to provide economies of scale.
Bonds or loans, if issued, will be paid with the proceeds of the transportation sales tax. Tne costs and risks associated with the bonding and loans will be
presented in the Strategic/Work Plan, and will be subject to public comment before any bond sale or loan application is approved. The Authority will also be
able to use other means to accelerate the delivery of projects and programs, including partnering with other Councils of Governments, the State of California,
the Federal Government, and other government agencies, federal authorization funds, federal earmarks, partnering with private entities, seeking outside grants
and matching or leveraging tax receipts to the maximum extent possible. Local agencies may choose to advance funds for a project, either a project specified
in the plan, or a project for which they plan to use their local agency Local Program funds, and to receive reimbursement for that advancement in accordance

with the plan. The fund advancement and reimbursement projections must be approved by the Authority in accordance with the voting requirements, prior to
proceeding with the project.

D.	Excess or Less than Projected Revenues

Excess revenue could result from higher than expected receipts, lower than expected project costs, or the addition of leveraged funds from other sources. All
excess revenue will be programmed in the Agency’s annual Strategic Work Plan and will be disbursed proportionately across local and regional projects. In the
event that actual receipts are less than projected, funds would be programmed based on the Annual Strategic Work Plan.

E.	Accountability

All business of the Authority will be conducted in an open and public meeting process in accordance with the California Brown Act. The Authority will approve all
spending plans described in this document and will ensure that adequate public involvement has been included in the preparation of all spending plans. The
Authority will be required to hire an independent auditor who will annually audit all sales tax expenditures, ensuring that expenditures are made in accordance
with the plan, and with prudent, established accounting regulations and practices.

F.	Other Guidelines

This plan is guided by principles that ensure that the revenue generated by the transportation sales tax is spent in the most efficient and effective manner
possible, consistent with the desires of the voters of Stanislaus County. The principles outlined in this section provide flexibility needed to address issues that
may arise during the life of the Expenditure Plan.

1.	The Authority will fund both local and regional projects.

2.	The Authority is charged with a fiduciary duty in administering the transportation sales tax proceeds in accordance with the applicable laws and this
Expenditure Plan. Receipt of these tax proceeds may be subject to appropriate terms and conditions as determined by the Authority in its reasonable
discretion, including, but not limited to, the right to require recipients to execute funding agreements and the right to audit recipients' use of the tax
proceeds.

3.	The monies collected through the Authority shall be accounted for and invested separately, unless and until the funds are turned over to a local agency in
accordance with the Expenditure Plan. At such time, the local agency shall keep a separate accounting of the monies and any and all expenditures to
ensure that the monies are spent in accordance with the approved Expenditure Plan.

4.	All meetings of the Authority will be conducted in public accordance to state law, through publicly noticed meetings. The annual budget of the	Authority,

annual work plan, biennial Strategic/Work Plan, and annual report will all be prepared for public scrutiny. The interests of the public will further be	protected

by the Citizens Oversight Committee described in this Expenditure Plan.

5.	Under no circumstances may the proceeds of this transportation sales tax be applied to any purpose other than for transportation improvements	described

in this Expenditure Plan benefiting Stanislaus County and its member agencies. The funds may not be used for any transportation projects or	programs

other than those specified in this Expenditure Plan without an amendment of this Expenditure Plan.

6.	The actual requirements for funds in a specific program could be higher or lower than expected due to changes in funding outside of this transportation
sales tax, or due to changes in project costs or feasibility. Should the need for funds for any program/project be less than the amount to be allocated by the
sales tax, or should any project become infeasible for any reason, funds will first be considered for reprogramming to other programs or projects in the
same regional area and cannot be reprogrammed outside that regional area without a 4/5 vote of the Authority at a noticed public hearing.

7.	The Regional Capital Corridor projects shall be guided by the following conditions:

a.	Any revenue growth in the overall transportation sales tax program will be prorated across all three Capital Corridors.

b.	It is anticipated that these projects will leverage both State and Federal funds as has been historically experienced by other “Self Help
Counties” who have transportation sales tax Programs.

c.	It is understood that projected transportation sales tax revenues associated with each of these Corridors will not change existing funding
protocols to compete for other State or Federal transportation funds. Additionally, these existing transportation funding programs remain
separate and distinct from the proposed transportation sales tax program.

d.	It is understood that the projects identified in each Corridor must remain through the duration of the proposed transportation sales tax program;
and must be delivered in a timely manner by each project sponsor based on agreed-to milestone schedules.

8.	All projects funded with these transportation sales tax funds will be required to complete appropriate California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and
other environmental review as required.

9.	Funds may be accumulated by the Authority or by recipient agencies over a period of time to pay for larger and long-term local projects. All interest
income generated by these proceeds will accrue to the specific fund/local project intended. If accumulated for a general purpose, the proceeds will be
used for the transportation purposes described in this Expenditure Plan.

10.	The Authority will have the capability of loaning transportation sales tax receipts at prevailing interest rates to other member agencies for the
implementation of needed transportation projects, provided that a guaranteed revenue stream is devoted to repay such a loan over a maximum amount of
time, and provided that the loan will not interfere with the implementation of programs or projects defined in trie Expenditure Plan. Loaning of funds
requires approval from the Authority.

11.	Matching or leveraging of outside funding sources is strongly encouraged. Any additional transportation sales tax revenues made available through their
replacement by matching funds will be spent based on the principles outlined previously in these guidelines.

12.	For Regional Capital Corridor Projects obtaining third party grants by member agencies is encouraged so as to leverage sales tax revenue and expedite
completion of projects. All funds generated by such third party grants solicited for specific regional projects shall be applied solely to those projects. The
Authority will give preference to use the savings resulting from said grants toward other regional projects which primarily benefit the member agency
responsible for obtaining said grants. Grants, as applied to the foregoing, do not include ST1P funds.

13.	New incorporated cities or new transit agencies or services that come into existence in Stanislaus County during the life of the Expenditure Plan could be
considered as eligible recipients of funds through an Expenditure Plan Amendment, and an additional position created on the governing board.

Appendix B - Citizen’s Oversight Committee

Citizens Oversight Committee (COC) Goal and Function

The COC shall review the fiscal and program performance of the Sales Tax Transportation Program through an annual audit to ensure that all Transportation
Sales Tax funds are spent by the Authority in accordance with all provisions of the voter approved Expenditure Plan and Ordinance. The COC's other mission is
to provide positive, constructive advice to the Authority on how to improve implementation over the twenty year course of the program for the benefit of
Stanislaus County residents and the community at large, and to study, and report, on other issues related to the current or future use of transportation sales tax
funds that may be expressly authorized by the Authority Board.

B.	Audit Requirement

The COC shall supervise annual fiscal and performance audits, which shall be performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States and based on performance goals adopted by the Authority Board for
each program or project funded in whole or in part with sales tax funds.

C.	Role of Financial and Performance Audits

The Authority shall, under the competitive procurement rules of the Authority select, with the recommendation of the COC, a professional auditor to conduct
annual fiscal and performance audits of expenditure of all sales tax funds, report findings based on the audits to the Authority and to the public; and recommend
any additional audits for consideration, which the COC believes may impose the financial operation and integrity of program implementation, while meeting all
voter mandates. No professional audit Arm shall conduct more than three consecutive annual audits during the course of the 20 Year Sales Tax Program.

The Authority shall hold a publicly noticed meeting included on the agenda of a regularly scheduled Board meeting, with the recommendations of the COC, to
consider, the findings and recommendations of the audits. A report of the findings and recommendations of each audit by the COC shall be made readily
available to the public in print and on the Authority’s electronic website.

D.	Membership and Selection Process

Each City Council and the County Board of Supervisors shall appoint one member to the Citizens Oversight Committee. Each City and the County shall develop
an open selection process that actively advertises for potential membership recruits and selects committee members that are all residents of each City and the
County. In addition, the Authority shall appoint five additional members to serve on the Citizens Oversight Committee. The five members appointed by the
Authority shall include one member who represents each of the following groups or industries: Senior Citizens; Accounting/Finance; Taxpayers; Construction
and Labor. The Chair and the Executive Director of the Authority and County Auditor shall serve as ex-officio nonvoting members of COG.

£ Terms end Conditions for Committee

1.	Committee members shall serve staggered four year terms. In no case shall voting committee members serve more than eight years on the COC.

2.	Committee members shall serve without compensation, except they shall be reimbursed for authorized travel and other expenses directly related to the

work of the COC.

3.	' Committee members cannot be a current local elected official in the County or a full time or part time staff member of any City, the County Government,

Local Transit Operator, or State Transportation Agency.

4.	Non-voting ex-officio committee members shall serve only as long as they remain incumbents in their respective positions and shall be automatically
replaced by their successors in those positions.

5.	If and when vacancies on the COC occur on the part of voting committee members, either due to expiration of term, death, or resignation, the appropriate
City or the County shall appoint an appropriate replacement within the 90 days of the vacancy to fill the remainder of the term.

F.	Sales Tax COC Operation Protocols

Given the twenty year duration of the sales tax, the COC shall be appointed no later than July 1,2009 and continue as long as sales tax funds from the current
voter authorization are made available. The Authority Board and staff fully cooperate with and provide necessary financial and staff support to ensure the COC
effectively carries out its duties and obligations. The annual cost of the activities of the COC shall be funded by the sales tax annually, adjusted for inflation.

G.	Conflict of Interest

COC voting members shall have no legal action pending against the Authority and are prohibited from acting in any commercial activity directly or indirectly
involving the Authority, such as being a consultant or vendor to the Authority during their tenure on the COC. COC voting members shall not have direct
commercial interest or employment with any public or private entity, which receives the transportation sales tax funds authorized by toe voters in the sales tax
Ordinance.

Stanislaus 50741

50/41

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S
BY COUNTY COUNSEL

STANISLAUS COUNTY BETTER ROADS/SAFER STREETS
PROGRAM
AND USE TAX ORDINANCE

Measure “S" would authorize the Stanislaus County Local Transportation
Authority to impose a one-half cent Retail Transactions and Use Tax for
a maximum of 20 years to fund the specific transportation and traffic
relief projects and safety and road maintenance programs identified in
the Financial Expenditure Plan.

The measure creates an independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee to
supervise fiscal and performance audits regarding the use of all sales
tax funds and to insure that* all funds are spent in accordance with the
Financial Expenditure Plan.

On July 3, 2008, the Stanislaus County Local Transportation Authority
adopted Ordinance No. 08-06, which imposes a Retail Transactions and
Use Tax in Stanislaus County at the rate of one-half of one percent in
addition to any existing or future state or local Retail Transactions and
Use Tax and authorizes the Authority to issue bonds to pay for projects
described in the Financial Expenditure Plan. The revenue received by
the Stanislaus County Local Transportation Authority will be expended
for the transportation improvement projects and programs set forth
in the Financial Expenditure Plan. A copy of the Ordinance and the
Financial Expenditure Plan are printed in the sample ballot.

This measure would become effective only upon the affirmative vote
of at least two-thirds of those voting on the measure. If the measure
is approved, the sales tax would be imposed on the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County of Stanislaus.

—A “yes” vote is to approve Ordinance No. 08-06 and favors the
imposition of the one-half cent sales tax to fund the 20 year Stanislaus
County Transportation Financial Expenditure Plan.

—A “no” vote is to disapprove Ordinance No. 08-06 and opposes the
imposition of the one-half cent sales tax to fund the 20 year Stanislaus
County Transportation Financial Expenditure Plan.

Prepared by County Counsel under Election Code Section 9313.

/s/ John P. Doering, County Counsel of the County of Stanislaus

' ■ ^2

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Measure S is critical to repairing our local streets, roads and highways
to ensure safety for all Stanislaus County residents. Measure S will
fund local projects countywide, which is why it’s supported by local
leaders from Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Patterson, Newman, Oakdale,
Riverbank, Salida, Hughson, Waterford, Denair, Crows Landing and the
unincorporated county areas.

Taxpayers and our public funds are protected by Measure S. By law,
not one dollar generated by this measure can be taken by the State of
California - all funds must be spent locally, on pre-approved projects.
The measure also requires elected officials to report to a citizen’s
oversight committee that will annually monitor all expenditures.

Every resident and voter of Stanislaus County will benefit from the
improvements funded by Measure S. This plan provides money to every
city in Stanislaus County to fix local roads, fill potholes, improve busy
intersections by synchronizing signals, improve bicycle and pedestrian
routes, and shorten emergency response times.

Measure S will stimulate the local economy and create jobs. Local
business leaders support Measure S because it will improve connections
to Highway 99 and Interstate 5, making transporting goods easier and
encouraging industry to invest in Stanislaus County.

This measure provides a balanced solution for local road repairs. Half
the money will go toward regional road and highway improvements, and
half the money will go toward local projects in cities and communities
throughout the county. Only 1% of the money can be spent on

administration.

Hundreds of millions of dollars in state matching transportation funds
are allocated annually to “self help” counties throughout California
that have passed local measures such as Measure S. Passage of
this measure is critical to ensuring that the communities of Stanislaus
County receive our fair share of state funding.

Please join us in voting Yes on S for Safe Streets and Better Roads.

/s/ Dan Costa, CEO 5.11 Tactical Inc.

/s/ Mickey C. Peabody, Chair Stanislaus County Commission on
Aging '

/s/ Odessa P. Johnson, University of California Regent & Modesto City
School Board Member (Retired)

/s/ Les Weidman, Stanislaus County Sheriff (Retired)

/s/ Jim Jasper, Westside Farmer

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

After you approve the 20 year sales tax increase, politicians will
immediately borrow as much money as they can using anticipated tax
revenue as collateral. They will start a spending spree to build roads
that will benefit new development. Within 5 years, all borrowed money
will be spent. During the remaining 15 years, tax money will be used
to repay the debt. Proponents don’t want an 8 year tax because they
can’t borrow enough money!

Once you approve, citizens can do little to stop the spending spree.

Highway construction projects typically have 10-25 percent
administrative overhead. The assertion that only one percent will be
spent on administration is incredibly misleading.

Since when does raising taxes during a deep recession stimulate the
economy?

Because large money amounts go for new roads, this tax can’t possibly
fix all existing deficiencies.

Stanislaus receives federal and state matching funds for road projects
yearly and will continue to do so even if this measure fails.

Studies show that voters will approve tax increase if ballot argument
uses the word “safety”. You are being manipulated. An insignificant
amount will be spent directly for safety.

Why didn’t an elected politician who appropriates expenditures sign the
argument in favor to attest that promises made are true? Will politicians
stack the citizen oversight committee with friends of developers?

100% of any tax increase is needed to fix roads. Nothing should go to
service a new debt or subsidize new growth. Please vote no.

/s/ Bruce R. Frohman - Citizen Advocate

......Stanislaus.50X43.-

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

The proposed tax increase will not deliver the goods that we want. Not
enough money will go to fix roads.

Half of the tax revenue will go to the County. Cutting through large
swaths of prime farmland, expressways will be built to induce urban
growth. The Salida and Crowslanding mega projects will be subsidized
by your tax dollars. Instead of taking your money, capital facilities fees
should pay the entire bill for the expressways. After all, the expressways
would not be needed if the growth wasn’t allowed. New growth should
pay for itself.

The other half of the tax revenue will go to cities. Most cities are
dominated by pro-growth councils. In recent history, most road
improvement money has gone to building roads serving new
development. Meanwhile, roads in older parts of some cities have been
overlooked for years. The tax does not guarantee that neglected areas
will be better served.

The tax will last 20 years. Whether your money is used as promised,
you will pay a long time. During public hearing on this ballot item, I
suggested an 8 year quarter percent tax for the sole purpose of road
repair. Voters could renew the,tax when promises are kept. Shouldn’t
you have an opportunity to review accomplishment? After all, the
library tax is voted on every 8 years, so why shouldn’t the road tax be
accounted for?

Election before last, California voters approved a $50 billion road
improvement bond. Considering all the other road taxes we pay, when
will government have enough money?

Save yourself one half percent on almost every purchase you make
for the next 20 years. Just vote “NO”. In the future, you will be given
another chance to Increase your taxes.

/s/ Bruce R. Frohman, Citizen Advocate

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Nothing is more important than safety for Stanislaus County residents.
We need funding for critical safety repairs to local streets, roads and
highways. This is far too important to be lost due to inaccurate,
misleading arguments.

Your YES vote is critical. Please consider the facts before voting:

• A YES vote on Measure S provides over $700 million in
funding dedicated for street and road improvement in
communities across Stanislaus County

This vital measure mandates a citizen’s oversight committee to provide
strict fiscal accountability, ensuring that funds are only spent on projects
designated in the plan.

•	Don’t let extreme land-use positions prevent positive
transportation improvements. Measure S repairs
existing streets and roads, WITHOUT subsidizing new
development.

In fact, safety enhancements like improving walking routes to schools,
installing traffic signals at dangerous intersections, synchronizing traffic
signals, and improving emergency response times and all of the funding
provided to fix local road, fill potholes, repair sidewalks, upgrade
bikeways will be made to existing roads.

•	Passage of this measure is critical to ensuring that Stanislaus
County receives our fair share of 2006 state proposition IB
funding which could otherwise be lost to other communities.

•	A YES vote on Measure S will boost the Stanislaus
County economy by bringing good-paying jobs and better
connections to Highway 99 and Interstate 5, making
transporting goods easier and encouraging industry to invest
in Stanislaus County.

Please join local leaders from Modesto, Turlock, Ceres, Patterson,
Newman, Oakdale, Riverbank, Salida, Hughson, Waterford, Denair,
Crows Landing and unincorporated county areas in voting YES on S.

/s/ Carol Whiteside - President Emeritus, Great Valley Center
/s/ Dennis V. Jackman - Co-Author Stamp Out Sprawl
/s/ Pat Shade - 45 Year Member of the Republican Central Committee
from Turlock (Retired)

/s/ Becky Campo - Mayor, City of Patterson

/s/ Jim DeMartini- Farmer & Former Charman Republican Central
Committee

50/44