Card 2 of 2



JHU HU

[spa paa iMi

mi

p ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

^ - Shall the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority continue to plan, design, construct and provide transit services 83 described tn the draft Valley'
Transportation Plan 2035 (VTP 2035) to be adopted by December 2008? VOTING FOR THIS MEASURE DOES NOT INCREASE TAXES. .

votoconsultivoOnicamente	,

iDebe la Autoridad de Transports del Valle de Santa Clara contlnuar planeando, diseriando, construyendo y propordonando services do transports conforms se descrBben
en ef anteproyecto del Plan de .Transports del Valle 2035 (VTP 2035) a ser adoptado en dldembre de 2008? VOTAR POR ESTA MED1DA NO AUMENTA LOS
1MPUESTOS.	.	,	■

. St\all the following ordinance be enacted?	v	-	*.	*	*	.	:

^	. The ordinance adopted by the people of the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authorilyon Match 2,1976 (Measure’ B) and amended by the voters at the

November 6/1990 election, shall be further amended to read as follows: "It shall be the policy of the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority to submit to'th8 2000
Measure A Citizen's Watchdog Committee every 6 years a comprehensive transit progra m for review and comment”

^Debe promulgate ia slguiente ordenanza?	*	.	.	■	.	/

La ordenanza adoptada por la gente de la Autoridad de Transports del Valle de Santa Clara el 2 de marzo de 1976 (Me’dida B) y enmendadaipor fos votanles en la eleccton
del.6 de novlenibre de 1990, debsr^ enmendarse para que se lea de la slguiente manera: *Deber6 ser la polltlca de la-Autoridad de Transporte det Valle de Santa Clara

ii*
88 •

CITY OF MORGAN HILL
CIUDAD DE MORGAN HILL

p THE MORGAN HILL VITAL CITY SERVICES PROTECTION MEASURE '

^ To help protect general City services Including public safety, shall the City of Morgan Hill eslabSsh a two percent general utility users’ tax on the use of gas,
electricity, water, telecommunications, video, sewer, and refuse hauling services, with low-income exemptions, to be reviewed by the City Council every two years and
terminated if findings are not made that the tax is necessary for the City’s financial health?	. •	'

MED1DADEPROTECC16NDE LOS SERV1C10S VITALES DE LA CIUDAD DE MORGAN HILL * ’	.	.

A fin de ayudar a proteger los serviclos generates de la Ciudad hduyendo la seguridad pObSca, ^debe la Ciudad de Morgan Hill establecer un impuesto general a los
usuarios de serviclos pfiblicos del do$ por clento sobre el uso de gas, electrlddad, agua, telecomunlcaclones, video, desagQes, y rehusando serviclos de reco!ecd6n, con
exendones para las personas de bajos Ingresos, a ser revisado por el Concejo Municipal cada dos alios y ser abolido si no se encuentran motivbs de qua el impuesto es
necesario para lasalud financlera de ia Ciudad? _______________________   _	_	  :__________________________  .______________________

H Shall an ordinance to exempt a total of 500 residential allotments In a 20 block area of downtown from the City of Morgan HilTs Residential Development Control
' System without Increasbg the population cap of 48,000 In 2020 and to authorize the City Council to adopt policies and procedures Implementing ihe exerriptions-
be adopted?

iDebe adoptarse una ordenanza para eximir del Slstema de Control de Urbanizad6n Residendal de la CRidad de Morgan Hill un total de 500 lotes residencies en un area
de 20 cuadras en el cenlro de la ctudad sin aumentar el Ifmlte de poWacton de 48,000 en el 2020 y para autorizar al Concejo Municipal para queadople pollticas y

ex?n_clQ.n.ffi_____	.	  __	___________________ ^ ___________ _________________



NO

NO

2*4-

NO

NO

MEASUREG

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

Measure G, if approved by a majority vote, would authorize the
collection of a utility users tax in the City of Morgan Hill. The tax would .
be a general tax Imposed at the rate of two percent (2.0%) on the use of .
gas, electric, water, sewer, garbage, telecommunications and
video/CATV services.

All revenue generated by the general tax would go to the City's general
fund to provide general city services including, police, emergency
preparedness, libraries, youth and senior services. It is estimated that
the tax will generate approximately $1.6 million per year, which
represents approximately 6% of the City's general operating budget. -

Exemptions to the tax are expressly provided, Low income electricity
and gas users who qualify for the California Alternate Rates for Energy
(CARE) Program pursuant to the California Public Utilities Code are
exempt from the tax on gas and electricity usage. The tax would not be
ievied against entities exempt by law, including federal and state
agencies and public schools.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and service
charges, and would be collected by the utility service provider.

The levy of the utility users tax is subject to review by the City Council
not later than June 30, 2011, and every two years thereafter. If the
Council fails to make findings by a two thirds (2/3) vote that such tax is
necessary-for the financial health of the City, the levy of the tax will
terminate on December 31s1 of the year in which the Council fails to
make the required findings.

A "Yes" vote means the voter'is in favor of authorizing the City to.collect
a utility users tax. A "No" vote means the voter Is not in favor of the City
.collecting a utility users tax.

In order for the City to collect a utility users tax, the ballot measure must
be approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure.

/s/ Dan K, Siegel	.

Interim City Attorney
City of Morgan Hill

The above statement is ah Impartial analysis of Measure G, If
you desire a copy of the Measure, please call the City Clerk's.
Office at 408/779-7259, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
A copy of the Measure may also be found' at
www.mofqanhill.ca.gov

t

. . • : ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OP MEASURE G V vc ™

Nothing is more, important to the community than public safety; our
highest priority.

The City continues its managed growth;: there are new stores and
restaurants and,more activities for kids and families. But the level of .
police staffing has not kept pace and prevents us from providing the
best and safest services.

After an extended period of intense study and community input, it is
clear that we need to efficiently deploy more officers on patrol. We
need to expand anti-gang and anti-drug enforcement efforts as crime
and gang activity increase in Morgan Hill. We need more crime
prevention officers in neighborhoods to improve safety and protect the :
quality of life we enjoy in our community.

Morgan Hill has the lowest ratio of police officers to population in Santa
Clara Cou nty as well as one of the lowest per capita tax rates.

Your City Council manages'the city to put your money to v/ork as
efficiently as .possible. Additional revenues, are needed to pay for
increased. police . staffing -and services. Your entire City "Council
supports the need for significantly more officers. .

A 2% tax on utility bills is a reasonable investment to make to provide
more effective, efficient and safer services. It is less than half the rale
assessed by neighboring cities.	-

This measure will save overtime payment expenses. None of the
money raised by this measure can be taken by the state or county- it all
stays right here in Morgan Hill..

Extraordinary financial accountability features are implemented by
Measure G. in addition to annual'audits, every two years, the measure
will be publicly reviewed;, and only two' elected City Couricii member
votes would be needed to overturn it.

Please join your neighbors and friends in supporting vital City services
that protect our community's safety, vote YES on Measure G.

/s/Steve Tate ...	.......	;i.	,

Mayor, City of Morgan Hill

IslDennis Kennedy
Former Mayor

Isl Laura L. Brunton
Board Member, Chamber of Commerce

Isl Jeannette K, Riley
' Senior Advisory Commissioner

Isl Shane Palsgrove
President, Police Officers Association

pr-7523-1 e	N SC Ballot Type 152 - Page 34

I	■	•	%

	
REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G	' ‘ARGUMENTAGAIN^pA^^
Without a'doubt, the most important seivices the City is responsible for are: police,fire, sewer, and water.,!/. . ,,  We strongly support public safety services.; . .* .... / ”.  But this utility tax is about Recreation Department losses.  The Morgan Hill Redevelopment Agency CRpA") spent $65 million building the following recreational facilities that Council Members Tate, Sellers, and Carr pledged would be financially sound: .  2002 - Community Center - $13.6 million 2002 - Community Playhouse$3.0 million 2004 - Aquatics Center - $13.5 million  2006	- Centennial Recreation Center -- $27.5 million  2007	-Outdoor Sports Center$7.7 million . .  Yeti Recreation Department expenses have consistently exceeded revenues resulting ;in huge: losses. Losses over the last six years totaled $6.6 million, and for the next five years are projected to be $6.8 million., (these figures are from the 2003 through 2008 "Operating and QIP Budget” reports published annually by the City.)- .  Without these losses, the city could have. $15.4 million frojn which To pay for additional police services.;  Council Members Tate, Sellers; and Carr pledged to/buifd financially sound recreational facilities and they failed, They have, fumed their failure into a.utility tax. I’;:V •  Without a doubt, taxpayers need and must demand strong fiscal management. .< If the City: wants more tax money, a financially sound Recreation Department plan should be presented. .- '•>-  We work hard for the money. Don't- let the City Ignore Recreation Department losses. .. -V ‘-.;  Vote November 4th against the utility tax, Measure G. - \ ‘  To see images of supporting’documenti and more •details visit: wwvr.gNoWay.com . ;Jy\. v;'\; \ •  /s/Patricia A Elciridge ' V *' :  Treasurer, CAUGHT Again. ■ '.V. .  /s/Arthur T.’College fl .... .‘ - . . . . Director of .Finance/Assistant Cily Mahager (Former)';■ ..  IslMarionV.Smith ’. Concerned Resident' '  /s/OouglasA.McNea . • •  President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers'Association • '■ '	Vote NO because: For Election' Day November, T999;;cUrre^ : Members, Tate, Sellers, and Carr, signed'it (Re^uMC) ; asking voters to extend the RDA .to build, among other ltGm5,:r^r^ati^ ' facilities. They pledged that 1) only fin^nciaily^8QMnd facllitles wodid; i be built, 2) no bonded debit issued, 3) faci!it!6s'. pperfitiq(^^(fihpitj; raise taxes. All three pledges will be - Here's what actually happened. '  *' . ■ • •• • h  Fiscal Year Ending June {'FYEJun.e")5003: ; :{'■ { December - Community & Cultural Center 'Grand Operiing t Recreation operating LOSS - $616,127 . V ;•?;$$ i  FVEJune 2004: . ;V V®t;; June - Aquatics Center G(and Qpenipg ,, f Recreation operating LOSS * $917,986"'  ' <. i.-'..v - > < V J' V. "C V>- '  FYEJuhe2005:'- j, : / • Julv ^ Treasulrer: ’five-vearDlan,,. identified... strona potential for a:, ishortageofreventib",- •'Vv 1 . ’C. •'* '  . ■ Feb »Carr:- "Council..,policy in place..; projects hre to break even” •.  May'- Tate: - -pledge was made to the:public to make these ' operatidfiS;COS,tnscoyeryVV-:_: . 't -r; • '  Mav - Sellers: Council ’mav have' ‘but- themselves' in ^ box .declaring these facllities would be able td fia/for ihemseives"-;;.. '.: v;  - June!^ Grzari:"City has built facilities without'a mechanism to 'sustainthem",'-'-f ■' W.-;V ^ : ’ -Vc-’  •	Recreation. Operating LOSS “,-6^018,906 V ;.; •"*!'  FYEdune2006:... . ;..  - .'January •- Council begins Cbmmunity Conversation rpgardlhg .Gtene^l'fuffdLOSS ’ ; • v ; ‘  - ; April r Community, Cohvers'atioh Results ': "31 % .supported cuts to. recreation^ r .-"V ' ;v'V. V*Rec«Mi6n^pabfli^^1.06S,4t4 . ■ ' . .  FYEJuhe 2007: .. ' -V'' ’ .. ' .. v •/  •	Octobej-Centennial Recreatidn Center Grand Opening . Rbcfbafion operating LO§$ - $1,63^^428. '  FYEJune.2008:o: •  ^Novemb'er^Outdoor Sports Center.Grand Opening- ... ^ iianuary v Council issued $110,000,006 RDA bonded debt J. • May: - 'City Connections, newsletter mentions only:public safety shortfall,. .  Recreation operating LOSS projection “$,1,379,'5fi4 . .. • • :  July 2008 through June2013:... .'v.;..... ’ "November - Proposed. Utility Tax,. "Vital City Services Protection Measure", iaisps $1,6,00,000 annually  Recreation-operating, LOSS projection' - $8,770,602 ($1|754,12p yearly) : • - =.- ■ '• ' .-*■

PR-7623-2e	~	_	\	'	‘	~	*	•:	'	V	.	:	\	N	SC	Ballot	Type	152	-	^806.35' '•

'f>

\

ARGUMENT. AGAINST MEASURE G - Continued

This tax is about recreation losses and money management, not public
safety.

IslPatricia A Eldridge
Treasurer CAUGHT Again

/s/Lisa Fay Johnson
Assistant Controller

I

Isl Marion V. Smith	'	>■

Concerned Resident

Isl Arthur T. College II
Dir. of Finance/Asst. City Mgr. (Former)

y

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

t seems that government at all levels is talking about raising taxes to
continue providing services during tough economic times.

Measure G is a local measure for local services right here in Morgan Hill.
The Council and the community strongly support the need for
expanding police services and Measure G will provide the revenue to
make a big difference. The expenditure of the funds, generated by
Measure G will be decided right here in Morgan Hill with regular public
review and accountability to the taxpayers of Morgan Hill.

Recreation programs and facilities help build a stronger community and
make Morgan Hill attractive.to new private investment.

But what we need now are more police officers on the street. ■

Vote YES on Measure G.

,/s/Steve fate •	•r. •: v ''	■’ V .

1 Mayor, City of Morgan Hill ' ;

/s/ShanePalsgove..' :;-. V ;; >•	.	-'Vo'	■

President,' Police .Offices Association *	r	.

/s/J. Robert Foster," ;	■ ’...	/:.•

. Attorney at Law	..

islLdrerizd‘torTEscobar .	..•: \7-;.. " '■ .	:

. V ' Youth Advocate' .	;	V	/. - ;

/s/Marby-LeeV ’
Cbuncilmember	•*'



t v '

- f	‘	-	*	*

.. . ■ ::,

pR-7sme	-	N	SG.Ballot	Type	152	-	Page	36

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 4 of 28

EXHBIT A

Draft UUT Ordinance 07-17-08)

ORDINANCE NO. 08-

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL ADDING CHAPTER 3.26 TO
TITLE 3 OF THE MORGAN HILL MUNICIPAL CODE WITH RESPECT TO A
UTILITY USERS’ TAX.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: Chapter 3.26 of the Municipal Code is hereby added, and it shall read as
follows:

CHAPTER 3.26

UTILITY USERS’ TAX

3.26.010	Short Title.

3.26.020	Definitions.

3.26.030	Constitutional. Statutory, and Other Exemptions.

3.26.040	Refuse Hauling Tax.

3.26.050	Telecommunication Tax

3.26.060	Video Tax

3.26.070	Electricity Tax

3.26.080	Gas Tax

3.26.090	Collection of tax from service users receiving direct purchase of gas or
electricity.

3.26.100	Water Tax

3.26.110	Sewer Tax

3.26.120	Bundling Taxable Items with Non-taxable Items

3.26.130	Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

3.26.140	Duty to collect—Procedures.

3.26.150	Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers.

3.26.160	Actions to Collect.

3.26.170	Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

3.26.180	Administrative Remedy - Non-Paving Service Users.

3.26.190	Additional powers and duties of the Tax Administrator.

3.26.200	Records.

3.26.210	Refunds.

3.26.220	Appeals.

3.26.230	Notice No hminction/Writ of Mandate.

3.26.240	Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

3.26.250	Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization.

3.26.260	Independent Audit of Tax Collection. Exemption. Remittance, and Expenditure.

3.26.270	Remedies Cumulative.

3.26.280	Required Findings Every Two Years - Termination of Utility Users Tax.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 5 of28

3.26.010	Short Title

This chapter shall be known as the "Utility Users’ Tax Ordinance" of the City.

3.26.020	Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter shall be construed as
defined in this section.

(a)	“Ancillary telecommunication services” means services that are associated with of
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services, including
but not limited to the following services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that links two or more
participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision of a
telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include the telecommunications
services used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunications billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing
statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone number
information, and/or address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection with one or
more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling features that allow
customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections, including
conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer to store,
send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any vertical
services that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize the voice mail
service.

(b)	“Ancillary video services” means services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to electronic program
guide services, search functions, recording services, or other interactive services or
communications that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment
of video services.

(c)	“Billing Address” shall mean the mailing address of the service user where the
service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

(d)	“City” shall mean the City of Morgan Hill.

(e)	"Gas" shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel
which may be substituted therefor.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 6 of 28

(f)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the meaning and usage as set forth in the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations
thereunder.

(g)	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

(h)	“Non-Utility Service Supplier” means:

!

(1)	a service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all or a
significant portion of the City, which generates electricity for sale to others, and shall
include but is not limited to any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility,
cogenerator, distributed generation provider, exempt wholesale generator U.S.C.
Section 79z-5a), municipal utility district, federal power marketing agency, electric rural
cooperative, or other supplier or seller of electricity;

(2)	an electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator, pool
operator, or other electricity supplier other than a supplier of electric distribution services
to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies electricity or
supplemental services to electricity users within the City; or

(3)	a gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than a supplier of gas
distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies gas
or supplemental services to gas users within the City.

(i)	“Paging service” means a “telecommunications service” that provides transmission of
coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers; such transmissions may
include messages and/or sounds.

(j)	"Person" shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust, common
law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock
company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign,
domestic, and non-profit), municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the
City), cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order
of any court.

(k)	“Place of Primary Use” means the street address representative of where the
customer's use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which must be the
residential street address or the primary business street address of the customer.

(l)	"Post-paid telecommunication service" means the telecommunication service obtained
by making a payment on a telecommunication-by-telecommunication basis either through
the use of a credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit
card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service number which is not associated with
the origination or termination of the telecommunication service.

(m)	"Prepaid telecommunication service" means the right to access telecommunication
services, which must be paid for in advance and which enables the origination of
telecommunications using an access number or authorization code, whether manually or

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 7 of28

electronically dialed, and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the
number declines with use in a known amount.

(n)	"Private telecommunication service" means a telecommunication service that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a telecommunications channel or group of
channels between or among termination points, regardless of the maimer in which such
channel or channels are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines,
stations, and any other associated services that are provided in connection with the use of
such channel or channels. A telecommunications channel is a physical or virtual path of
telecommunications over which signals are transmitted between or among customer
channel termination points (i.e., the location where the customer either inputs or receives
the telecommunications).

(o)	"Service Address" shall mean the residential street address or the business street
address of the service user. For a telecommunication or video service user, "service
address" means either:

(1)	The location of the service user’s telecommunication or video
equipment from which the communication originates or terminates, regardless of where
the communication is billed or paid; or,

(2)	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (e.g.,
mobile telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address shall mean- the
location of the service user's place of primary use.

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” shall mean
the location associated with the service number.

(p)	"Service Supplier" shall mean any entity or person, including the City, that provides
refuse hauling, electricity, gas, water, sewer, telecommunication or video service to a
user of such service within the City.

(q)	"Service User" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under the
provisions of this Article.

(r)	“State" shall mean the State of California.

(s)	“Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement shall mean the multi-state agreement
commonly known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, and
as it is amended from time to time.

(t)	"Tax Administrator" means the Finance Director of the city or his or her designee, or
such person that assumes the tax administration responsibilities of Finance Director, if
that position is replaced in the future.

(u)	“Telecommunications services” means the transmission, conveyance, or routing of
voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or
among points, whatever the technology used. The term “telecommunications services”
includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 8 of28

applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of
transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such services are referred

to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) seivices or are classified by the Federal
Telecommunications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or
data services that is functionally integrated with “telecommunication services”.
“Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to the following services,
regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed:
ancillary telecommunication sendees; mobile telecommunications service; prepaid
telecommunication service; post-paid telecommunication service; ~ private
telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers
designated by the Federal Telecommunications Commission); 900 service (or any other
similar numbers designated by the Federal Telecommunications Commission for services
whereby subscribers who call in to pre-recorded or live service).

(v)	“Video Programming” means those programming services commonly provided to
subscribers by a “video service supplier” including but not limited to basic services,
premium services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on demand,
origination programming, or any other similar services, regardless of the content of such
video programming, or the technology used to deliver such services, and regardless of the
manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed.

(w)	“Video Services” means “video programming” and any and all services related to the
providing, recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of “video programming” (including
origination programming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-
Video) using one or more channels by a “video service supplier”, regardless of the
technology used to deliver, store or provide such services, and regardless of the manner
or basis on which such services are calculated or billed, and includes ancillary video
services, data services, “telecommunication services”, or interactive communication
services that are functionally integrated with “video services”.

(x)	“Video Service Supplier” means any person, company, or service which provides or
sells one or more channels of video programming, or provides or sells the capability to
receive one or more channels of video progr amming, including any telecommunications
that are ancillary, necessary or common to the provision, use or enjoyment of the video
programming, to or from a business or residential address in the City, where some fee is
paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that service, whether or
not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or
telecommunications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited to,
multichannel video programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section
522(13)]; open video systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television; master
antenna television; satellite master antemia television; multichannel multipoint
distribution services (MMDS); video services using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-
Video, which provide, among other things, broadcasting and video on demand), direct
broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its video services, now or
in the future; and other suppliers of video services (including two-way communications),
whatever their technology.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 9 of 28

(y)	VoIP (voice over internet protocol) means the digital process of making and
receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

(z)	“800 service” means a “telecommunications service” that allows a caller to dial a
toll-free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically marketed
under the name “800”, “855”, “866”, “877”, and “888” toll-free calling, and any
subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

(aa) “900 service” means an inbound toll “telecommunications service” purchased by a
subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s prerecorded
announcement or live service. “900 service” does not include the charge for: collection
services provided by the seller of the “telecommunications services” to the subscriber, or
service or product sold by the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is
typically marketed under the name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

3.26.030	Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions.

(a)	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person or
service when the imposition of such tax upon such person or service would be in
violation of a federal or state statute, the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the State.

(b)	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Chapter pursuant to
subsection (a) of this section shall file an application with the Tax Administrator for an
exemption; provided, however, this-requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a
state or federal agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized name for such
service. Said application shall be made upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator
and shall state those facts, declared under penalty of pequry, which qualify the applicant
for an exemption, and shall include the names of all utility service suppliers serving that
service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service user shall give the
Tax Administrator timely written notice of any change in utility service suppliers so that
the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new utility service supplier of the service
user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this section shall not be
entitled to a refund of utility users’ taxes collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator
from such service user as a result of such noncompliance.

The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 3.26.220 of
this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the Chief
Executive Officer pursuant to Section 3.26.220 of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a suit
thereon.

3.26.040	Refuse hauling user tax.

(a). There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city receiving refuse hauling
services from the city or any refuse hauler franchised by the city. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for such refuse
hauling service.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 10 of28

(b)	. As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components
and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of refuse
hauling service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or
bundled rate for refuse hauling service to retail customers. The term “charges” shall
include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges, annual
and monthly charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary for or
common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of refuse hauling service; and, charges, fees, or

surcharges-for sewer services or programs, which are mandated by the City, a state or
federal agency, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or
line item basis on the customer billing.

(c)	The tax on refuse hauling service imposed by this section shall be collected from the
service user by the refuse hauling service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month.

3.26.050	Telecommunication Users’ Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
telecommunication services, including intrastate, interstate, and international
telecommunication services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two
percent (2%) of the charges made for such services and shall be collected from the
service user by the telecommunication services supplier or its billing agent. There is a
rebuttable presumption that telecommunication services, which are billed to a billing or
service address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City's boundaries, and
such services are subject to taxation under this Chapter. If the billing address of the
service user is different from the service address, the service address of the service user
shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this Section, the term
“charges” shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or
nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the
telecommunication services.

(b)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” shall be sourced in accordance with the
sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section
124). The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter, sourcing
rules for the taxation of other telecommunication services, including but not limited to
post-paid telecommunication services, and prepaid telecommunication services, provided
that such rules are based upon custom and common practice that further administrative
efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation (e.g., Streamline Sales and Use Tax
Agreement).

(c)	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter, an
administrative ruling identifying those telecommunication services, or charges therefor,
that are subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Pagellof28

(d)	As used in this section, the term “telecommunication services” shall include, but are
not limited to charges for: connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change
of telecommunication services; late payment fees; detailed billing; central office and
custom calling features(including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller
identification and three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging services; directory
assistance; access and line charges; universal service charges; regulatory, administrative
and other cost recovery charges; and local number portability charges.
“Telecommunication services” shall not include digital downloads that are not “ancillary
telecommunications services”, such as books, music, ringtones, games, and similar digital
products.

(e)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telecommunication services subject
to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the
service user has previously paid the same tax in another state or local jurisdiction on such
telecommunication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the
extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state or local jurisdiction;
provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under
this section.

(f)	The tax on telecommunication services imposed by this section shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one (1)
month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

3.26.060	Video Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using video services.
The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges
made for such services and shall be collected from the service user by the video service
supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that video services, which
are billed to a billing or service address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within
the City's boundaries, and such services are subject to taxation under this Chapter. If the
billing address of the service user is different from the service address, the service
address of the service user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, charges
for the following:

(1)	regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees and access fees (PEG);

(2)	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of
telecommunication services;

(3)	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

(4)	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

(5)	video programming and video services;

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 12 of 28

(6)	ancillary video programming services (e.g., electronic program guide services, search
functions, recording functions, or other interactive services or communications that are
ancillary, necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of the video services);

(7)	equipment leases (e.g., remote, recording and/or search devises; converters); and,

(8)	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services, and special
services.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the video services.

(d)	. The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to video service suppliers, which
are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter, an administrative ruling
identifying those video1 services, or charges therefor, that are subject to or not subject to
the tax of subsection (a) above.

(e)	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the video
service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services. In the case of video
service, the service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video service
(e.g., an apartment owner), unless such service is resold to individual users, in which case
the service user shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video service. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month.

3.26.070	Electricity Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electricity in the City. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for
such electricity, and for any supplemental services or other associated activities directly
related to and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the service user, which are
provided by a service supplier or non-utility service supplier to a service user. The tax
shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service
supplier, or its billing agent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall not apply to
any individual who qualifies, and has been accepted, for the California Alternate Rates
for Energy (CARE) Program pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Sections 327
and 739.1 et. seq., and as it may be amended from time to time. In the event that the
CARE Program is repealed or otherwise ceases to exist in a substantially similar form,
the exemption granted under this subsection shall automatically terminate.

(b)	As used in this section, the temi “charges” shall apply to all services, components and
items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric
service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate
for electric service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The
term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 13 of 28

(1)	energy charges;

(2)	distribution or transmission charges;

(3)	metering charges;

(4)	stand-by, reserves, firming,.ramping, voltage support, regulation, emergency, or other
similar charges for supplemental services to self-generation service users;

(5)	customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges,
demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange charges, independent
system operator (ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive transition charges
(CTC), public puipose program charges, nuclear decommissioning charges, trust transfer
amounts (bond financing charges), franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and
monthly charges, and other charges, fees or surcharges which are necessary for or
common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service; and,

(6)	charges, fees, or surcharges for. electricity services or programs which are mandated
by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line
item basis on the customer billing.

(c)	As used in this section, the term ‘‘charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision of such
electricity.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric service suppliers
to identify the various unbundled billing components of electric retail service that they
commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the of the City,
and the charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by state or federal
regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such electric service. The Tax
Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such electric service suppliers an
administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary for
or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service; or, ii) currently are or
historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components and
items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(e)	As used in this section, the term “using electricity” shall not include the mere
receiving of such electricity by an electrical corporation or governmental agency at a
point within the City for resale.

(f)	The tax on electricity provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier
not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected and remitted in the manner set
forth in Section 3.26.090 of this Chapter. All other taxes on charges for electricity
imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the electric service
supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of the person
required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of
tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the
service user, which must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of the following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted
payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 14 of 28

calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied
against any subsequent remittance that becomes due.

3.26.080	Gas Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the City, which is
transported and delivered through a pipeline or by mobile transport. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for such gas,
including all services related to the storage, transportation and delivery of such gas. The
tax shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service
supplier, or its billing agent, and shall apply to all uses of gas, including but not limited
to, heating, electricity generation, and the use of gas as a component of a manufactured
product. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall not apply to any individual who
qualifies, and has been accepted, for the California Alternate Rates for Energy (CARE)
Program pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Sections 327 and 739.1 et. ., and
as it may be amended from time to time. In the event that the CARE Program is repealed
or otherwise ceases to exist in a substantially similar form, the exemption granted under
this subsection shall automatically terminate.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and

items for gas service that are:	i)	necessary	for or common to the receipt, use or

enjoyment of gas service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a
single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a class of retail
customers. The term “charges" shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	the commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned by the service
user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting, storage,
gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with the production
and delivery of such gas), which is delivered through a gas pipeline distribution system;

(2)	gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not included in
commodity charges);

(3)	storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier shall not be required to
apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the service supplier cannot, as
a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where such stored gas is ultimately used; but
it shall be the obligation of the service user to self-collect the amount of tax not applied to
any charge for gas storage by the service supplier and to remit the tax to the appropriate
jurisdiction;

(4)	capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, transition charges, customer charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly
charges, and any other charges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment of gas service; and,

(5)	charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs which are mandated by the
California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on
the customer billing.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 15 of 28

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the gas or services related to the delivery of such gas.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas service suppliers to
identify the various unbundled billing components of gas retail service that they
commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the
charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory
agencies as a condition of providing such gas service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter,
may issue and disseminate to such gas service suppliers an administrative ruling
identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary for or common to the
receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been
included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the
tax of subsection (a) above.

(e)	There shall be excluded from the calculation of the tax imposed in this section,
charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution
system.

(f)	The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier not
under the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected and remitted in the manner set
forth in Section 3.26.090 of this Chapter. All other taxes on charges for gas imposed by
this section shall be collected from the service user by the gas service supplier or its
billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator, on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of the person required to collect
and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the
tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user, which
must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the
following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted payment or request
for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The
credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent
remittance that becomes due.

3.26.090	Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas or
Electricity.

(a)	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by Section 3.26.070 or by Section

3.26.080	of this Chapter, which produces gas or electricity for self-use; which receives
gas or electricity, including any related supplemental services, directly from a non-utility
service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter; or which, for any other reason,
is not having the full tax collected and remitted by its service supplier, a non-utility
• service supplier, or its billing agent on the use of gas or electricity in the City, including
any related supplemental services, shall report said fact to the Tax Administrator and
shall remit the tax due directly to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such
use, based on the charges for, or value of, such gas or electricity, or supplemental
services, as provided in subsection (b). In lieu of paying said actual tax, the service user

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 16 of28

may, at its option, remit to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use an
estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the
payment pattern of similar customers of the service supplier using similar amounts of gas
or electricity, provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request
for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The
credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator in writing, may be applied against any
subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may require said service user to identify its non-utility service
supplier, and otherwise provide, subject to audit: invoices; books of account; or other
satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used, including any
related supplemental services, and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is unable
to provide such satisfactory evidence, or if the administrative cost of calculating the tax
in the opinion of the Tax Administrator is • excessive, the Tax Administrator may
determine the tax by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user
would have incurred if the gas or electricity used, including any related supplemental
services, had been provided by the service supplier that is the primary supplier of gas or
electricity within the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from the
City.

3.26.100	Water Tax.

There is imposed a tax upon every person using water in the City which is transported
and delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for such water.

As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and
items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water
service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate
for water service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term
“charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:
water commodity charges (potable and non-potable);
distribution or transmission charges;
metering charges;

customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges,
franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and other charges, fees
and surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of
water service; and,

charges, fees, or surcharges for water services or programs, which are mandated by a
water district or a state or federal agency, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges
appear on a bundled, or line item basis on the customer billing.

As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service
user in exchange for the water services.

The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the water service suppliers in the
City to identify the various unbundled billing components of water retail service that they
commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the
charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by a water district or a state or
federal agency as a condition of providing such water service. The Tax Administrator,

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 17 of 28

thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such water service suppliers an administrative
ruling identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary for or common to
the receipt, use or enjoyment of water service; or, ii) currently are or historically have
been included in a single or bundled rate for water service by a local distribution
company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be
subject to the tax of subsection A above.

There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is
computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline
distribution system; and charges made by a municipal water department, public utility or

a city or municipal water district for water used and consumed by such department,
public utility or water district in the conduct of the business of such department, utility or
district.

The tax on water service imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user
by the water service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1)
month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

3.26.110	Sewer Tax

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using sewer services
within the city. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of
the charges made for such sewer service. The tax shall be paid by the person using such
sewer service.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components
and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of sewer
service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate
for sewer service to retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited
to, the following charges:

customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges, annual
and monthly charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary for or
common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of sewer service; and,

charges, fees, or surcharges for sewer services or programs, which are mandated by the
City, a state or federal agency, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on
a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

(c)	The tax on sewer service imposed by this section shall be collected from the service
user by the sewer service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one

(1)	month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

3.26.120	Bundling Taxable Items with Non-Taxable Items.

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable
service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge
is subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable
standards, the portions of the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through
the service supplier's books and records kept in the regular course of business, and in

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 18 of 28

accordance	with generally accepted	accounting	principles,	and	not	created	and

maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges. If the service supplier offers a
combination of taxable and hon-taxable services, and the charges are separately stated,
then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall
be based on its books and records kept in the regular course of business and in
accordance	with generally accepted	accounting	prihciples,	and	not	created	and

maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
valuation of the taxable and non-taxable services.

3.26.130	Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this
Chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor
of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent
permitted by state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial
interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any telecommunication service (including
VoIP) used by a person with a service address in the City, which service is capable of
terminating a call to another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to

a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes
of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this Chapter. A
service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the City for tax collection
and remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any of the
following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent, affiliate, or
subsidiary, a place of business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees,
independent contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the
City on a continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is
broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the City or distributed from a location
within the City; or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published
within the City or through materials distributed in the City by means other than the
United States mail; or if there are activities performed in the City on behalf of the service
supplier that are significantly associated with the service supplier’s ability to establish
and maintain a market in the City for the provision of services that are subject to a tax
under this Chapter

3.26.140	Duty to Collect—Procedures.

(a) Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit
the taxes imposed by the provisions of this Chapter shall be performed as follows:

(1)	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at the same time
as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance with the regular
billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by a service user to a
service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge and tax which was accrued for
the billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to
have been paid. In those cases where a service user has notified the service supplier of
refusal to pay the tax imposed on said charges, Section 3.26.180 shall apply.

(2)	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall commence

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 19 of28

with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the service user where
all charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this
Chapter. Where a sendee user receives more than one billing, one or more being for
different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing
period.

(b)	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this Chapter to remit a tax
shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax Administrator,
on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included with the
return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to
require such additional information as he or she deems necessary to determine if the tax

is being levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter. Returns are due
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax
Code Section 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing
returns as confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the
Public Records Act.

3.26.150	Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers.

(a)	Taxes collected by service supplier from a service user are delinquent if not received
by the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a
weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator on the
first regular working day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit,
including electronic -fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically
exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by a service supplier in satisfaction
of its obligations under this subsection shall be considered timely if the transfer is
initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer settles into the City’s account on the
following business day.

(b)	If the person required to collect and/or remit the utility users’ tax fails to collect the
tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or charges on the(
customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before the due date, the Tax
Administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of
fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and
shall pay interest at the rate of and 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon
persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter for
fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of
the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the
Tax Administrator.

(d)	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is accrued
under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be
paid.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 20 of 28

(e). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her discretion,
modify the due dates of this Chapter to be consistent with any uniform standards or
procedures that are mutually agreed upon by other public agencies imposing a utility
users tax, or otherwise legally established, to create a central payment location or
mechanism.

3.26.160	Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a service
user which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed

to the City by the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the
service user. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter
shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such
amount, including penalties and interest as provided for in this Chapter, along with any
collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the person’s noncompliance with this
Chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees. Any tax required to be
collected by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an unsecured priority excise
tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(.

3.26.170	Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she determines
that any service supplier or service user required to pay, collect, and/or remit taxes
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter has failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the
proper amount of tax by improperly or failing to apply the tax to one or more taxable
services or charges. Nothing herein sh.all require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this Section 3.26.170 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the
cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the
person or entity allegedly owing the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the amount of
the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.15%) percent per month, or any
fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have
been received by the City. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of service of
such notice, the person or entity allegedly owing the tax may request in writing to the Tax
Administrator for a hearing on the matter,

(c)	If the person or entity allegedly owing the tax fails to request a hearing within the
prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final
assessment, and shall immediately be due and owing to the City. If the person requests a
hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be
scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice
of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator to such
person or entity at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax
Administrator desires said person or entity to produce specific records at such hearing,
such notice may designate the records requested to be produced.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 21 of 28

(d)	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant
testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the discretion of
the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be continued from time to time for the puipose of
allowing the presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the
conclusion of the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-
assessment), thereafter, by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency
determination, and shall mail a copy of such final assessment to person or entity owing
the tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section

3.26.220	of this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to
the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 3.26.220 of this Chapter is a prerequisite
to a suit thereon.

(e)	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of receipt of the
notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on
the total amount of the assessment, along with interest at the rate of.75/100ths (0.75%)
percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations
regarding a claim by the City seeking payment of a tax assessed under this Chapter shall
commence from the date of delinquency as provided in this subsection (e).

(f)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall
be deemed received oh the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as
established by a proof of mailing.

3.26.180	Administrative Remedy - Non-Paying Service Users.

(a)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately
withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a
person required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best
interest of the City, he or she may relieve such person of the obligation to collect the
taxes due under this Chapter from certain named service users for specific billing periods.
To the extent the service user has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of
two (2) or more billing periods, the. service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to
collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide the City with the names and
addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of
this Chapter. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this Section 3.26.180 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the
cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(b)	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty at the rate
of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay interest at the rate of
75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for 'the stated
periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice
shall be served on the service user by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 22 of 28

i

United States ma(l, postage prepaid, addressed to the service user at the address to which
billing was made by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user
have a change of address, to his or her last known address.

(d)	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30)
days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Administrator
may impose an additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the total tax
that is owed.

3.26.190	Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this Chapter.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent with
provisions of this Chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and
enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of
such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's
office. To the extent that the Tax Administrator determines that the tax imposed under
this chapter shall not be collected in full for any period of time from any particular
service supplier or service user, that determination shall be considered an exercise of the
Tax Administrator's discretion to settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in
taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The

Tax Administrator is not authorized to amend the City's methodology for puiposes of
Government Code Section 53750 and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability to
impose the utility users’ tax in full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or
entering into agreements,

(c)	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict
requirements of this Chapter and thereby: (1) conform to the billing procedures of a
particular service supplier so long as said agr eements result in the collection of the tax in
conformance with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter; or, (2) to avoid a
hardship where the administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the
tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's
office, and are voidable by the Tax Administrator or the City at any time.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter, of any person required to collect and/or remit a tax pursuant
to this Chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said person of the initiation of an
audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period
of review shall not exceed a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of
the written notice by said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the
audit, the Tax Administrator may make a deficiency determination pursuant to Section

3.26.170	of this Chapter for all taxes (and applicable penalties and interest) owed and not
paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If
said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax
Administrator to verify compliance with this Chapter, the Tax Administrator .is

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 23 of 28

authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate
shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

(e)	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax
Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to this
Chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided1 that the time for filing
the required statement has not already passed when the request is received. No penalty
for delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue
during said extension at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, prorated for any
portion thereof.

(f)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a right
to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Chapter.

(g)	Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapter to the contrary, the Tax Administrator
may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required to collect and/or remit
for failure to collect the tax imposed by this Chapter if the non-collection occurred in
good faith. In determining whether the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax
Administrator shall take into consideration industry practice or other precedence.

Sec,3.26.200 Records.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax
imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least thr ee (3) years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have
been liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records
the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

(b)	The City, through the City Council, may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a
person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the
Tax Administrator to establish compliance with this Chapter, including the delivery of
records in a common electronic format on readily available media if such records are kept
electronically by the person in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an
alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the
due date provided in the administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to
such records outside the City on or before the due date, provided that such person shall
reimburse the City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect
those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding
the normal salary or hourly wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct the
inspection.

(c)	The Tax. Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement approved
by the City Counsel to protect the confidentiality of customer information pursuant to
California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.

(d)	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or
remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator the name,
address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently
authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii)
upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information
or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 24 of 28

s

of the Tax Administrator,, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

(e)	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably denies the
Tax Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the information requested in
an administrative subpoena within the time specified, then the Tax Administrator may
impose a penalty of $500 on such person for each day following: i) the initial date that
the person refuses to provide such access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as
set forth in the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
penalty imposed under this Chapter.

3.26.210	Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter
from a service user or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this section:

(a)	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid or paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator
under this Chapter from a service user or service supplier, provided that no refund shall
be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian,
conservator, executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax
Administrator within one year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of

said tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by written
records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on
behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each member of the class has submitted a
written claim under penalty of perjury as provided by this subsection.

(b)	The Tax Administrator, where the claim is less than the settlement authority

established in 2.08.040(S) of the Municipal Code, or the City Council where the claim is
in excess of that amount, shall act upon the refund claim within forty-five (45) days of
the initial receipt of the refund claim. Said decision shall be final. If the Tax
Administrator/City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the forty-five
(45) day period, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the Tax
Administrator/City Council on the forty-fifth (45th) day. The Tax Administrator shall
give notice of the action in a form which substantially complies with that set forth in
Government Code Section	913.

(c)	The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government Code Section 935 is a
prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to this
section shall be subject to the provisions of Government Code Sections 945.6 and 946.

(d)	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, the Tax
Administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to a service supplier,
who has collected and remitted any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed
by this Chapter, to claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is
due the City upon a subsequent monthly retum(s) to the Tax Administrator, provided
that: i) such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from the date of

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 25 of 28

overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax; ii) the Tax Administrator is satisfied that
the underlying basis and amount of such credit has been reasonably established; and, iii)
in the case of an overpayment by a service user to the service supplier that has been
remitted to the City, the Tax Administrator has received proof, to his or her satisfaction,
that the overpayment has been refunded by the service supplier to the service user in an
amount equal to the requested credit.

(e). Notwithstanding subsections (a) though (d) above, a service supplier shall be entitled
to take any overpayment as a credit against an underpayment whenever such
overpayment has been received by' the City within the three (3) years next preceding a
deficiency determination or assessment by the Tax Administrator in connection with an
audit instituted by the Tax Administrator pursuant to Section 3.26.190(d). A service

supplier shall not be entitled to said credit unless it first clearly establishes, to the
satisfaction of the Tax Administrator, the right to the credit by written records showing
entitlement thereto. Under no circumstances shall an overpayment taken as a credit
against an underpayment pursuant to this subsection qualify a service supplier for a
refund to which it would not otherwise be entitled under the one-year written claim
requirement of this section.

3.26.220	Appeals.

(a)	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating to a
refund pursuant to Section 3.26.210 of this Chapter), deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any person aggrieved by
any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.26.210 of

this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator, shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of this section.
Compliance with this section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government
Code Section 935(b)]. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action on
behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

(b)	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund
pursuant to Section 3.26.210 of this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may appeal to the City Manager
by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of
the decision, deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator which aggrieved the service user or service supplier.

(c)	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before the City Manager, or his or her
designee, no more than thirty (30)' days from the receipt of the appeal. The appellant
shall be served with notice of the time and place of the hearing, as well as any relevant
materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be
continued from time to time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the
appealing party, the Tax Administrator, and any other interested person may present such
relevant evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination from which the
appeal is taken.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 26 of 28

(d)	Based upon the submission of such ^evidence and the review of the City’s files, the

hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or reversing
the determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within
fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the
decision. The notice shall specify that the decision is final and that any petition for
judicial review shall be filed within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in
accordance .with	Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.

(e)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall
be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as
established by a proof of mailing.

3.26.230	No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer of the City
. to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected and/or remitted.

3.26.240	Notice of changes to ordinance.

If a tax under this Chapter is added repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is
changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of California Public
Utilities Code Section 799.

3.26.250	Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that
such reference to a statute herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or
to any subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of
law with the duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of
interpretation would require voter approval under California law, or to the extent that
such change would result in a tax decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of a
utility service, or charge therefor, from taxation). Only to the extent voter approval
would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would result, the prior version of the
statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any application or situation that
would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the
amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum possible
extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this
Chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no
amendment or modification of this Chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those
changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization
up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this Chapter.

3.26.260	Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption, Remittance, and

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 27 of 28

Expenditure.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Chapter have been properly
applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter, and properly
expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual verification shall be
performed by a qualified independent third party and the review shall employ reasonable,
cost-effective steps to assure compliance, including the use of sampling audits. The
verification shall not be required of tax remitters where the cost of the verification may
exceed the tax revenues to be reviewed.

3.26.270	Remedies Cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Chapter or which are available under any
other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims
Act ( Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act
(Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et seq), are cumulative. The use of one
or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of this Chapter.

3.26.280	Required Findings Every Two Years — Termination of Utility Users Tax.

(a)	The City Council shall review the need for the utility users tax imposed by this
Chapter not later than June 30, 2011, and every two years thereafter, and shall, by a two
thirds (2/3) vbte of the Council, make findings that the utility users tax imposed by this
Chapter is necessary for the financial health of the City. In the event the City Council
fails to make such required findings by any such review date, the levy of taxes as

provided in this Chapter shall terminate on December 31st of the year in which the City
Council fails to make the required findings.

(b)	The termination of the levy of taxes as provided herein shall not terminate the
obligation to pay taxes levied on services used prior to such date. Taxes levied prior to
such date shall remain a debt payable to the City. All provisions in this Chapter, except
those relating to the levy of taxes, shall continue with full force and effect after such date.

(c)	Nothing herein is intended to constitute an extension or an increase in a tax requiring
voter approval under California Constitution Article XUIC\ and to the extent that this
Section 3.26.280 is found to invoke such a requirement, this Section 3.26.280 shall be
deemed null and void ab initio.

SECTION 2. Effective Date. This chapter shall become effective immediately
upon the date that this Ordinance is confirmed and approved by the voters of the City of
Morgan Hill at the Election of November 4,2008.

SECTION 3. Amendment or Repeal. Chapter 3.26 of the Municipal Code
may be repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of the people. However,
as required by Chapter XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for
any amendment provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this
Ordinance. The People of the City of Morgan Hill affirm that the following actions shall
not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 28 of 28

1.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this
Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

2.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some
prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this
Ordinance.

3.	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or excepted from the tax or the
discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the discontinuation of an
exemption or exception specifically set forth in this Ordinance); and

4.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the City had, for some
period of time, failed to collect the tax.

SECTION 4. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall
nonetheless remain in lull force and effect. The people hereby declares that they would
have adopted each section^ subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 5. Execution. The Mayor of the City Council is hereby authorized to
attest to the adoption of this Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing where
indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED
and ADOPTED by the people of the City of Morgan Hill voting on the 4th day of
November, 2008.

Mayor

ATTEST:

City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney

City of Morgan Hill

Joint Regular City Council and

Regular Redevelopment Agency Meeting

Minutes - July 23,2008

Page - 7 -

City Council Action

OTHER BUSINESS:

22.	ADOPT A RESOLUTION SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS A UTILITY USER TAX
ORDINANCE AT THE NOVEMBER 4.2008 GENERAL ELECTION

Action:This item was removed from the agenda. Please refer to the July 23, 2008 Special
Meeting Minutes as this item was considered under said meeting agenda.

City Council Action

PUBLIC HEARINGS:

23.	2008	WEED	ABATEMENT	PROGRAM	ASSESSMENT	REPORT	-	PROGRAM

CHARGES

Council Services & Records Manager Torrez informed the Council that the City contracts with the Santa
Clara County Fire Department to assist with protecting citizens from hazardous vegetation. She said that
earlier this year, the Santa Clara County Fire Department, via the Department of Agricultural and
Environmental Management, mailed notices to property owners who were identified as having
hazardous vegetation and informing them of the requirements to abate brush and weeds. The Council is
being asked to conduct a public hearing on the 2008 Weed Abatement Program Assessment Report
regarding the program charges relating to weed abatement work performed by the County. She informed
the Council that 21 properties had weed abatement work performed by the County. She indicated that
Moe Kumre, Agricultural and Environmental Management Weed Abatement Coordinator, would be
addressing the abatement work and charges to be assessed to properties.

Ms. Torrez indicated that she forwarded an e-mail to the City Council from Ms. Hill who is representing
her father’s property where weeds were abated. She noted that Ms. Hill is objecting to what she believes
are excessive administrative fees. She informed the Council that she had a lengthy discussion with Ms,
Hill this afternoon, and that it was Ms. Hill’s request that the Council continue her matter to allow her to
abate whatever work needs to be done, and to give her the ability to hire a contractor to perform the
work. She requested the Council open the public hearing, receive any comments regarding the
assessment report, and to adopt a resolution authorizing the County Assessor’s Office to assess the
abatement charges to the tax rolls; deleting Situs 8, the Delucchi Associates property and Situs 15, Black
Oak Court property.

Moe Kumre, Weed Abatement Coordinator for Santa Clara County, Department of Agricultural and
Environmental Management, informed the Council that there were 359 properties on the Program to be
monitored for the 2008 fire season. Of these properties, work was ordered on 88 parcels with 21
properties requiring work to be performed by the County contractor. This resulted in a 94% compliance
rate by the citizens of Morgan Hill. He requested two changes be made to the assessment list: Situs 8,
APN 726-31-025 owned by Delucchi Associates; and Situs 15, APN 764-03-013 owned by Robert
Foster. No charges are to be assessed to these two Situs as the work performed was outside the
boundaries of the parcels, and that the property owners should not be responsible for any of the charges.

Mayor Tate opened the public hearing. No comments being offered, the public hearing was closed.

//»

CITY OF MORGAN HILL

CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
MEETING DA TE: July 2008

ADOPT A RESOLUTION SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS A
UTILITY USER TAX (UUT) ORDINANCE AT THE
NOVEMBER 4, 2008 GENERAL ELECTION

Agenda Item #

tt.

Prepared By:

Asst, to the City
Manager

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

(1)	Adopt ballot language;

(2)	Adopt Resolution submitting measure to the voters at the November 4,

2008 municipal election seeking voter approval for a 2% Utility Users’ Tax;	'

(3)	Adopt Resolution establishing a process for arguments for and against the proposed measure;

(4)	Consider adopting the proposed ballot argument in favor of the measure; and

(5)	Consider adopting a resolution authorizing filing of rebuttal arguments submitted at municipal elections

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:

In response to Council direction and comments at the July 2,2008 Council Meeting, staff has prepared a UUT
ordinance for the Council’s consideration. If Council elects to place the ordinance before the voters, it will be placed
on the November 4,2008 General Election. Should the general tax be approved by a majority of the voters, the
proposed ordinance would levy a two percent tax on the consumptions of gas, electric, water, sewer, garbage and
telecommunications. The proposed ordinance includes low-income exemptions.

In order to place the proposed ordinance on the November 4, 2008 ballot, state election law requires that certain
procedures be followed by the Council, which are outlined in more detail in attached memorandum (Attachment I).
First, Council needs to approve the language for the ballot question. Second, Council needs to adopt a resolution
requesting the services of the Registrar of Voters of Santa Clara County to conduct the election and directing the
City Attorney to submit an impartial analysis to the City Clerk. Third, Council needs to determine the process for
submission of an argument in favor of the measure. Fourth, if Council elects to be the author of the argument in
favor, Council needs to consider whether to adopt the argument at this Council Meeting or defer the adoption until
the August 6,2008 Council Meeting. Finally, the Council may want to consider adopting a resolution to establish a
process for rebuttal arguments, if desired.

The deadline to submit materials to the County Registrar of Voters for inclusion on the November 4, 2008 general
election ballot is 5:00 p.m. on Friday, August 8,2008. The ballot arguments must be submitted to the City Clerk by
5:00 p.m. on August 13, 2008, any rebuttals must be submitted by 5:00 p.m. on August 20, 2008. If there is no
argument put forward in opposition to the ballot measure, then there will be no rebuttal arguments.

For the City Council to place a general tax on the ballot it is necessary that two-thirds (2/3) of the body vote in the
affirmative. In our case that means that at least four (4) Council votes must be cast in favor of placing the item on
the Ballot regardless of the number of council members present. On the other hand a simple majority of three (3)
votes is sufficient to place a special tax on the ballot.

FISCAL/RESOURCE IMPACT:

The actual cost of the election will not be known until the City receives an invoice from the County after the election
has been completed. The anticipated cost to place each local measure on the November 2008 ballot is approximately
$39,000. There was $78,000 budgeted in the Council and Records Services FY 2008/09 budget for ballot costs
associated for two measures. If the costs exceed this amount, staff will return to the Council to seek appropriation for
additional funds to cover the additional costs.

-i 7*7 -

This Page Left Blank Intentionally

-178“

CITY OF MORGAN HILL

Attachment /

Memorandum

Date:	July 18,2008

To;	Ed Tewes, City Manager

From:	Brian Stott, Assistant to the City Manager

Subject: Consideration of Placing a Proposed Utility Users Tax (UUT) on the November 4,2008 Ballot for
Voter Consideration

Introduction

The City Council has been exploring public safety service levels for the past 18 months and has made the
determination that both po!ice/and fire and emergency medical services in Morgan Hill should be enhanced as the
City becomes larger and more complex. Although the City Council has made the determination'that public safety
services should be enhanced, the City’s current resources are not adequate to expand service levels. The City
Council has been exploring potential opportunities to fund these enhancements through a voter approved tax
measure targeted for the November 2008 General Election.

To adequately fund the identified police and fire service level enhancements would require approximately $4
million annually, which equates to a five percent Utility Users Tax (UUT). At the April 23, 2008 City Council
Meeting, the Council indicated their preferred tax measure would prioritize police services, which would require
only a two percent UUT instead of five percent for both police and fire. In an effort to enhance fire and EMS
service levels, the City Council has directed staff to continue pursuing annexation to the Santa Clara County Fire
Protection District or other regional service delivery models that would allow for expansion of current services.

Background

In response to Council direction and comments at the July 2,2008 Council Meeting, staff has prepared a UUT
ordinance for the Council’s consideration. If Council elects to place the ordinance before the voters, it will be
placed on the November 4,2008 General Election. Should the general tax be approved by a majority of the voters,
the proposed ordinance would levy a two percent tax on the consumptions of gas, electric, water, sewer, garbage
and telecommunications. The proposed ordinance includes low-income exemptions. The proceeds of this tax may
be used for any public purpose. The Council has expressed its intent to allocate the proceeds to pay for expansion
of staffing in the police department.

In addition, in order to place the proposed ordinance on the November 4, 2008 ballot, state election law requires
that certain procedures be followed by the Council. First, Council needs to approve the language for the ballot
question. Second, Council needs to adopt a resolution requesting the services of the Registrar of Voters of Santa
Clara County to conduct the election and directing the City Attorney to submit an impartial analysis to the City
Clerk. Third, Council needs to determine the process for submission of an argument in favor of the measure.
Finally, the Council may want to consider adopting a resolution to establish a process for rebuttal arguments, if

Page 1 of 8

I -1 A

Attachment /

Memorandum

CITY OF MORGAN HILL

Date:	July 18, 2008

To:	Ed Tewes, City Manager

From:	Brian	Stott,	Assistant	to	the	City	Manager

Subject: Consideration of Placing a Proposed Utility Users Tax (UUT) on the November 4,2008 Ballot for
Voter Consideration

Introduction

The City Council has been exploring public safety service levels for the past 18 months and has made the
determination that both police,and fire and emergency medical services in Morgan Hill should be enhanced as the
City becomes larger and more complex. Although the City Council has made the determination that public safety
services should be enhanced, the City’s current resources are not adequate to expand service levels. The City
Council has been exploring potential opportunities to fund these enhancements through a voter approved tax
measure targeted for the November 2008 General Election.

To adequately fund the identified police and fire service level enhancements would require approximately $4
million annually, which equates to a five percent Utility Users Tax (UUT). At the April 23,2008 City Council
Meeting, the Council indicated their preferred tax measure would prioritize police services, which would require
only a two percent UUT instead of five percent for both police and fire. In an effort to enhance fire and EMS
service levels, the City Council has directed staff to continue pursuing annexation to the Santa Clara County Fire
Protection District or other regional service delivery models that would allow for expansion of current services.

Background

In response to Council direction and comments at the July 2,2008 Council Meeting, staff has prepared a UUT
ordinance for the Council’s consideration. If Council elects to place the ordinance before the voters, it will be
placed on the November 4,2008 General Election. Should the general tax be approved by a majority of the voters,
the proposed ordinance would levy a two percent tax on the consumptions of gas, electric, water, sewer, garbage
and telecommunications. The proposed ordinance includes low-income exemptions. The proceeds of this tax may
be used for any public purpose. The Council has expressed its intent to allocate the proceeds to pay for expansion
of staffing in the police department.

In addition, in order to place the proposed ordinance on the November 4, 2008 ballot, state election law requires
that certain procedures be followed by the Council. First, Council needs to approve the language for the ballot
question. Second, Council needs to adopt a resolution requesting the services of the Registrar of Voters of Santa
Clara County to conduct the election and directing the City Attorney to submit an impartial analysis to the City
Clerk. Third, Council needs to determine the process for submission of an argument in favor of the measure.
Finally, the Council may want to consider adopting a resolution to establish a process for rebuttal arguments, if

Page 1 of8

i -i a

desired.

At the July 2,2008 Council Meeting, staff provided a summary of actions taken to date and presented various
taxing options to Council for consideration. The City Council directed staff to return with a proposed ordinance to
adopt a UUT that includes the following features.

Tax Feature	Direction
	i
Type	Utility Users Tax in the form of a general tax
Tax Level	2%
Utilities Covered	o Electric o Gas o Water o Sewer  o Telecommunications o Video/CATV
Exemptions	Low income (PG&E Program)

In addition to the direction provided by the City Council at the July 2,2008 Council Meeting, staff, working with
the attorney assisting in the drafting the ordinance, has identified another UUT provision for consideration by the
Council. This provision requires the City Council to make findings that the tax is necessary for the financial health
of the City every two years beginning in June 2011. This was first developed in Menlo Park, who in 2006 were
successful in establishing the last new UUT ordinance in the state.

The concept of having the tax automatically expire was discussed by Council. The main drawback to this concept
is it is not fiscally sustainable, thus making it hard to provide for long-term sustainable planning. Additionally
having an automatic expiration would be counter to the City Council’s 2008 Policies and Goals and the City’s
Sustainable Budget Strategy. Instead of including a definitive end date, this proposed provision would require the
City Council to make findings that the tax is necessary for the financial health of the City every two years. This
would also allow for more frequent reviews of the tax and appropriation of funds, in essence holding the City
accountable for the expenditure of any funds raised by this new tax.

The additional language was presented to the Public Safety & Community Services Committee at its July 16,2008
meeting for consideration. The PS&CS Committee unanimously recommended the language for inclusion in
Morgan Hill’s ordinance. This section appears as section 3.24.280 of the proposed ordinance.

State Laws Affecting Local Taxes

Over time, the relative ability of cities to levy taxes has been significantly restricted through the passage of state
laws, most notably the voter-approved Proposition 13 in 1978, Proposition 62 in 1986 and Proposition 218 in
1996. While many other laws have been enacted that affect local revenue raising authority, these three initiatives
have produced the most substantive changes relative to new tax levies.

Differences Between General and Special Taxes

The passage of Propositions 13, 62 and 218 created important distinctions between types of taxes and the voter
approval needed to enact such taxes, and imposed additional procedural requirements. The first major change
created the distinction between general and special taxes. Since 1978, all local taxes fall into either one of these

PagfgfltS

categories. A general tax refers to any tax imposed for general governmental purposes and cannot by law be
restricted to only one purpose, such as police or fire, which would make it a special tax. A special tax is imposed
for specific purposes, such as benefit assessments or parcel taxes for library or public safety districts.

Voter Requirements for General and Special Taxes

This distinction between general and special taxes also created specific voter approval requirements needed to
enact either type of tax. To enact a general tax, a majority (50% + 1) is required. The votes on general taxes must
be consolidated with a regularly scheduled general election of city council members, unless a fiscal emergency is
declared. To enact a special tax, a 2/3 majority (66.7%) is required. The vote on a special tax may be held either in
conjunction with or outside of the regular council general election process at a special election.

For the City Council to place a general tax on the ballot it is necessary that two-thirds (2/3) of the body vote in the
affirmative. In our case that means that at least four (4) votes must be cast in favor of placing the item on the
agenda regardless of the number of council members present. On the other hand a simple majority of three (3)
votes is sufficient to place a special tax on the ballot.

Utility Users Tax Elements

A UUT can be levied on gas, electricity, phone (wired and wireless), cable television, water, sewer and garbage.
There are currently 146 cities in California that levy a UUT, with rates ranging from 1% to 11%. The average rate
is 5.5%. Of the 146, not all cities levy UUTs on all eligible utilities; 144 cities levy the tax on gas and electric, for
example, while 142 cities levy the tax on telephone. The following table shows the Santa Cara County cities that
levy a UUT and the rate of the tax.

City	Rate	Utilities Covered
		
Cupertino	2.4%	Gas, Electric & Telecom
Gilroy	5.0% (4.5% on telecom)	Gas, Electric & Telecom
Los Altos	3.5% (3.2% on telecom)	Gas, Electric, Telecom & Water
Mountain View	3.0%	Gas, Electric & Telecom
Palo Alto	5.0%	Gas, Electric & Telecom
San Jose	5.0%	Gas, Electric, Telecom & Water
Sunnyvale	2.0%	Gas, Electric & Telecom
		

Per the City Council’s direction at the July 2,2008 Council Meeting, the draft ordinance proposes to levy the tax
on all utilities including gas, electricity, phone (wired and wireless), cable television, water, sewer and garbage.
The draft ordinance includes a two percent tax rate, which would raise approximately $1.6 million annually before
any low-income exemptions are factored. The following table shows the average monthly cost of a two percent tax
on all utilities for a typical residential customer in Morgan Hill would cost approximately $10 per month.
However, individual bills will differ based on actual consumption and services subscribed.

Utility	Avg.	Monthly Bill		2%
telecommunications (phone and cable tv) .	$	290.00	$	5.80
PG&E (electritity/gas)	$	150.00	$	3.00
refuse	$ :	25;00	$	0.50
water/sewer	$	65.00	$	1.30
MONTHLY TOTAL		240.00^8^		10.60

The City of Morgan Hill currently ranks thirteen of fifteen among Santa Clara County cities in per capita tax rate
as displayed in the chart below.

FY 2006/07 Per Capita Tax Rate for Santa Clara County Cities

										
Palo Alto	62,615		343	354	108	150	-	$	956	1
Santa Clara	114,238		223	378	99	-	8	$	708	2
Los Gatos	29,407		292	315	38	-	40	$	684	3
Mountain View	73,262		301	235	54	71	3	$	663	4
Sunnyvale	135,721		301	236	48	48	5	$	638	5
Los Altos	28,104		388	98	52	81	14	$	633	6
Milpitas	66,568		233	281	73	-	4	$	592	7
Campbell	39,748		190	253	37	-	5	$	485	8
Gilroy	49,649		66	293	18	93	12	$	483	9
Cupertino	55,162		115	204	46	94	13	$	472	10
San Jose	973,672		195	154	22	81	12	. $	465	11
Los Altos Hills		8,607	396	9	-	-	25	$	430	12
MORGAN HILL	38,418		154	171	29	*	4	$	357	13
Monte Sereno		3,565	283	5	-	-	12	$	300	14
Saratoga	31,401		240	32	6	-	11	$	289	15

Even, if the voters approved a 2% UUT rate, which would raise the per capita tax rate by $44 annually, Morgan
Hill would still rank thirteen amongst the fifteen cities in the county.

FY 2006/07 Per Capita Tax Rate for Santa Clara County Cities (assuming 2% UUT in Morgan Hill)

										WmMmm
Palo Alto	62,615	343	354		108	150	-	$	956	i
Santa Clara	114,238	223	378		99	-	8	.$	708	2
Los Gatos	29,407	292	315		38	-	40	$	684	3
Mountain View	73,262	301	235		54	71	3	$	663	4
Sunnyvale	135,721	301	236		48	48	5	$	638	5
Los Altos	28,104	388	98		52	81	14	$	633	6
Milpitas	66,568	233	281		73	-	4	$	592	7
Campbell	39,748	190	253		37	-	5	$	485	8
Gilroy	49,649	66	293		18	93	12	$	483	9
Cupertino	55,162	115	204		46	94	13	$	472	10
San Jose	973,672	195	154		22	81	12	$	465	11
Los Altos Hills	8,607	396	9		-	-	25	$	430	12
MORGAN HILL	38,418	154	171		29	42	4	$	399	13
Monte Sereno	3,565	283	5		-	-	12	$	300	14
Saratoga	31,401	240	32		6	-	11	$	289	15

i

Page 4 of 8

1*1-

UUT Exemptions

If the enclosed draft UUT ordinance is approved by the voters, there are specific exemptions which provide that
the tax may not be imposed when it would violate the Constitution or laws of the United States or of the State of
California; and the tax may not be applied to any other government entity, such as the Morgan Hill Unified School
District.

In addition to the specific exemptions described above, the draft ordinance provides exemptions to the imposition
of the tax in order to ensure that the tax will not result in a disproportionate burden being placed on low-income
households. The draft ordinance includes an exemption from the imposition of the tax for low-income households
participating in PG&E’s California Alternative Energy (CARE) program, or any successor programs. The CARE
program provides a 20% discount on monthly bills for qualified low or fixed-income households. To qualify, a
household of one or two people can have a combined income no higher than $30,500 for the period of June 1,

2008 to May 31,2009. The income threshold increases with the number of people in the household to as high as
$58,000 for a household of six people. Participants in the CARE program must reapply for the program every two
years

Ballot Question Language

The State Elections Code requires the ballot measure to be printed in the ballot pamphlet in the form of a “yes or
no” ballot question of no more than 75 words. The ballot question must include a true and impartial statement of
the nature of the ballot measure.

The City conducted a phone survey of likely voters between April 8-10,2008 testing the following question:

‘To help preserve public safety in Morgan Hill by increasing funding for general City services including:

o Hiring additional police officers and firefighters;
o Establishing an additional fire station; and
o Improving 9-1-1 police/fire response times;

shall the City of Morgan Hill establish a fire-percent utility users tax, limited to 20 years subject independent
oversight, mandatory annual audit and all funds staying locally?

The main reason cited by survey respondents likely to vote “no” on the above ballot language was the cost of a 5%
UUT was too expensive. The City Council then provided an initial preferred tax measure at the April 23,2008
Council Meeting, which prioritized police service level enhancements that would cost approximately $1.5M
annually and necessitate only a two percent UUT. The City conducted a follow-up phone survey of likely voters-
between July 11-15,2008 testing the following question:

“To help maintain funding for general City services, such as:

o hiring additional police officers;
o increasing youth gang and drug prevention programs;
o improving 9-1-1 police response times;
o increasing specialized gang and drug enforcement police units;

Pa^fg

shall the City of Morgan Hill establish a two-percent utility users tax, with exemptions for low-income
residents, subject to mandatory annual audits, and all funds staying locally?”

When asked the question below, the survey results indicated 51% support for the measure and 39% against, which
is an improvement from the April survey results. The support grew even after reading the pro and con arguments
to 55% support for the measure and 39% against.

Based on the feedback obtained during the recent community opinion research surveys and prior Council
direction, staff has prepared the following draft ballot language for Council Consideration.

THE MORGAN HILL VITAL CITY SERVICES PROTECTION MEASURE

“To help protect local funding for general City services such as public safety, shall the City of Morgan Hill
establish a two percent general utility users’ tax, with low-income exemptions, subject to mandatory annual audits,
all funds staying local, and to be reviewed by the City Council every two years and terminated if findings are not
made that the tax is necessary for the City’s financial health?”__________________■

Ballot Arguments

The State Elections Code also allows the City Council to determine its interest in authoring an argument in favor
of the ballot measure for the UUT. The Elections Code provides for arguments to be filed with the City Clerk as
the Elections Official. Arguments of no more than 300 words each for and against any ballot measure will then be
included in the Voters Sample Ballot. The arguments must be submitted to the City Clerk by 5:00 p.m. on August
13, 2008, and rebuttals (of no more than 250 words) must be submitted by 5:00 p.m. on August 20, 2008. If there
is no argument put forward in opposition to the ballot measure, then there will be no rebuttal arguments.

The arguments can be authored by a maximum of five eligible voters. The code also requires that only one
argument for and one against each ballot measure will be accepted by the Elections Official and provides for an
orderly process in determining who is eligible to submit a statement. If more than one argument for or more than
one argument against the measure is received by the deadline, per the Elections Code, the City Clerk must select
only one argument against, giving preference and priority in the following order to:

1.	The legislative body, or member or members of the legislative body authorized by that body.

2.	The individual voter, or bona fide association of citizens, or combination of voters and associations, who
are the bona fide sponsors of proponents of the measure.

3.	Bona fide associations of citizens.

4.	Individual voters who are eligible to vote on the measure.

The City Council has several options regarding the preparation of ballot arguments. In the event Council decides
to place the measure on the ballot and to author the argument in favor, there is a draft argument included in your
materials for Council review. In order for the City Council to authorize an argument to be given preference as
identified above, the Council may either: (1) approve the argument included in your materials with or without
edits at the July 23, 2008 Council Meeting; (2) author an argument in favor of the measure as a whole body at the
August 6, 2008 Council Meeting (subject to Brown Act considerations outlined in the next paragraph); (3)
authorize up to two Councilmembers to author and sign the argument, and authorize the remaining
Councilmembers, to use their titles as members of the City Council to sign the argument; or (4) authorize up to
two Councilmembers to author and sign the argument, and have three other eligible voters who are proponents
sign. If the Council chooses options (3) or (4), the Council will have delegated full authority to the identified



Councilmembers to author the measure, and it would not be necessary to return to the whole Council at a regular
meeting to finalize the language of the argument. Alternatively, the City Council may choose to have other
members of the Morgan Hill community author the argument, in which case, the second priority position for
acceptance of the argument is sponsors or proponents of the measure.

If the City Council decides to author an argument as a whole body, this could be accomplished in several ways in
light of Brown Act. The Council could write the argument in an open session; or delegate up to two
Councilmembers to prepare the argument and present the draft to the whole Council for approval in an open
session.

Recognizing that there is potentially only one more Council Meeting scheduled prior to the due date for
submission to the County by no later than August 13, 2008, below is a draft argument for Council consideration.

DRAFT

Argument in Favor of Measure______

Nothing is more important to the community than public safety.

The City continues to grow in accordance with our managed growth program. There are new stores and
restaurants. There are more activities for kids and families. But the level of police staffing has not kept pace.

Measure_____will allow the City of Morgan Hill to fund the most critical needs. To protect our public safety we

need more police officers.

After a year of intense study and community input, it is clear that we need more officers on the street and we need
to expand anti-gang and anti-drug enforcement programs. Gang activity is rising everywhere including Morgan
Hill. Morgan Hill has the lowest ratio of police officers to population in the County even though the City already
spends 83% of every discretionary dollar on public safety services.

Public safety services are our top priority. We manage the budget to put your money to work efficiently. A
significant increase in police staffing is needed and we need additional revenue to pay for it.

Each of us brings different perspectives to the issues facing the community, but the Council unanimously supports
Measure

If you have $200 of monthly utility bills, you would pay $4 toward enhancing public safety, and that amount could
be reduced by small conservation efforts in the home.

Extraordinary financial accountability features are included in Measure_. In addition to annual audits, every

two years, the sitting City Council will conduct a public hearing to review the community’s needs and financial
condition. If the tax is to be continued, at least four of the five councilmembers must vote in favor.

Please join your neighbors and friends to support vital City services and vote YES on Measure

Roles & Limitations During Ballot Measure Campaign Period

In order to be successful in securing voter approval of a UUT, it will be necessary for various community leaders
to assist in putting together a community campaign to support passage of the ballot measure. The City cannot
expend any time, money or effort advocating a position supporting passage of the ballot measure. Council
members and staff can work on the campaign on their own time and at their own expense, provided it is made
clear that they are doing so on their own time and not with City resources.

ATTACHMENT 2

RESOLUTION NO.

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
MORGAN HILL, CALIFORNIA, SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS
AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ON TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 4, 2008, A BALLOT MEASURE REGARDING THE
ENACTMENT OF A UTILITY USERS TAX

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election has been called and is to be held in the
City of Morgan Hill, California on Tuesday November 4, 2008; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized to submit to the voters a ballot measure
regarding the enactment of a utility users tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MORGAN
HILL, CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The following ballot measure shall be submitted to the voters at the
General Municipal Election to be held on Tuesday, November 4,:

THE MORGAN HILL VITAL CITY SERVICES	v
PROTECTION MEASURE	X  I?
“To help protect local funding for general City services such as	
public safety, shall the City of Morgan Hill establish a two	
percent general utility users’ tax, with low-income exemptions,	
subject to mandatory annual audits, all funds staying local, and	7VT
to be reviewed by the City Council every two years and	N
terminated if findings are not made that the tax is necessary for	O
the City’s financial health?”	

SECTION 2. The text of the ballot measure is attached to this resolution as Exhibit
A. The text of the measure shall not be printed in ballot materials, but copies of the measure
shall be available from the City Clerk.

SECTION 3. The ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content
as required by law.

SECTION 4. The City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to contract for
the procurement and furnishing of any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and
all supplies, equipment and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to properly and
lawfully conduct the election.

SECTION 5. The polls for the election shall be open at seven o’clock a.m. of the
day of the election and shall remain open continuously from that time until eight o’clock
p.m. of the same day when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in §14401 of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

"1 87-

City of Morgan Hill

Resolution No.____

Page 2 of3

SECTION 6. Pursuant to the requirements of §10403 of the Elections Code of
the State of California, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara is hereby
requested to consent and agree to the consolidation of a General Municipal Election to be
held on Tuesday, November 4, 2008, for the purpose of submitting a ballot measure to
the voters of the City of Morgan Hill.

SECTION 7. The City of Morgan Hill requests the services of the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara and the Registrar of Voters to conduct said
General Election and to consolidate such election. The Registrar of Voters is requested
to provide all necessary election services and to canvass the returns of the General
Municipal Election.

SECTION 8. The City of Morgan Hill shall reimburse the County of Santa Clara
for services performed when the work is completed and upon presentation to the City of
Morgan Hill of a properly approved bill.

SECTION 9. The City Clerk is directed to forward without delay to the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara and to the County of Santa Clara Election
Department, each, a certified copy of this resolution.

SECTION 10. In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 11. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and
the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of
the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 12. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Morgan Hill at a
regular meeting held on the 23rd day of July, 2008 by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

NOES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

ABSTAIN:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

ABSENT:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

ATTEST:

APPROVED:

City of Morgan Hill

Resolution No.___

Page 3 of 3

IRMA TORREZ, CITY CLERK	STEVE	TATE,

MAYOR

0 CERTIFICATION □

I,	IRMA TORREZ, CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL,
CALIFORNIA, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of

Resolution No._, adopted by the City Council at a Regular Meeting held on July 23,

2008.

WITNESS MY HAND AND THE SEAL OF THE CITY OF MORGAN

HILL.

DATE:______________	__________-

IRMA TORREZ, City Clerk

-I 89-

Draft UUT Ordinance 07-17-08)

ORDINANCE NO. 08-

/

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL ADDING
CHAPTER 3.26 TO TITLE 3 OF THE MORGAN HILL MUNICIPAL
CODE WITH RESPECT TO A UTILITY USERS ’ TAX.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: Chapter 3.26 of the Municipal Code is hereby added, and it shall read as
follows:

CHAPTER 3.26
UTILITY USERS’ TAX

3.26.010	Short Title.

3.26.020	Definitions.

3.26.030	Constitutional. Statutory, and Other Exemptions.

3.26.040	Refuse Hauling Tax.

3.26.050	Telecommunication Tax

3.26.060	Video Tax

3.26.070	Electricity Tax

3.26.080	Gas Tax

3.26.090	Collection of tax from service users receiving direct purchase of gas or
electricity.

3.26.100	Water Tax

3.26.110	Sewer Tax

3.26.120	Bundling Taxable Items with Non-taxable Items

3.26.130	Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

3.26.140	Duty to collect—Procedures.

3.26.150	Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers.

3.26.160	Actions to Collect.

3.26.170	Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

3.26.180	Administrative Remedy - Non-Paving Service Users.

3.26.190	Additional powers and duties of the Tax Administrator.

3.26.200	Records.

3.26.210	Refunds.

3.26.220	Appeals.

3.26.230	Notice No Iniunction/Writ of Mandate.

3.26.240	Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

3.26.250	Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization.

3.26.260	Independent Audit of Tax Collection. Exemption. Remittance, and Expenditure.

3.26.270	Remedies Cumulative.

3.26.280	Required Fundings Every Two Years - Termination of Utility Users Tax.

-190-

1

3.26.010	Short Title

This chapter shall be known as the "Utility Users’ Tax Ordinance" of the City.

3,26.020	Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter shall be construed as
defined in this section,

(a)	“Ancillary telecommunication services” means services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services, including but
not limited to the following services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that links two or
more participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the
provision of a telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include the
telecommunications services used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunications billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing
statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone
number information, and/or address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection with
one or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling features
that allow customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call
connections, including conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer to
store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any
vertical services that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize the
voice mail service.

(b)	“Ancillary video services” means services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to electronic program
guide services, search functions, recording services, or other interactive services or
communications that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of
video services.

(c)	“Billing Address” shall mean the mailing address of the service user where the service
supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

(d)	“City” shall mean the City of Morgan Hill.

191-

2

(e)	"Gas" shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel which
may be substituted therefor.

(f)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the meaning and usage as set forth in the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations
thereunder.

(g)	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

(h)	“Non-Utility Service Supplier” means:

(1)	a service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all
or a significant portion of the City, which generates electricity for sale to others,
and shall include but is not limited to any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-
owned utility, cogenerator, distributed generation provider, exempt wholesale
generator ( 15U.S.C. Section 79z-5a), municipal utility district, federal power
marketing agency, electric rural cooperative, or other supplier or seller of
electricity;

(2)	an electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator,
pool operator, or other electricity supplier other than a supplier of electric
distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or
supplies electricity or supplemental services to electricity users within the City; or

(3)	a gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than a supplier of
gas distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or
supplies gas or supplemental services to gas users within the City.

(i)	“Paging service” means a “telecommunications service” that provides transmission of
coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers; such transmissions may
include messages and/or sounds.

(j)	"Person" shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust, common law
trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock company, joint
venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic, and non-
profit), municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the City), cooperative,
receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.

(k)	“Place of Primary Use” means the street address representative of where the customer's
use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which must be the residential street
address or the primary business street address of the customer.

(l)	"Post-paid telecommunication service" means the telecommunication service obtained
by making a payment on a telecommunication-by-telecommunication basis either through
the use of a credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card.

“1 92™

3

or debit card, or by charge made to a service number which is not associated with the
origination or termination of the telecommunication service.

(m)	"Prepaid telecommunication service" means the right to access telecommunication
services, which must be paid for in advance and which enables the origination of
telecommunications using an access number or authorization code, whether manually or
electronically dialed, and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the number
declines with use in a known amount.

(n)	"Private telecommunication service" means a telecommunication service that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a telecommunications channel or group of
channels between or among termination points, regardless of the manner in which such
channel or channels are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines,
stations, and any other associated services that are provided in connection with the use of
such channel or channels. A telecommunications channel is a physical or virtual path of
telecommunications over which signals are transmitted between or among customer
channel termination points (i.e., the location where the customer either inputs or receives
the telecommunications).

(o)	"Service Address" shall mean the residential street address or the business street
address of the service user. For a telecommunication or video service user, "service
address" means either:

(1)	The location of the service user’s telecommunication or video
equipment from which the communication originates or terminates, regardless of where
the communication is billed or paid; or,

(2)	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (
mobile telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address shall mean- the
location of the service user's place of primary use.

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” shall mean
the location associated with the service number.

(p)	"Service Supplier" shall mean any entity or person, including the City, that provides
refrise hauling, electricity, gas, water, sewer, telecommunication or video service to a user
of such service within the City.

(q)	"Service User" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under the provisions
of this Article.

(r)	“State" shall mean the State of California.

(s)	“Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement shall mean the multi-state agreement
commonly known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, and
as it is amended from time to time.

-193-

4

(t)	"Tax Administrator" means the Finance Director of the city or his or her designee, or
such person that assumes the tax administration responsibilities of Finance Director, if that
position is replaced in the future.

(u)	“Telecommunications services” means the transmission, conveyance, or routing of
voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or
among points, whatever the technology used. The term “telecommunications services”
includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of
transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such services are referred to
as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal
Telecommunications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or
data services that is functionally integrated with “telecommunication services”.
“Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to the following services,
regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed: ancillary
telecommunication services; mobile telecommunications service; prepaid
telecommunication service; post-paid telecommunication service; private
telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers
designated by the Federal Telecommunications Commission); 900 service (or any other
similar numbers designated by the Federal Telecommunications Commission for services
whereby subscribers who call in to pre-recorded or live service).

(v)	“Video Programming” means those programming services commonly provided to
subscribers by a “video service supplier” including but not limited to basic services,
premium services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on demand,
origination programming, or any other similar services, regardless of the content of such
video programming, or the technology used to deliver such services, and regardless of the
manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed.

(w)	“Video Services” means “video programming” and any and all services related to the
providing, recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of “video programming” (including
origination programming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g,, IP-TV and IP-
Video) using one or more channels by a “video service supplier”, regardless of the
technology used to deliver, store or provide such services, and regardless of the manner or
basis on which such services are calculated or billed, and includes ancillary video services,
data services, “telecommunication services”, or interactive communication services that
are functionally integrated with “video services”.

(x)	“Video Service Supplier” means any person, company, or service which provides or
sells one or more channels of video programming, or provides or sells the capability to
receive one or more channels of video programming, including any telecommunications
that are ancillary, necessary or common to the provision, use or enjoyment of the video
programming, to or from a business or residential address in the City, where some fee is
paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that service, whether or not
public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or
telecommunications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited to,

-I 94-

5

multichannel video programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 522(13)];
open video systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television; master antenna
television; satellite master antenna television; multichannel multipoint distribution services
(MMDS); video services using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video, which provide,
among other things, broadcasting and video on demand), direct broadcast satellite to the
extent federal law permits taxation of its video services, now or in the future; and other
suppliers of video services (including two-way communications), whatever their
technology.

(y)	VoIP (voice over internet protocol) means the digital process of making and
receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

(z)	“800 service” means a “telecommunications service” that allows a caller to dial a
toll-free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically marketed
under the name “800”, “855”, “866”, “877”, and “888” toll-free calling, and any'
subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

(aa)	“900 service” means an inbound toll “telecommunications service” purchased by a
subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s prerecorded
announcement or' live service. “900 service” does not include the charge for; collection
services provided by the seller of the “telecommunications services” to the subscriber, or
service or product sold by the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is
typically marketed under the name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

3.26.030	Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions.

(a)	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person or
service when the imposition of such tax upon such person or service would be in
violation of a federal or state statute, the Constitution of the United'States or the
Constitution of the State.

(b)	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Chapter pursuant to
subsection (a) of this section shall file an application with the Tax Administrator for an
exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a
state or federal agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized name for such
service. Said application shall be made upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator
and shall state those facts, declared under penalty of peijury, which qualify the applicant
for an exemption, and shall include the names of all utility service suppliers serving that
service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service user shall give the
Tax Administrator timely written notice of any change in utility service suppliers so that
the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new utility service supplier of the service
user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this section shall not be
entitled to a refund of utility users’ taxes collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator
from such service user as a result of such noncompliance.

-195-

6

The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 3.26.220 of
this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the Chief
Executive Officer pursuant to Section 3.26.220 of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a suit
thereon.

3.26.040	Refuse hauling user tax.

(a)	. There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city receiving refuse hauling
services from the city or any refuse hauler franchised by the city. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for such refuse
hauling service.

(b)	. As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services,, components
and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of refuse
hauling service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or
bundled rate for refuse hauling service to retail customers. The term “charges” shall
include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, annual and monthly charges, and other charges, fees and
surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment of refuse hauling service; and,

(2)	charges, fees, or surcharges for sewer services or programs, which are
mandated by the City, a state or federal agency, whether or not such
charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on the
customer billing.

(c)	The tax on refuse hauling service imposed by this section shall be collected from the
service user by the refuse hauling service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month.

3.26.050	Telecommunication Users’ Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using telecommunication
services, including intrastate, interstate, and international telecommunication services. The
tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for
such services and shall be collected from the service user by the telecommunication
services supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that
telecommunication services, which are billed to a billing or service address in the City, are
used, in whole or in part, within the City's boundaries, and such services are subject to
taxation under this Chapter. If the billing address of the service user is different from the
service address, the service address of the service" user shall be used for purposes of
imposing the tax. As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall include the value of

-1 96-

7

any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for the telecommunication services.

(b)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” shall be sourced in accordance with the
sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section
124). The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter, sourcing
rules for the taxation of other telecommunication services, including but not limited to
post-paid telecommunication services, and prepaid telecommunication services, provided
that such rules are based upon custom and common practice that further administrative
efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation (e.g., Streamline Sales and Use Tax
Agreement).

(c)	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter, an
administrative ruling identifying those telecommunication services, or charges therefor,
that are subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(d)	As used in this section, the term “telecommunication services” shall include, but are
not limited to charges for: connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change of
telecommunication services; late payment fees; detailed billing; central office and custom
calling features(including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller
identification and three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging services; directory
assistance; access and line charges; universal service charges; regulatory, administrative
and other cost recovery charges; and local number portability charges.
“Telecommunication services” shall not include digital downloads that are not “ancillary
telecommunications services”, such as books, music, ringtones, games, and similar digital
products.

(e)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telecommunication services subject to
tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the
service user has previously paid the same tax in another state or local jurisdiction on such
telecommunication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent
of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state or local jurisdiction; provided,
however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this section.

(f)	The tax on telecommunication services imposed by this section shall be collected from
the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall
be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

3.26.060	Video Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using video services. The
tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for
such services and shall be collected from the service user by the video service supplier or
its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that video services, which are billed to
a billing or service address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City's
boundaries, and such services are subject to taxation under this Chapter. If the billing

-197-

8

address of the service user is different from the service address, the service address of the
service user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, charges
for the following:

(1)	regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees and access fees (PEG);

(2)	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of
telecommunication services;

(3)	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

(4)	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

(5)	video programming and video services;

(6)	ancillary video programming services (e.g., electronic program guide services,
search functions, recording functions, or other interactive services or
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of
the video services);

(7)	equipment leases (e.g., remote, recording and/or search devises; converters);
and,

(8)	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services, and
special services.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the video services.

(c)	. The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to video service suppliers, which
are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter, an administrative ruling
identifying those video services, or charges therefor, that are subject to or not subject to
the tax of subsection (a) above.

(d)	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the video
service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services. In the case of video
service, the service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video service
(e.g., an apartment owner), unless such service is resold to individual users, in which case
the service user shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video service. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month.

-198-

9

3.26.070	Electricity Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electricity in the City. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for
such electricity, and for any supplemental services or other associated activities directly
related to and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the service user, which are
provided by a service supplier or non-utility service supplier to a service user. The tax
shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service
supplier, or its billing agent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall not apply to
any individual who qualifies, and has been accepted, for the California Alternate Rates
for Energy (CARE) Program pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Sections 327
and 739.1 et. seq., and as it may be amended from time to time. In the event that the
CARE Program is repealed or otherwise ceases to exist in a substantially similar form,
the exemption granted under this subsection shall automatically terminate.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and
items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric
service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate
for electric service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The
term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	energy charges;

(2)	distribution or transmission charges;

(3)	metering charges;

(4)	stand-by, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation, emergency,
or other similar charges for supplemental services to self-generation service users;

(5)	customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange charges,
independent system operator (ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive
transition charges (CTC), public purpose program charges, nuclear
decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts (bond financing charges),
franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and other
charges, fees or surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use
or enjoyment of electric service; and,

(6)	charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs which are
mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear
on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other.consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision of such
electricity.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric service suppliers
to identify the various unbundled billing components of electric retail service that they

-199-

10

commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the of the City,
and the charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by state or federal
regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such electric service. The Tax
Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such electric service suppliers an
administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary for
or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service; or, ii) currently are or
historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components and
items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(e)	As used in this section, the term “using electricity” shall not include the mere
receiving of such electricity by an electrical corporation or governmental agency at a
point within the City for resale.

(f)	The tax on electricity provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier
not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected and remitted in the manner set
forth in Section 3.26.090 of this Chapter. All other taxes on charges for electricity
imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the electric service
supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the twentieth (20,h) day of the following month; or, at the option of the person
required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of
tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the
service user, which must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of the following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted
payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each
calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied
against any subsequent remittance that becomes due.

3.26.080	Gas Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the City, which is
transported and delivered through a pipeline or by mobile transport. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for such gas,
including all services related to the storage, transportation and delivery of such gas. The
tax shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service
supplier, or its billing agent, and shall apply to all uses of gas, including but not limited
to, heating, electricity generation, and the use of gas as a component of a manufactured
product. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall not apply to any individual who
qualifies, and has been accepted, for the California Alternate Rates for Energy (CARE)
Program pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Sections 327 and 739.1 et. and
as it may be amended from time to time. In the event that the CARE Program is repealed
or otherwise ceases to exist in a substantially similar form, the exemption granted under
this subsection shall automatically terminate.

"200“

11

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and

items for gas service that are:	i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or

enjoyment of gas service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a
single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a class of retail
customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	the commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned by the
service user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting,
storage, gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with
the production and delivery of such gas), which is delivered through a gas
pipeline distribution system;

(2)	gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not
included in commodity charges);

(3)	storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier shall not be
required to apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the service
supplier cannot, as a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where such stored
gas is ultimately used; but it shall be the obligation of the service user to self-
collect the amount of tax not applied to any charge for gas storage by the service
supplier and to remit the tax to the appropriate jurisdiction;

(4)	capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, transition charges, customer charges, minimum charges,
annual and monthly charges, and any other charges which are necessary for or
common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; and,

(5)	charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs which are mandated
by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a
bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

(c)	As used in this- section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the gas or services related to the delivery of such gas.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas service suppliers to
identify the various unbundled billing components of gas retail service that they
commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the
charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory
agencies as a condition of providing such gas service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter,
may issue and disseminate to such gas service suppliers an administrative ruling
identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary for or common to the
receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been
included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the
tax of subsection (a) above.

-201-

12

(e)	There shall be excluded from the calculation of the tax imposed in this section,
charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution
system.

(f)	The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier not
under the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected and remitted in the manner set
forth in Section 3.26.090 of this Chapter. All other taxes on charges for gas imposed by
this section shall be collected from the service user by the gas service supplier or its
billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator, on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of the person required to collect
and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the
tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user, which
must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the
following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted payment or request
for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The
credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent
remittance that becomes due.

3.26.090	Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas or
Electricity.

(a)	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by Section 3.26.070 or by Section

3.26.080	of this Chapter, which produces gas or electricity for self-use; winch receives
gas or electricity, including any related supplemental services, directly from a non-utility
service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter; or which, for any other reason,
is not having the full tax collected and remitted by its service supplier, a non-utility
service supplier, or its billing agent on the use of gas or electricity in the City, including
any related supplemental services, shall report said fact to the Tax Administrator and
shall remit the tax due directly to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such
use, based on the charges for, or value of, such gas or electricity, or supplemental
services, as provided in subsection (b). In lieu of paying said actual tax, the service user
may, at its option, remit to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use an
estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the
payment pattern of similar customers of the service supplier using similar amounts of gas
or electricity, provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request
for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The
credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator in writing, may be applied against any
subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may require said service user to identify its non-utility service
supplier, and otherwise provide, subject to audit; invoices; books of account; or other
satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used, including any
related supplemental services, and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is unable
to provide such satisfactory evidence, or if the administrative cost of calculating the tax
in the opinion of the Tax Administrator is excessive, the Tax Administrator may

-202-

13

determine the tax by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user
would have incurred if the gas or electricity used, including any related supplemental
services, had been provided by the service supplier that is the primary supplier of gas or
electricity within the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from the
City.

3.26.100	Water Tax.

(b)	There is imposed a tax upon every person using water in the City which is
transported and delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges
made for such water.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all seivices,
components and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use
or enjoyment of water service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been
included in a single or bundled rate for water service by a local distribution
company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but
is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	water commodity charges (potable and non-potable);

(2)	distribution or transmission	charges;

(3)	metering charges;

(4)	customer charges, late	charges,	service establishment or-

reestablishment charges, franchise fees, franchise surcharges,
annual and monthly charges, and other charges, fees and
surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use
or enjoyment of water service; and,

(5)	charges, fees, or surcharges for water services or programs, which
are mandated by a water district or a state or federal agency,
whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a
bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

(d)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for the water services.

(e)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the water service
suppliers in the City to identify the various unbundled billing components of
water retail service that they commonly provide to residential and
commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the charges therefor,
including those items that are mandated by a water district or a state or federal
agency as a condition of providing such water service. The Tax

-203-

14

Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such water service
suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items
which are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of
water service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a
single or bundled rate for water service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be
subject to the tax of subsection A above.

(f)	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this
section is computed charges made for water which is to be resold and
delivered through a pipeline distribution system; and charges made by a
municipal water department, public utility or a city or municipal water district
for water used and consumed by such department, public utility or water
district in the conduct of the business of such department, utility or district.

The tax on water service imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user
by the water service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1)
month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

3.26.110	Sewer Tax

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using sewer services
within the city. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of
the charges made for such sewer service. The tax shall be paid by the person using such
sewer service.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components
and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of sewer
service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate
for sewer service to retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited
to, the following charges:

(1)	customer charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, annual and monthly charges, and other
charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary for or common to
the receipt, use or enjoyment of sewer service; and,

(2)	charges, fees, or surcharges for sewer services or programs, which
are mandated by the City, a state or federal agency, whether or not
such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item
basis on the customer billing.

(c)	The tax on sewer service imposed by this section shall be collected from the service
user by the sewer service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one
(1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth (20,h) day of the following month.

-204-

15

3.26.120	Bundling Taxable Items with Non-Taxable Items.

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable
service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge
is subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable
standards, the portions of the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through
the service supplier's books and records kept in the regular course of business, and in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and
maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges. If the service supplier offers a
combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges are separately stated,
then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall
be based on its books and records kept in the regular course of business and in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and
maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
valuation of the taxable and non-taxable services.

3.26.130	Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this
Chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor
of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent
permitted by state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial
interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any telecommunication service (including
VoIP) used by a person with a service address in the City, which service is capable of
terminating a call to another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to
a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes
of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this Chapter. A
service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the City for tax collection
and remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any of the
following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent, affiliate, or
subsidiary, a place of business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees,
independent contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the
City on a continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is
broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the City or distributed from a location
within the City; or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published
within the City or through materials distributed in the City by means other than the
United States mail; or if there are activities performed in the City on behalf of the service
supplier that are significantly associated with the service supplier’s ability to establish
and maintain a market in the City for the provision of services that are subject to a tax
under this Chapter

3.26.140	Duty to Collect—Procedures.

-205-

16

(a)	Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit
the taxes imposed by the provisions of this Chapter shall be performed as follows:

(1)	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at the
same time as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance
with the regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by
a service user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge and
tax which was accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of both the
charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid. In those cases where a
service user has notified the service supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed on
said charges, Section 3.26.180 shall apply.

(2)	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the
service user where all charges normally included in such regular billing are
subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where a service user receives more than
one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to
collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

(b)	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this Chapter to remit a tax
shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax Administrator,
on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included with the
return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to
require such additional information as he or she deems necessary to determine if the tax
is being levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter. Returns are due
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax
Code Section 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing
returns as confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the
Public Records Act.

3.26.150	Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers.

(a)	Taxes collected by service supplier from a service user are delinquent if not received
by the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a
weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator on the
first regular working day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit,
including electronic fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically
exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by a service supplier in satisfaction
of its obligations under this subsection shall be considered timely if the transfer is
initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer settles into the City’s account on the
following business day.

(b)	If the person required to collect and/or remit the utility users’ tax fails to collect the
tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or charges on the
customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before the due date, the Tax
Administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of
fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and

-206-

17

shall pay interest at the rate of and 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon
persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter for
fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of
the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the
Tax Administrator.

(d)	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is accrued
under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be
paid.

(e)	. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her discretion,
modify the due dates of this Chapter to be consistent with any uniform standards or
procedures that are mutually agreed upon by other public agencies imposing a utility
users tax, or otherwise legally established, to create a central payment location or
mechanism.

3.26.160	Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a service
user which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed
to the City by the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the
service user. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter
shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such
amount, including penalties and interest as provided for in this Chapter, along with any
collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the person’s noncompliance with this
Chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees. Any tax required to be
collected by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an unsecured priority excise
tax obligation under 11 U.S.CA. Section 507(a)(8)(C).

3,26.170	Deficiency Determination and Assessment — Tax Application Errors.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she determines
that any service supplier or service user required to pay, collect, and/or remit taxes
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter has failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the
proper amount of tax by improperly or failing to apply the tax to one or more taxable
services or charges. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this Section 3.26.170 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the
cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the
person or entity allegedly owing the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the amount of

“207-

18

the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any
fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have
been received by the City. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of service of
such notice, the person or entity allegedly owing the tax may request in writing to the Tax
Administrator for a hearing on the matter.

(c)	If the person or entity allegedly owing the tax fails to request a hearing within the
prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final
assessment, and shall immediately be due and owing to the City. If the person requests a
hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be
scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice
of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator to such
person or entity at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax
Administrator desires said person or entity to produce specific records at such hearing,
such notice may designate the records requested to be produced.

(d)	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant
testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the discretion of
the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of
allowing the presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the
conclusion of the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-
assessment), thereafter, by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency
determination, and shall mail a copy of such final assessment to person or entity owing
the tax; The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section

3.26.220	of this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to
the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 3.26.220 of this Chapter is a prerequisite
to a suit thereon.

(e)	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of receipt of the
notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on
the total amount of the assessment, along with interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%)
percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations
regarding a claim by the City seeking payment of a tax assessed under this Chapter shall
commence from the date of delinquency as provided in this subsection (e).

(f)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall
be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as
established by a proof of mailing,

3.26.180	Administrative Remedy - Non-Paying Service Users.

-208-

19

(a)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately
withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a
person required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best
interest of the City, he or she may relieve such person of the obligation to collect the
taxes due under this Chapter from certain named service users for specific billing periods.
To the extent the service user has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of
two (2) or more billing periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to
collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide the City with the names and
addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of
this Chapter. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this Section 3.26.180 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the
cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(b)	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty at the rate
of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay interest at the rate of
75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated
periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice
shall be served on the service user by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the service user at the address to which
billing was made by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user
have a change of address, to his or her last known address.

(d)	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30)
days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Administrator
may impose an additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the total tax
that is owed.

3.26.190	Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this Chapter.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent with
provisions of this Chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and
enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of
such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's
office. To the extent that the Tax Administrator determines that the tax imposed under
this chapter shall not be collected in full for any period of time from any particular
service supplier or service user, that determination shall be considered an exercise of the
Tax Administrator’s discretion to settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in
taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The
Tax Administrator is not authorized to amend the City's methodology for purposes of
Government Code Section 53750 and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability to

-209”

20

impose the utility users’ tax in full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or
entering into agreements.

(c)	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict
requirements of this Chapter and thereby: (1) conform to the billing procedures of a
particular service supplier so long as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in
conformance with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter; or, (2) to avoid a
hardship where the administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the
tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's
office, and are voidable by the Tax Administrator or the City at any time.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter, of any person required to collect and/or remit a tax pursuant
to this Chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said person of the initiation of an
audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period
of review shall not exceed a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of
the written notice by said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the
audit, the Tax Administrator may make a deficiency determination pursuant to Section

3.26.170	of this Chapter for all taxes (and applicable penalties and interest) owed and not
paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If
said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax
Administrator to verify compliance with this Chapter, the Tax Administrator is
authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate
shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

(e)	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax
Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to this
Chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the time for filing
the required statement has not already passed when the request is received. No penalty
for delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue
during said extension at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, prorated for any
portion thereof.

(f)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a right
to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Chapter.

(g)	Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapter to the contrary, the Tax Administrator
may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required to collect and/or remit
for failure to collect the tax imposed by this Chapter if the non-collection occurred in
good, faith. In determining whether the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax
Administrator shall take into consideration industry practice or other precedence.

Sec.3.26,200 Records.

-210-

21

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax
imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have
been liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records
the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

(b)	The City, through the City Council, may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a
person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the
Tax Administrator to establish compliance with this Chapter, including the delivery of
records in a common electronic format on readily available media if such records are kept
electronically by the person in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an
alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the
due date provided in the administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to
such records outside the City on or before the due date, provided that such person shall
reimburse the City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect
those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding
the normal salary or hourly wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct the
inspection.

(c)	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement approved
by the City Counsel to protect the confidentiality of customer information pursuant to
California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284,6 and 7284.7.

(d)	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or
remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator the name,
address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently
authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii)
upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information
or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion
of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

(e)	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably denies the
Tax Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the information requested in
an administrative subpoena within the time specified, then the Tax Administrator may
impose a penalty of $500 on such person for each day following: i) the initial date that
the person refuses to provide such access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as
set forth in the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
penalty imposed under this Chapter.

3.26.210	Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter
from a service user or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this section:

-211-

22

(a)	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid or paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator
under this Chapter from a service user or service supplier, provided that no refund shall
be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian,
conservator, executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax
Administrator within one year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of
said tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by written
records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on
behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each member of the class has submitted a
written claim under penalty of perjury as provided by this subsection.

(b)	The Tax Administrator, where the claim is less than the settlement authority

established in 2.08.040(8) of the Municipal Code, or the City Council where the claim is
in excess of that amount, shall act upon the refund claim within forty-five (45) days of
the initial receipt of the refund claim. Said decision shall be final. If the Tax
Administrator/City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the forty-five
(45) day period, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the Tax
Administrator/City Council on the forty-fifth (45th) day. The Tax Administrator shall
give notice of the action in a form which substantially complies with that set forth in
Government Code Section	913.

(c)	The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government Code Section 935 is a
prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to this
section shall be subject to the provisions of Government Code Sections 945.6 and 946.

(d)	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, the Tax
Administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to a service supplier,
who has collected and remitted any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed
by this Chapter, to claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is
due the City upon a subsequent monthly retuni(s) to the Tax Administrator, provided
that: i) such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from the date of
overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax; ii) the Tax Administrator is satisfied that
the underlying basis and amount of such credit has been reasonably established; and, iii)
in the case of an overpayment by a service user to the service supplier that has been
remitted to the City, the Tax Administrator has received proof, to his or her satisfaction,
that the overpayment has been refunded by the service supplier to the service user in an
amount equal to the requested credit.

(e)	. Notwithstanding subsections (a) though (d) above, a service supplier shall be entitled
to take any overpayment as a credit against an underpayment whenever such
overpayment has been received by the City within the three (3) years next preceding a
deficiency determination or assessment by the Tax Administrator in connection with an
audit instituted by the Tax Administrator pursuant to Section 3.26.190(d). A service
supplier shall not be entitled to said credit unless it first clearly establishes, to the
satisfaction of the Tax Administrator, the right to the credit by written records showing
entitlement thereto. Under no circumstances shall an overpayment taken as a credit
against an underpayment pursuant to this subsection qualify a service supplier for a

-212-

23

refund to which it would not otherwise be entitled under the one-year written claim
requirement of this section.

3.26.220	Appeals.

(a)	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating to a
refund pursuant to Section 3.26.210 of this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment,
or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any person aggrieved by any decision
(other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.26.210 of this Chapter),
deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator,
shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with
this section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government Code Section
935(b)]. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action on behalf of a class or
group of taxpayers.

(b)	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund
pursuant to Section 3.26,210 of this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may appeal to the City Manager
by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the
decision, deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator which aggrieved the service user or service supplier.

(c)	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before the City Manager, or his or her
designee, no more than thirty (30) days from the receipt of the appeal. The appellant shall
be served with notice of the time and place of the hearing, as well as any relevant materials,
at least five (5) calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from
time to time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the Tax
Administrator, and any other interested person may present such relevant evidence as he or
she may have relating to the determination from which the appeal is taken.

(d)	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City's files, the
hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or reversing the
determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within fourteen
(14) days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision.
The notice shall specify that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review
shall be filed within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.

(e)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall be
deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by
a proof of mailing.

3.26.230	No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer of the City

-213-

24

to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected and/or remitted.

3.26.240	Notice of changes to ordinance.

If a tax under this Chapter is added repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is
changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of California
Public Utilities Code Section	799.

3.26.250	Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that
such reference to a statute herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or
to any subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of
law with the duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of
interpretation would require voter approval under California law, or to the extent that
such change would result in a tax decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of a
utility service, or charge therefor, from taxation). Only to the extent voter approval
would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would result, the prior version of the
statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any application or situation that
would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the
amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum possible
extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this
Chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no
amendment or modification of this Chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those
changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization
up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this Chapter.

3.26.260	Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption, Remittance, and
Expenditure.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Chapter have been properly
applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter, and properly
expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual verification shall be
performed by a qualified independent third party and the review shall employ reasonable,
cost-effective steps to assure compliance, including the use of sampling audits. The
verification shall not be required of tax remitters where the cost of the verification may
exceed the tax revenues to be reviewed.

3.26.270	Remedies Cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Chapter or which are available under any
other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims

-214-

25

Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act
(Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et seq), are cumulative. The use of one
or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of this Chapter.

3.26.280	Required Findings Every Two Years — Termination of Utility Users Tax.

(a)	The City Council shall review the need for the utility users tax imposed by this
Chapter not later than June 30, 2011, and every two years thereafter, and shall, by a two
thirds (2/3) vote of the Council, make findings that the utility users tax imposed by this
Chapter is necessary for the financial health of the City. In the event the City Council
fails to make such required findings by any such review date, the levy of taxes as
provided in this Chapter shall terminate on December 3111 of the year in which the City
Council fails to make the required findings.

(b)	The termination of the levy of taxes as provided herein shall not terminate the
obligation to pay taxes levied on services used prior to such date. Taxes levied prior to
such date shall remain a debt payable to the City. All provisions in this Chapter, except
those relating to the levy of taxes, shall continue with full force and effect after such date.

(c)	Nothing herein is intended to constitute an extension or an increase in a tax requiring
voter approval under California Constitution Article XIIIC; and to the extent that this
Section 3.26.280 is found to invoke such a requirement, this Section 3.26.280 shall be
deemed null and void ab initio.

SECTION 2. Effective Date. This chapter shall become effective immediately
upon the date that this Ordinance is confirmed and approved by the voters of the City of
Morgan Hill at the Election of November 4,2008.

SECTION 3. Amendment or Repeal. Chapter 3.26 of the Municipal Code may
be repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of the people. However, as
required by Chapter XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any
amendment provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this
Ordinance. The People of the City of Morgan Hill affirm that the following actions shall
not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

1.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this
Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

2.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to
some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of
this Ordinance.

3.	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or excepted from the tax or
the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the

-215-

26

discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
Ordinance); and

4.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the City had, for
some period of time, failed to collect the tax.

SECTION 4. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall
nonetheless remain in lull force and effect. The people hereby declares that they would
have adopted each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 5. Execution. The Mayor of the City Council is hereby authorized to
attest to the adoption of this Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing where
indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED
and ADOPTED by the people of the City of Morgan Hill voting on the 4th day of
November, 2008.

Mayor

ATTEST:

City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney

-216-

27

ATTACHMENT 3

RESOLUTION NO.

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
MORGAN HILL, CALIFORNIA, PROVIDING FOR WRITTEN
ARGUMENTS REGARDING A CITY MEASURE AND
DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS.

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election has been called and is to be held in the
City of Morgan Hill, California, on November 4, 2008, at which there will be submitted to
the voters the following measure:

THE MORGAN HILL VITAL CITY SERVICES
PROTECTION MEASURE

“To help protect local funding for general City services
such as public safety, shall the City of Morgan Hill establish
a two percent general utility users’ tax, with low-income
exemptions, subject to mandatory annual audits, all funds
staying local, and to be reviewed by the City Council every
two years and terminated if findings are not made that the
tax is necessary for the City’s financial health?”

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MORGAN
HILL, CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The City Council authorizes:

Name, Title

members of this body to file a written argument not exceeding 300 words in favor the
measure as specified above, accompanied by the printed name(s) and signature(s) of the
author(s) submitting it, in accordance with Article 4, Chapter 3, Division 9 of the Elections
Code of the State of California and to change the argument until and including the date fixed
by this Resolution after which no arguments for or against the City measure may be
submitted to the City Clerk.

SECTION 2. The primary arguments for and against this ballot measure shall be
submitted to the City Clerk by 5:00 p.m. on August 13, 2008, which is the deadline
established by the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters for primary arguments.

SECTION 3. Pursuant to separate resolution, the City Council has provided for the
filing of rebuttal arguments with respect to the above described measure at the November 4,
2008, General Municipal Election. Rebuttal arguments shall be submitted to the City Clerk
by 5:00 p.m. on August 20, 2008, which is the deadline established by the Santa Clara
County Registrar of Voters for rebuttal arguments.

—217—

City of Morgan Hill

Resolution No.____

Page - 2 -

SECTION 4. All arguments shall be filed with the City Clerk, signed, with the
printed name(s) and signature(s) of the author(s) submitting it, or if submitted on behalf of an
organization, the name of the organization, and the printed name and signature of at least one
of its principal officers who is the author of the argument. The arguments shall be
accompanied by the Form of Statement To Be Filed By Author(s) of Argument to be
provided by the City Clerk.

SECTION 5. The City Council directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of the
measure to the city attorney to prepare an impartial analysis of the measure, not exceeding
500 words, showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and the operation of the
measure. The impartial analysis shall be filed by August 20, 2008, which is the deadline
established by the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters for filing impartial analyses.

SECTION 6. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Morgan Hill at a
Regular Meeting held on the_day of July, 2008 by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:

NOES:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:

ABSTAIN:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:

ABSENT:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:

ATTEST:

APPROVED:

IRMA TORREZ, CITY CLERK	STEVE	TATE,	MAYOR

-218-

City of Morgan Hill

Resolution No.___

Page - 3 -

U CERTIFICATION u

I,	IRMA TORREZ, CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL,
CALIFORNIA, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution
No.	,	adopted	by	the	City	Council	at	a	Regular	Meeting held on July_, 2008.

WITNESS MY HAND AND THE SEAL OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL.

DATE:	_______________ _________________________________________________

IRMA TORREZ, City Clerk

"219-

This Page Left Blank Intentionally

=220-

resolution no.____	.	Attachment

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF MORGAN HILL, CALIFORNIA, PROVIDING FOR
THE FILING OF REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS FOR A CITY
MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS AT THE
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 4, 2008, GENERAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION

WHEREAS, Section 9285 of the Elections Code of the State of California authorizes
the City Council, by majority vote, to adopt provisions to provide for the filing of rebuttal
arguments for city measures submitted at municipal elections;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MORGAN
HILL, CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Pursuant to Section 9285 of the Elections Code of the State of
California, when the elections official has selected the arguments for and against the measure
which will be printed and distributed to the voters, the elections official shall send a copy of
an argument in favor of the proposition to the authors of any argument against the measure
and a copy of an argument against the measure to the authors of any argument in favor of the
measure immediately upon receiving the arguments.

The author or a majority of the authors of an argument relating to a city measure may
prepare and submit a rebuttal argument not exceeding 250 words or may authorize in writing
any other person or persons to prepare, submit, or sign the rebuttal argument.

A rebuttal argument may not be signed by more than five authors.

The rebuttal arguments shall be filed with the City Clerk, signed, with the printed
name(s) and signature(s) of the author(s) submitting it, or if submitted on behalf of an
organization, the name of the organization, and the printed name and signature of at least one
of its principal officers who is the author of the argument, by the deadline established by the
City Clerk or the County Registrar, as applicable. The rebuttal arguments shall be
accompanied by the Form of Statement To Be Filed By Author(s) of Argument to be
provided by the City Clerk.

Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the direct arguments.
Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct argument which it seeks to rebut.

SECTION 2. The provisions of Section 1 of this resolution shall apply at the
General Municipal Election on November 4, 2008, only to the ballot measure regarding the
enactment of a utility users tax submitted to the voters.

SECTION 3, The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

-221-

City of Morgan Hill

Resolution No.___

Page ~ 2 ~

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Morgan Hill at a
Regular Meeting held on the th day of July 2008 by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS

NOES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS

ABSTAIN:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS

ABSENT; COUNCIL MEMBERS

ATTEST:

APPROVED:

IRMA TORREZ, CITY CLERK	STEVE	TATE,	MAYOR

W CERTIFICATION «

I, IRMA TORREZ, CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL,
CALIFORNIA, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution
No. , adopted by the City Council at a Regular Meeting held on	, 2008.

WITNESS MY HAND AND THE SEAL OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL.

DATE:_________________

IRMA TORREZ, City Clerk

”222™

Card 2 of 2

jm Mi







p ADVISORY VOTE ONLY ....  ^ - Shall the Santa Clara VaSey Transportation Authority continue to plan, design, construct and provide transit services as described in the draft Valley' Transportation Plan 2035 (VTP 2035) to be adopted by December 2008? VOTING FOR THIS MEASURE DOES NOT INCREASE TAXES. . • ' ' *  votoconsultivoOnicamente * “ . ‘ ^  <5,Debe la Autondad de Transports del Valle de Santa Clara continuar planeando, disefiando, coristruyendo y propoitionando services de transports oonforme se desofcen en el‘ anteproyetio del Plan de .Transports del Valle 2035 (VTP 2035) a ser adoptado en dlctembre de 2008.? VOTAR POR ESTA MEDJDA NO AUMENTA LOS 1MPUESTQS,_ 		 . . •	gP-^a N1
t St\al| the follwrtng ordinance be enacted? " * * ■ ’ . :  ^ The ordinance adopted by the people of the Santa Clara VaSey Transportation Authority on March 2,1976 (Measure B) and amended by the voters at the November 6,1990 election, shall be further amended to read as foEows: "It shall be the policy of the Santa Ciara Valley Transportation Authority to submit to'the 2000 Measure A Citizen's Watchdog Committee every 6 years a comprehensive transit program for review and comment.0 * • % ■ * *  ^Debe promulgate la sfguiente ordenanza? * .  La ordenanza adoptada por la gente de la Autondad de Transports del Valle de Santa Clara el 2 de maizo de 1976 (Medlda B) y enmendada por bs votarites en la election del.6 de novlembre de 1990, deber£ enmendarse para quese lea de la slgulente manera: cDeberta ser la politica de la Autondad de Transporte del Valfe de Santa Clara presenter cada 6 anos al Co mite de Vfcilanda de Ciudadanos de la Medlda A del 2000 un prop ram a de transporte integral para sir fasten v comentario’-	gpS ^3
	IPI.
CITY OF MORGAN HILl CIUDAD DE MORGAN HILL*’	
p THE MORGAN HILL VITAL CITY SERVICES PROTECTION MEASURE ’  r* To help protect general City services Including public safety, shall the City of Morgan BBi establish a hvo percent general utility users’ lax on the use of gas, electricity, water, tetecornmumcations, video, sewer, and refuse hauling services, with low-income exemptions, to be reviewed by the City Cound every two years and . terminated if findings are not made that the tax Is necessary for the City’s financial health? . * * .  MEDJDA DEPROTECCidNDE LOS SERVICIOS VITALES DELA CIUDAD DE MORGAN HILL  A fin de ayudar a proteger !os services generates de la Ciudad kiduyendo la seguridad publca, £deba la Ciudad de Morgan Hill estabtecer un Impuesto general a los usuarios de servidos pOblicos del dos por clento sobre el uso de gas, electrlddad, agua, telecomunicaciones, video, desagOes, y rehusando sersritios de recoleccten, con exendones para las personas de bajos Ingreses, a ser revisado por el Concejo Munldpal cada dos anos y ser abolido si no se encuentran motivos de que el impuesto es necesario para la salud financtera de la Ciudad?	|p.^u  NO i^3
b 8 Shall an ordinance to exempt a total of 500 residential allotments in a 20 block area of downtown from the City of Morgan HiSte Residential Development Control fi U' System without Increasing the population cap of 48,000 in 2020 and to authorize the City Council to adopt policies and procedures Implementing Ihe exemptions1 be adopted?  ^Debe adoplarse una ordenanza para eximlr del SIstema de Control de Urbanization Residential de fa Ciudad de Morgan HiS un total de 500 lotos residenctetes en un 5rea de 20 cuadras en el centra de la cludad sin aumentar el ffmlto da pobiacldn de 48,000 en el 2020 y para autorizar al Cenceio Munldpal para que adopts polltlcas y procedimtentos que fmptementen las exenclones? . *	(JO 4®  jttu

MEASURE 6

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

Measure G, if approved by a majority vote, would authorize the
collection of a utility users tax in the City of Morgan Hill. The tax would
be a general tax imposed at the rate of two percent (2.0%) on the use of
gas, electric, water, sewer, garbage, telecommunications and
video/CATV services.

Ail revenue generated by the general tax would go to the City’s general
fund to provide general city services including, police, emergency
preparedness, libraries, youth and senior services, it is estimated that
the tax will generate approximately $1.6 million per year, which
represents approximately 6% of the City's general operating budget.'

Exemptions to the tax are expressly provided. Low income electricity
and gas users who qualify for the California Alternate Rates for Energy
(CARE) Program pursuant to the California Public Utilities Code are
exempt from the tax on gas and electricity usage. The tax would not be
levied against entities exempt by law, including federal and state
agencies and public schools.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and service
charges, and Would be collected by the utility service provider.

The levy of the utility users tax is subject to review by the City Council
not later than June 30, 201.1, and every two years thereafter.. If the
Council fails to make findings by a two thirds (2/3) vote that such tax is
necessary-for the financial health of the City, the levy of the tax will
terminate on December 31st of the year in which the Council fails to
make the required findings.

A "Yes" vote means the voter is in favor of authorizing the City to. collect
a utility users tax. A "No" vote means the voter is not in favor of the City
.collecting a Utility users tax.	•

In order for the City to cgllect a utility users tax, the ballot measure must
be approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure,

Isl Dan K. Siegel
interim City Attorney
City of Morgan Hill

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure G. if
you desire a copy of the Measure, please call the City Clerk’s.
Office at 408/779-7259, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
A copy of the Measure may also be found' at
www.mofqanhiH.ca.dov

,	.	ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G V . 2-

Nothing is more, important to the community than public safety; our
highest priority.

.The City continues its managed growth;: there are new stores and
restaurants and,more activities for kids and families. But the level of
police staffing has not kept pace and prevents us, from providing the
best and safest services.

After an extended period of intense study and community input, it is
clear that we need to efficiently deploy more officers on patrol. We
need to expand anti-gang and anli-drug enforcement efforts as crime
and gang activity increase in Morgan Hill. We need more crime
prevention officers in neighborhoods to improve safety and protect the
quality of life we enjoy in our community.

Morgan Hill has the lowest ratio of police officers to population in Santa
Clara County as well as one of the lowest per capita tax rates.

Your City Council manages The city to put your money to work as
efficiently as ..possible. Additional revenues, are needed to pay for
■increased. police . staffing -and services. Your entire: City Council
supports the needlof significantly more officers. ,	.	'

A 2% fax on utility bills is a reasonable investment to make to provide
more effective, efficient arid safer services. It is less than half the rate
assessed by neighboring cities.	•	:	W	-

This' measure will save overtime payment expenses. None of the
money raised by this measure can be taken by the state or county - it all
stays right here in Morgan Hill..

Extraordinary financial accountability features are implemented by
Measure G. In addition to annual audits; every two years, the measure
will be publicly reviewed; and only two'elected City Council member
voles would be needed to overturn it.

Please join your neighbors and friends in supporting vital City services
that protect our community^ safety, vote YES on Measure G;

IslSteve Tate	•...	,

Mayor, City of Morgan Hill

Isl Dennis Kennedy
Former Mayor

Isl Laura L. Brunton
Board Member, Chamber of Commerce

Isl Jeannette K. Riley
' Senior Advisory Commissioner

Isl Shane Palsgrave
President, Police Officers Association

PR7523-1e

N SC Ballot Type 152 ■ Page 34

	
REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G	' ^'ftdUMENf X«AiNSJ;i^i^SUj|gl!^
Without a doubt, the most important services the City is responsible for are: police, fire, sewer, and water.■ Y' ■. . ,  We strongly support public safety services! ..: ■;; . •••  But this utility tax is about Recreation Department losses.  The Morgan Hill Redevelopment Agency ("RDA") spent $65 miillon building the following recreational facilities that Council Members Tate, Sellers, and Carr pledged would be financially sound: .  2002 *• Community Center - $13.6 million 2002 -- Community Playhouse -- $3.0 million 2004 - Aquatics Center - $13.5 million 2006 - Centennial Recreation Center -- $27.5 million 2007-Outdoor Sports Center --.$7.7 million .  Yetj Recreation Department expenses have consistently exceeded revenues resulting in huge, losses. .Losses over the last six years totaled $6.6 mlllloji, and forthe next five years are projected to be $8.8 million. {These figures are from the 2003 through 2008 "Operating and QIP Budget" reports published annually by the.City.)' ; Y';! l-‘Y- ...  Without these losses, the city.could have.il5.4 million from yvhich to pay for additional police services.; ... ; • vi-K.X v;  Council Members Tate, Sellers, and Carr' pledged to/bulld financially sound recreational facilities, and they failed. They have, turned their failure into a utility tax. •'. : Y:V ■ . ■ -v’ '  Without - a' doubt, taxpayers need; and must demand strong fiscal management. If the City: vvanls mor# teoi money, a .financially sound Recreation Department plan should be presented. .'  We work hard for the money. Don't let the City Ignore Recreation Department losses. "V . ' ' -YY.-V-'-v  Vote November 4th against the utility tax) Measure \ ' . .-..Y. '; Y  To see images of supporting ’docurrient? and more detailS visif:  www.gNoWay.cpm . .' ■!,..'- - •l'. •  /s/ Patricia AEldridge Treasurer, CAUGHT Again. ; ‘ -:  /s/ArthurT.CollegeII Y • . . . Director of Pinance/As'sistant City Manager.(Former) " • ' ..  /s/Marion V. Smith •,  Concerned Resident' .. ' • ■  /$/Douglas A. McNea ' .  President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Associatipn	Vote NO because.’ : For:Elecllon Day Noyember, d999,;cu^  Members, Tate, Sellers, and Carr, signed d baibt at|(urg^fti P) asking voters to extend the RDA to build, amorig other Jt6recreatiqrj." facilities. They pledged that 1) i be built, 2) no bonded debt issued, 3) facilities* ope'raR6^iVy^btd>t)^|tj' raise taxes. All three pledges wilt be broken Here’s what actually happened. -VY :  Fiscal Year Ending June ("FYEJune“)£0Q3: .  December - Community & Cultural Center Grand Opening V'v)] :• •*' Recreation operating LOSS ~ $616,127 >  FYEJune 2004:  June - Aquatics Center Grand Pppnjng, 4 ! Recreation operating LOSS —.$917,986 • I  FYEJune2005:1 ;!\ Y'/Y" VV v. ^ ’ ■ Juiv i Treasurer: 'five vear Dian.i. identified... sfrona ootehtial for a :, shortage of revenue" . - !/v. ••>. .* \\ " Vi.Si •  Feb ■Carr:' "Council...policy inplace..; projects areto break hven" :  . : May - Tate; - "pledge was'made to the: public -to-makO these operatidn's,cost recovery" V-.-; - V ;..../ . : . Y- ‘ =' May - Seilers: Council "mav have. Put themselves, iri^a box .declaring these facilities would be able td payTor themselves" . Vs-;!  ’. v JuheS G'rzan:. ■ "City has built facilities' without' a mechanism to  "sustainthem";;-1 \)';Y Y-Y.V-YV '• YV -VYi. •• RecreationLOpfefating'LOSS--s$lVp18,906 / : - -.!' •“*,!*  FYEJune2006:,,;V-V;.■.. 0'•/ . V • ’/: ‘! ! t ’.aahuaryV'Council begins Community' Conversation regarding General'Furl'd LOSS . /V’r V: ;! rV 7 April r CommunitVConversatioh Resulis.y "3i%sSupported cuts to: recreation?- -: . y i; ■' '•* : !*.. ’ >. Y. /•; Recrea%ri;Op^ting^OiS$r$1,065,414 . '-. .  FYEJune2007: ' "!;/ ' ;;*•.. v r , . October -Centehniai R'ecreatibn Center Grand Opening ’ . ; , ,  . Recreation operating LOS$-$1,632:428. Y..!\YY.'i  FYEJune2008: S'.Y !•'•;' . . ^ Noyember^^-Outdoor Sports Center, Grand Opening - . , ; January T Cduncii issued$liptOO0,0pQ^RDA bonded debt May ’ - 'City Connections newsletter mentions .onif public safety shortfall. Y' ' ' V •' .V..•v  Recreation operating LOSS projection -- $1,379,504 '.... • '•  ■July 2008 through June£013:' .'•> *. ,• ,' Y-. i . NoVember ■ Proposed, Utility Tax,."Vitaj City Services Protection Measure”, rhisps$1,6,00,000.annually. . ..- • ' !.•  Recreation-operating, LOSS projection -- $8,770,602 ($1(754,-120 yearly)' : ; ■ - •V- -v'. ' .Y- :

PR-?523-2e . •	'	'	.	V‘ N SC Ballot Type 152 rPage.35

	
ARGUMENT. AGAINST MEASURE G - Continued	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G .
This tax is about recreation losses and money management, not public safety.	seems that government at all levels is talking about raising taxes to continue providing services during tough economic times.
IslPatricia A Eldridge Treasurer CAUGHT Again  /s/Usa Fay Johnson Assistant Controller	Measure G is a local measure for local services right here in Morgan Hill. The Council and the community strongly support the need for expanding police services and Measure <5 will provide the revenue to make a big difference. The expenditure of the funds, generated by Measure G will be decided right here in Morgan Hill with regular public review and accountability to the taxpayers of Morgan Hill. ,
/s/ Marion V. Smith ' * Concerned Resident	Recreation programs and facilities help build a stronger community and. make Morgan Hill attractive to new private investment.
/s/Arthur T. College II Dir. of Finance/Asst, City Mgr. (Former)	But what we need now are more police officers on the street. •
	VoteYESonMeasureG;• . r .- ,
■; ‘ . .. . { : . • ,	/s/Steve fate • - •. y; :• •*.' ■? v .“ : • ' '- . Mayor, City qf Morgan Hill /
*; ■ ■ *.■ /' :*: v . ’ ' ‘ v-.,	/s/Shane Palsgove. ' ; • . . ;; ?. .  . President; P.oliceOffices Association ; .• •• V: ;
	/s/J. Robert Foster, .. : •. •' •. Attorney at law ’
Y	/s/Loreri^a"Lori"Escobar, ... : YogthAdvocate ■ ;.{•
■ ' 1 '■ ' L'\ ' ; * *.  i . * * / ' V v. *V ' , •	/s/Ma'rbyLee\ • /’ '. \ ’  . Couhcllmember , ’ ' ; •: • : ' " a. .
V '  : . ' . *' ■,' /	■ ■ ,<■ ■■ ... •;
- v . ' V ‘ ' * t : Jt > '  # \ ' ; " ‘ V . . ' . ! '  ; I- ‘ v* ■ . '  - - ; : . . , »' • . *[ / V|  ; ■ . ' i	. f i ■ \ . '■ . •*  '! • ’....... . ■ • ’ • • , / • 0 ..

pr*7523*3s	'	:	.	V	1	'	-	*	N	SC	Ballot	Type	152	-	Page	36

RESOLUTION NO. 6212

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
MORGAN HILL, CALIFORNIA, RECITING THE FACTS OF
THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2008; DECLARING THE RESULTS
AND SUCH OTHER MATTERS AS PROVIDED BY LAW.

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election was held and conducted in the City of Morgan
Hill, California, on Tuesday, November 4,2008, as required by law; and

WHEREAS, notice of the election was given in time, form and manner as provided by
law; that voting precincts were properly established; that election officers were appointed and that
in all respects the election was held and conducted and the votes were cast, received and canvassed
and the returns made add declared in time, form and manner as required by the provisions of the
Elections Code of the State of California for the holding of elections in general law cities; and

WHEREAS, the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters canvassed the returns of the
election and has certified the results to this City Council, the results are received, attached and
made a part hereof as “Exhibit A”.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL,
CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That the whole number of ballots cast in the precincts, including absentee
voter ballots and provisional ballots was 16,139..

SECTION 2. That the name of person voted for at the election for Mayor is: Steve Tate.
That the names of persons voted for at the election for Member of the City Council (two seats) are
as follows: Larry Carr, Mark Grzan, and Marilyn Librers. That the name of the person voted for at
the election for City Clerk is Irma Torrez. That the name of the person voted for at the election for
City Treasurer is Michael J. Roorda. That the measures voted upon at the election were as follows:
Measures G and H.

SECTION 3. That the number of votes given at each precinct and the number of votes
given in the City to each of the persons above named for the respective offices for which the
persons were candidates and for and against the measure are as listed in Exhibit “A” attached.

SECTION 4. The City Council does declare and determine that: Steve Tate was elected
as Mayor for the full term of two (2) years; Larry Carr was elected as Member of the City Council
for the full term of four (4) years; Marilyn Librers was elected as Member of the City Council for
the full term of four (4) years; Irma Torrez was elected as City Clerk for full term of four (4) years;
and that Michael J. Roorda was elected as the City Treasurer for full term of four (4) years.

SECTION 5. That as a result of the election, a majority of the voters did not vote in
support of Measures G and H.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6212
Page 2 of35

SECTION 6. The City Clerk shall enter on the records of the City Council of the City, a
statement of the result of the election, showing: (1) The whole number of 16,139 ballots cast in
the City; (2) The names of the persons voted for; (3) For what office each person was voted for; (4)
The measure voted upon; (5) The number of votes given at each precinct to each person, and for
and against the measure; (6) The total number of votes given to each person, and for and against
the measure.

SECTION 7. That the City Clerk shall immediately make and deliver to each of the
persons so elected a Certificate of Election signed by the City Clerk and authenticated; that the
City Clerk or her/his designee, shall also administer to each person elected the Oath of Office
prescribed in the Constitution of the State of California and shall have them subscribe to it and file
it in the office of the City Clerk, Each and all of the persons so elected shall then be inducted into
the respective office to which they have been elected.

SECTION 8. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Morgan Hill at a Regular
Meeting held on the 3rd Day of December, 2008 by the following vote.

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

NOES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

ABSTAIN:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

ABSENT:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

Larry Carr, Mark Grzan, Marby Lee,

Greg Sellers, Steve Tate

None

None

None

I, IRMA TORREZ, CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL,
CALIFORNIA, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution No.
6212, adopted by the City Council at a Regular Meeting held on December 3, 2008.

WITNESS MY HAND AND THE SEAL OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6212
Page 3 of35

CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION RESULTS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

) ss.

COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA )

I,	Jesse Durazo, Registrar of Voters of the County of Santa Clara, State of
California, hereby declare:

1.	A Presidential General Election was held in the County of Santa Clara, for
the City of Morgan Hill, on November 4, 2008 for the purpose of electing One (1)
Mayor, Two (2) Council Members, One (1) City Clerk and One (1) Treasurer to the
Governing Board.

2.	The official canvass of the returns of this election was conducted by the
Office of the Registrar of Voters in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

3.	The Statement of Votes Cast, now on file in my office, shows the number of
votes for each candidate for the Governing Board of the City of Morgan Hill and in
each of the precincts and that the total shown for each candidate are true and correct.

WITNESS rriy hand and Official Seal this 2nd day of December, 2008.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6212
Page 4 of 35

CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION RESULTS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

>

) ss.

COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA	)

I, Jesse Durazo, Registrar of Voters of the County of Santa Clara, Slate of
California, hereby declare:

1. A Presidential General Election was held in the County of Santa Clara, in
the City of Morgan Hill, on November 4, 2008 for the purpose of submitting the
following measure to the voters:

G THE MORGAN HILL VITAL CITY SERVICES PROTECTION
MEASURE

To help protect genera! City services including public safety, shall the
City of Morgan Hill establish a two percent general utility users' tax on
the use of gas, electricity, water, telecommunications, video, sewer,
and refuse hauling services, with low-income exemptions, to be
reviewed by the City Council every two years and terminated if findings
are not made that the tax is necessary for the City's financial health?

2.	The official canvass of the returns of the election was conducted by the
Office of the Registrar of Voters in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

3.	The Statement of Votes Cast, now on file at my office, shows the whole
number of voles cast for Measure G in each of the precincts and the tola! shown is
true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and Official Seal this 2nd day of December, 2008.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6212
Page 5 of35

CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION RESULTS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

)ss.

COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA )

I, Jesse Durazo, Registrar of Voters of the County of Santa Clara, State of
California, hereby declare:

1. A Presidential General Election was held in the County of Santa Clara, in ,
the City of Morgan Hill, on November 4, 2008 for the purpose of submitting the
following measure to the voters:

H Shall an ordinance to exempt a total of 500 residential allotments in
a 20 block area of downtown from the City of Morgan Hill's Residential
Development Control System without Increasing the population cap of
48,000 In 2020 and to authorize the City Council to adopt policies and
procedures implementing the exemptions be adopted?

2.	The official canvass of the returns of the election was conducted by the
Office of the Registrar of Voters In accordance with the appropriate provisions of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

3.	The Statement of Votes Cast, now on file at my office, shows Ihe whole
number of votes cast for Measure H in each of the precincts and the total shown is true
and correct.

WITNESS my hand and Official Seal this 2nd day of December, 2008.

RESOLUTION NO. 6191

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
MORGAN HILL, CALIFORNIA, SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS
AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ON TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 4, 2008, A BALLOT MEASURE REGARDING THE
ENACTMENT OF A UTILITY USERS TAX

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election has been called and is to be held in the
City of Morgan Hill, California on Tuesday November 4,2008; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized to submit to the voters a ballot measure
regarding the enactment of a utility users tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MORGAN
HILL, CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The following ballot measure shall be submitted to the voters at the
General Municipal Election to be held on Tuesday, November 4,2008:

THE MORGAN HILL VITAL CITY SERVICES PROTECTION MEASURE	Y  E  S
“To help protect general City services including public safety,	
shall the City of Morgan Hill establish a two percent general	
utility users’ tax on the use of gas, electricity, water, telecommunications, video, sewer, and refuse hauling services, with low-income exemptions, to be reviewed by the City Council every two years and terminated if findings are not	N
made that the tax is necessary for the City’s financial health?”	O

SECTION 2. The text of the ballot measure is attached to this resolution as Exhibit

A.	The text of the measure shall not be printed in ballot materials, but copies of the measure
shall be available from the City Clerk.

SECTION 3. The ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content
as required by law.

SECTION 4. The City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to contract for
the procurement and furnishing of any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and
all supplies, equipment and paraphernalia that may be necessaiy in order to properly and
lawfully conduct the election.

SECTION 5. The polls for the election shall be open at seven o’clock a.m. of the
day of the election and shall remain open continuously from that time until eight o’clock
p.m. of the same day when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in §14401 of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 2 of28

SECTION 6. Pursuant to the requirements of §10403 of the Elections Code of
the State of California, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara is hereby
requested to consent and agree to the consolidation of a General Municipal Election to be
held on Tuesday, November 4, 2008, for the purpose of submitting a ballot measure to
the voters of the City of Morgan Hill.

SECTION 7. The City of Morgan Hill requests the services of the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara and the Registrar of Voters to conduct said
General Election and to consolidate such election. The Registrar of Voters is requested
to provide all necessary election services and to canvass the returns of the General
Municipal Election.

SECTION 8. The City of Morgan Hill shall reimburse the County of Santa Clara
for services performed when the work is completed and upon presentation to the City of
Morgan Hill of a properly approved bill.

SECTION 9. The City Clerk is directed to forward without delay to the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara and to the County of Santa Clara Election
Department, each, a certified copy of this resolution.

SECTION 10. In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 11. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and
the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of
the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 12. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Morgan Hill at a Regular Meeting
held on the 23rd day of July 2008 by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

COUNCIL MEMBERS:	Larry Carr, Mark Grzan, Greg Sellers,

Steve Tate

COUNCIL MEMBERS:	MarbyLee

COUNCIL MEMBERS:	None

COUNCIL MEMBERS:	None

City of Morgan Hill
Resolution No. 6191
Page 3 of28

BO CERTIFICATION cs

I, IRMA TORREZ, CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL,
CALIFORNIA, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of
Resolution No. 6191, adopted by the City Council at a Regular Meeting held on July 23,
2008.

WITNESS MY HAND AND THE SEAL OF THE CITY OF MORGAN HILL.

DATE: