




CITY OF GALT
MEASURE R

RCity of Galt ..Anti-Gang/Anti-Drug Public, Safety
Measure: To fund police services, such as hiring addi-.
tionai officers, providing advanced training, expanding
antt-gang/drug police activities, participating in the regional
anti-drug task force, increasing , neighborhood .foot/bike,
patrols, increasing police presence at schools/parks, and
removing graffiti, shall City of Galt Ordinance levying a trans-
action and use (sales) tax of % cent, with ail funds staying in
■ Galt, citizens’ oversight and independent annual audits, be .
approved? .

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE R

Prepared by Galt City Attorney

The Galt City Council has placed Measure R on the November 4,
2008 ballot asking voters to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-04 impos-
ing a special transaction and use (sales) tax of 0.50% (one-half of
one percent) for police services,within the City of Galt. The tax
increase resulting from this special tax would be the equivalent of
one half of a cent on an item that costs one dollar, or fifty cents on
an item that costs one hundred dollars. Afull copy of Ordinance
No. 2008-04,is provided in the sample ballot.

The current tax rate in the City of Galt is 7.75%. Of the 7.75% tax
rate, 6% goes to the State, and 1.75% goes to fund County and
City operations. The special transaction and use tax would be
levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at
retail. Accordingly, if voters approve Measure R, the total tax rate
for most purchases in the City would increase to 8.25%.

As stated above, the proposed transaction and use tax is a "spe-
cial tax." Therefore, if Measure R is passed bythe votersrall rev-
enue generated from the special tax would be deposited into a
separate account created solely for the purpose of funding police
services within the City of Galt, as more fully described in
Ordinance No. 2008-04, and in the Police Services Expenditure
Plan attached to Ordinance No. 2008-04 as Exhibit 1.

Ordinance No. 2008-04 also provides for the establishment of a
Citizens' Oversight Committee to conduct an annual review of the
expenditures of revenue generated from this special tax, and to
report their findings to the City Council.

Voter approval of Measure R is required by the California
Constitution. A "yes" vote is a vote to adopt Measure R allowing
the City of Galt to levy a special transaction and use tax at the rate
of 0.50%. A "no" vote is a vote against adopting Measure R and
against the special tax. Measure R requires a "yes" vote by two-
thirds of the voters in the November 4, 2008 election in order to
become effective.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE R
EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO. 2008-04

AN ORDINANCE OF THfe CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
GALT LEVYING A SPECIAL TRANSACTION AND USE TAX
FOR ANTI-GANG, ANTI-DRUG AND PUBLIC SAFETY
(POLICE) SERVICES TO BE COLLECTED AND ADMINIS-
TERED BYTHE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION SUBJECT
TO VOTER APPROVAL

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GALT HEREBY
ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. FINDINGS, The City Council of the City of Galt
hereby finds as follows:

a.	Additional revenue is necessary to fund police services, includ-
ing such items as anti-gang and anti-drug programs, hiring
additional police officers; improving police training; updating
police equipment; and, increasing police presence in the City of
Galt's neighborhoods, parks, and schools throughout the City. '

b.	The City Council may propose that voters approve a special
transaction and use tax to raise additional funds for police
services.

c.	A special transaction and use tax is a type of special tax that
may be levied by the City Council to achieve these purposes.

d.	Pursuant.to Section 7285.91 of the Revenue and Tax Code,
the City Council may levy a special transactions and use tax for
general purposes at a rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%)
or a multiple thereof, if the ordinance proposing the tax is
approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the City Council
and the tax subsequently is approved by. a two-thirds vote of qual-
ified voters of the City voting in an election.

e.	A special transaction and use tax of one half of one percent
(0.50%) would generate sufficient revenue to fund police services
throughout the City. r '

f.	Government Code Section 53724(c) require that an election on
a special tax be consolidated with a statewide primary election, a
statewide general election, or a regularly scheduled local efection
at which ail of the electors of the local government or district are
entitled td vote.

g.	November 4, 2008 is the date of the statewide general elec-
tion, and is the next election date eligible for inclusion of the pro-
posed special taxjneasure.

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT OF CODE. Chapter 3.40 entitled,
“Special Transaction and Use Tax for Police Sendees* shall be
added to Title 3 of the Galt Municipal Code and shall read as
follows:	j

Section 3.40.010. Title. This ordinance shall be known as the City
of Galt Special Transaction and Use Tax Ordinance for Police
Services. The City of Galt hereinafter shall be called “City.” This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the
City.	•

Section 3*.40.020. Operative Date. "Operative date” means the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adop-
tion being'as set forth below.

Section'3.40.030. Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve
the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provi-
sions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purpos-
es:	•	.

A.	To levy a retail transactions and use tax for in accordance with
the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of
the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition
of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incor-
porates provisions identicalto those of the Sales a(id Use Tax Law
of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not

Ballot Type 193 Page 32

www.elections.saccounty.net

inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

G. -To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that levies
a tax and provides a measure therefore that c6n be administered
and collected by the. State Board of Equalization in a manner that
adapts itsejf as fully.as practicable to, and requires the least pos-
sible deviation from, the existing statutory, and-administrative pro-
cedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administer-
ing and collecting the California State Sales and Use taxes. .

D. To adopt a retail transactions and; use tax ordinance that can
be administered in a manner that . wilKbej to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code’ minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize
-the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions of this ordinance.

'Section 3.40.040. Contract with State. PriortO the operative date,
the City shall contract with,the State Board of Equalization to per-
form all functions incident to the administration and operation of
this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative'date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first cal-
endar quarter following the execution of: such a contract .

Section 3.40.050. Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of sell-
ing tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby levied upon
all retaijers in the City at the rate of one-half of one percent
(0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer'from the sale of alj
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.

Sectipn 3.40.060.- Place of Sale.. For the purposes of this ordi-
nance, all retail sales are. consummated at the place of business
of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is deliv-
ered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to
a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax,!
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has
more than one place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

Section 3.40.070. Use Tax.Rate. A use tax js hereby levied on
the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible per-
sonal property purchased frjorri any retailer on and -after the oper-
ative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other.consumption
in said territory at.the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of
the sales price of/.the property. The sales price shall include deliv-
ery.charges when.such charges are subject to State sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. .

Section 3.40.080. Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with th©'provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code,' all of the provisions, of Part 1 (com-
mencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of tine Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and mdde a part of this ordi-
nance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.40.090. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes.1 in adopting the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code: .	.	-

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State” is used as a part of the title of the State

Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;	.	.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken

by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in per-
forming the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this ordinance.	:	,

3; In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sec-
tions referring to the exterior boundaries of the State ofCaliforhia,
where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from’this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use dr other consumption remain subject to
tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Levy this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the State under the said provision of that code.

4. In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
.Code,

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State” in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203
and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3.40.100. Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has
been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue arid
Taxation Code, an. additional transactor’s permit.shall not be
required by this ordinance.

Section 3.40.110. - Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions
tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax levied
by the State of California or by.any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use
tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petrole-
um products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed prin-
cipally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this. State,
the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped

to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by
delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by
the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point,
For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the
City shall be satisfied:	-

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) sub-'
ject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5

Ballot type 193 Page 33

www.elections.saccounty.net

(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registra-
tion to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty
of perjury,’signed by the. buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business .out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that
address..

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price-pursuant to a contract'
entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A tease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale
I of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obli-
gated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior

• to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or leaseupon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax levied by this ordinance,
the storage, use or other consumption in this City'of tangible per-
sonal property;

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to
a transactions tax under any state-administered -transactions and
use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of per-
sons or property for hire , or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or. power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a con-
. tinuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which
the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

■5. For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise
of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers, the property into the City or participates within
the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not lim-
ited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly,
at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any rep-
resentative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented ves-
sels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required
to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may cred-
it against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for trans-
actions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for, a trans-
actions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the prop-
erty the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to'
the use tax.	*

Section 3.40.120. Amendments.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordi-
nance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue 5nd Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a
part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shail operate so as to affect the rate of tax levied by this ordi-
nance. .

B.	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217 or any successor
statute, the City Council may amend or repeal this ordinance and
any of its exhibits, but not increase or extend the rate of tax levied
herein, without a vote of the people.

Section 3.40.130. Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction
or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue
in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or
the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent
or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue arid Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be pollected. ‘

Section 3.40.140. Refunds and credits: suits and legal proceed-
ings.

A.	Refijnds of and credits for any tax paid pursuant to this
Chapter may be made only as provided for in Part 1 (commenc-
ing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B.	Suits and proceedings for-the recovery of any amount alleged
to have been erroneously or illegally determined or collected pur-
suant to this Chapter may be maintained in any court only as pro-
vided for in Part T (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code. A judgment shail not be ren-
dered in favor of the plaintiff in any action brought against the
State Board of Equalization to recover any amount paid when the
action is brought by or in the name of an assignee of the person
paying the amount or by any person other than the person who
paid the amount.

Section 3.40.150. Use of Tax Proceeds and Expenditure Plan. Ail
proceeds of the special tax levied and imposed hereunder shail be	j

accounted for and paid into a special fund or account designated
for use by the City of Galt only for police services as set forth in
the Police Services Expenditure Plan for the administration and v ?
expenditure of the tax revenue, attached to this Ordinance as
Exhibit 1. the Police Services Expenditure Plan may be amend-
ed from time to time by a.majority vote of the City Council, so long

County of Sacramento -	www.elections.saccounty.net

Ballot Type 193 Page 34

I the fund continues to be utilized for police services. However,'

» Council may not amend the Expenditure Plan until such time
all of the new police personnel proposed in the current
penditure Plan are funded. For purposes of this plan, "police
rvices" means all programs, functions and operations of the
tit Police Department, including hiring additional police person-
I; recruitment and retention of police officers; enhancing youth
ti-gang arid anti-drug programs; improving police training; pur-
asing police equipment; enhancing graffiti abatement, and,
Teasing police presence in the City of Galt's1 neighborhoods,
rks, and schools. No revenues collected pursuant to the tax
ied hereby may be spent on General Fund operating expenses
effect at the time this ordinance becomes effective, or projects
it are not a part of the Police Services Expenditure Plan.
{Revenues collected hereunder shall supplement, rather than
fireplace, existing City expenditures for police services, asreflect-
led in the FY 2007-2008 budget.

i

[Section 3.40.160. Establishment of Citizens' Oversight Committee.

[

;A Committee Established. A Citizens' Oversight Committee is
[hereby established in the City of Galt to monitor the expenditures
[of revenue collected pursuant to this Ordinance only and to report
=to the People and the City Council.'

■B. Selection of Members. Members of the Citizens’ Oversight
Committee shall be appointed by the City Council. The Committee,
shall consist of five members. Members of the Citizens’ Oversight
Committee shall not be current City of Galt employees, officials,

; contractors, or vendors of the City. Past employees, officials, con-
; tractors, and vendors shall be eligible to serve on the Committee,
^provided that there are no conflicts of interest as determined by
j the City Attorney.

i Of the members' of the Committee first appointed, three members.
[ shall be appointed for terms of two years and two members shall
' be appointed for terms three years. Their successors shall.be
appointed for terms of three years. No member may serve more
; than two consecutive three-year terms.

The City Council shall solicit members of the Citizens’ Oversight
Committee, through an open application process that is promoted
through the City's adopted recruiting process. Any resident of
Galt is eligible to apply for Committee membership, subject to the
restrictions' specified above. All applications will be reviewed by
the City Council, which will have the authority to make final deci-
sions regarding Committee composition, subject to the guidelines
in this Ordinance.

C.	Purposes and Jurisdiction. The Citizens'Oversight Committee
shall conduct .an annual review of expenditures of revenue collect-
ed pursuant to this Ordinance to determine whether such funds,
are expended for the purposes specified in the then current Police
Services Expenditure Plan. Committee members may review the
annual financial .or performance audits performed by an independ-
ent auditor during the review process. The Citizens' Oversight
. Committee shall issue an annual report on their findings to-the
City Council and to the People. Citizens’ Oversight Committee
annual report is subject to review and approval of the City Council.
The Committee shall confine its review specifically to revenues
generated pursuant to this Ordinance.

The Committee shall serve in an advisory-only role to the City
Council. Committee members shall not play a formal or informal
role in contracting, project management, or any other aspect of
the police services funded by this Ordinance.

The Committee is not charged with decision-making on spending
priorities; schedules; project details; funding source decisions;,
financing plans, including changes or revisions^ to the Police

Services Expenditure Plan; or tax rate assumptions. The
Committee shall have no jurisdiction other than that delegated to
it by the People, pursuant to this Ordinance.

The Galt City Manager or his designee shall provide reasonable
administrative or technical assistance required by the Committee
to fulfill its responsibilities or publicize its findings.

D.	Meetings. The'Citizens' Oversight Committee shall meet
annually with specific meeting dates to be determined by
Committee members. Citizens’ Oversight Committee meetings
are subject to the Brown Act. Meetings must be noticed and open
to the public. Committee minutes and reports are a matter of pub-
lic record, and must be posted on a web site provided by the City.
Additional meetings may be scheduled by the Committee as
necessary. All Committee members shall attend a training arid
orientation session prior to the first regular Committee meeting.

Committee members are expected to attend all regular meetings.
Failure to attend two consecutive meetings may result in removal
from the Committee at the discretion of the City Council. .

E.	Committee Operations. The Citizens' Oversight Committee
will select members to serve as Chair and Vice Chair of the-
Committee. A City staff person-will be appointed by the City
Manager, or the City Manager's designee to serve as Secretary.
The Secretary will be responsible for preparing, posting and dis-
tributing agendas and taking minutes at each meeting. Approved
minutes shall be made available to the public.. Committee deci-
sions, positions, findings and procedures shall require a simple
majority vote of those Committee members in, attendance. The
quorum requirement for any meeting shall be a minimum of three
(3) members.

F.	Vacancies. Committee members may be removed from the-
Committee only by the City Council for repeated absences at
comrnittee meetings, malfeasance, failure to meet the qualifica-
tions set forth in this Section, or for inability or unwillingness to ful-
fill the duties of a Committee member. In the event of removal,
resignation, or death, the City Council shall appoint a person to fill,
the vacant seat.

G.	Miscellaneous; Subject to the restrictions specifically
addressed in this Section, the Committee may draft and adopt its
own standard procedures and by-laws by majority vote. All
Citizens' Oversight Committee procedures and by-laws remain
subject to review and approval of the City Council.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance
or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the.
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons
or circumstances shall not be affected thereby The City Council
of the City of Galt hereby declares that they would have adopted
each and every provision of this ordinance regardless of the inva-
lidity of any other provision.	'	■

SECTION 4. CODIFICATION. Subject to the voter approval, the
City Clerk, in consultation with the City Attorney, is hereby author-
ized and directed to codify this ordinance in the Galt Municipal
Code.

SECTION 5. .EFFECTIVE DATE. If this ordinance is approved by
two-thirds of the voters voting on the issue at the November 4;
2008 ejection, pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, this ordi-
nance shall become effective ten (10) days after the City Council
declares the results of the election.

County of Sacramento .	WAW.electibnSiSaccounty.net

Ballot Type 193 Page 35 •

The foregoing Ordinance was introduced arid the title thereof read
at the regular meeting of the City Council on the 15th day of July,
2008 and by a unanimous vote of the City' Council members
present, further reading was waived. .

On motion by Council Member Haines, seconded by Council
Member Raboy, the foregoing Ordinance was duly passed and
adopted by the City Council of the City of Gait at a regular
adjourned meeting thereof, this 31st day of July, 2008 by the fol-
lowing vote, to wit: -

AYES: Council members: Haines, Payne, Clare, Raboy, Meredith
NOES: Council members: None
ABSTAIN: Council members: None
ABSENT: Council members: None _	,

s/Andrew Meredith, MAYOR, City of Galt

ATTEST:

s/Elizabeth Agiiire, G1TY CLERK, City of Galt
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT

I, Elizabeth Aguire, City Clerk of the City of Galt, do hereby certi-
fy that the foregoing ordinance is a true and correct copy of
.Ordinance No.- 2008-03, passed by the City Council on the day
and year set forth above, and published pursuant to law.

s/Elizabeth Aguire, CITY CLERK, City of Galt-

;



I

County of Sacramento

Tax. Rate Statement

EXHIBIT 1

‘City of Galt Anti-Gang/Anti-Drug Public Safety Measure
Six Year Expenditure Plan

2008 Sales Tax Estimate	
Estimated 2008 Taxable Sales	$197,638,000
Initiative %	' 0.5%
Estimated New Sales Tax	$988,190
Generated by Measure	

________________Community Needs

Additional Patrol Officers
Narcotics Task Force Investigator (NTF)
School Resource Officer Program (SRO)
Recruit/Retain Police Officers
911 Dispatchers

All positions listed represent new proposed staffing requests. Positions include 7 sworn and 2 civillian.
Personnel costs are inclusive of salary, benefits and related'expenses for the new positions.

Capital costs include new vehicles, and equipment for the new officers and related vehicle maintenance
and operation expenses.

Positions will not be used to supplant existing general fund -authorized personnel._______-

Funding Plan Years 1-6
Total Police Funding '
$6,686.332

Year 1 -2009	
Sales Tax	. $1,017,836
Personnel- 3 patrol, 2 dispatch, 1 SRO Capital-Vehicles, equipment & maintenance Grafitti Abatement -■	$619,724 ' $68,400 $30,000
Total Cost	$718,124
Remaining Balance ‘	$299,712

Year 3 -2011	
Sales Tax	$1,079,822
Personnel- Ongoing costs for new positions Capital- Vehicles, equipment & maintenance Grafitti Abatement	$1,081,357  .$21,546  $30,000
Total Cost	$1,1.32,903
Remaining Balance	$160,264

Year 5-2013	
Sales Tax	$1,179,166
Personnel- Ongoing costs for new positions Capital- Vehicles, equipment & maintenance Grafitti Abatement	$1,192,196  $22,711  $30,000
Total Cost	$1,244,907
Remaining Balance	$51,640

Year2-2010

Sales Tax	$1,048,371
Personnel- 2 additional patrol, 1 NTF Officer Capital- Vehicles, equipment & maintenance Grafitti Abatement ■	$1,000,203  $92,575  $30,000
Total Cost	$1,134,738
Remaining Balance	$213,345
*	
Year 4.-2012	
Sales Tax	‘ $1,123,015
Personnel- Ongoing costs for new positions Capital- Vehicles, equipment & maintenance Grafitti Abatement	$1,113,798  $22,101  $30,000
Total Cost	■ $1,165,898
Remaining Balance	$117,381

Year 6-2014	
Sales Tax	$1,238,124
Personnel- Ongoing costs for new positions Capital- Vehicles, equipment & maintenance Grafitti Abatement	$1,189,777  $23,382  $30,000
Total Cost .	$1,243,159
Remaining'Balance	$46,604 — -*	

ounty of Sacramento	www.elections.saccounty.net

1	Ballot	Type	193	Page	37

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

Concerned about gangs? Make Galt safer - Yes on R.

Why Yes on R? 70% of violent crime in Galt is gang related.
Methamphetamine and drug trafficking are serious problems. Gang
violence and drug use in Gait is on the rise. There are 150 active
gang members and associates living in Galt. Gangs are coming
into Galt from Stockton and Sacramento to commit crimes.

Yes on R gives our Galt Police Department additional officers to
fight gangs. There are now only; 6 patrol officers on duty at any
given time and only 2 at night when, crimes are most likejy to
happen. Yes on R gives our community the, police officers we need!

Want more police officers to patrol our streets, arrest cririiinals and
parole violators? Vote Yes on R increases police . presence in
neighborhoods,, parks and schoois and provide the protection you
need and deserve.,

Yes on R expands youth drug and gang prevention programs to
keep kids off the streets and put of trouble., Yes on R cracks down
on gangs, drugs and crime by expanding the city's anti-gang police
activities and allowing the City to participate in the County anti-drug
taskforce.

Vote Yes on R means Fiscal Accountability! R requires mandatory
annual,, financial audits, Independent Citizen's Oversight, and a
separate Public Safety Fund to ensure money is spent as promised.
Revenues are in addition to existing Public Safety funding.
Prescription medication and food purchased as groceries are
exempt from Measure R.

/All money raised by Yes on R is legally required to stay in Galt,
giving our community control over how our local money is
spent—Sacramento can't'take the money. By funding our police,
Yes on R ensures that you receive excellent public safety
Services - find R on your ballot and vote yes.

s\ Bruce Ramos,. Police Officers Association

s\ Lee Ann McFaddih, Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors

’	\	t

s\ Terry Parker-Owning, Board of Trustee,

Galt Union School District

s\ Valerie Garbarino, Crime Stoppers Board Member
sY Noni Garcia, Neighborhood Watch Captain

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R WAS FILED

County of Sacramento

www.elections.saccounty.net