SECTION 96.209. PARCEL TAX APPEAL PROCESS

A property owner, who has paid a fire protection parcel tax levied upon a parcel, may file a parcel
appeal challenging the accuracy of the tax with the County Assessor. Property owners who file
parcel tax appeals may provide any evidence or information in support of their parcel tax appeals.
The Assessor's Office shall review the parcel tax appeal, including the factors upon which the fire
protection parcel tax was applied to the parcel. The purpose and function of the parcel tax appeal
process will be to correct or adjust any application of the parcel tax so that such application of the
parcel tax is consistent with the principles, intent, and parameters of the provisions set forth in this
Chapter. The Assessor's Office may receive evidence, information and explanation, if necessary,
from the offices of the County Auditor & Controller and Treasurer-Tax Collector with respect to the
application of the parcel tax to a parcel. If after proof has been supplied by the property owner
and after a full review by the Assessor's Office, the Assessor's Office finds that the fire protection
parcel tax for the parcel was applied in error, and requires an adjustment, the Assessor shall
inform the Auditor & Controller to make the necessary adjustments to correct the tax roll, and the
Auditor & Controller shall correct the tax roll, for the parcel for the fiscal year(s) which requires
adjustment. The determination by the County Assessor on all parcel tax appeals pursuant to this
Section shall be final.

SECTION 96.210. AMENDMENTS.

(a)	Board of Supervisors Authorized to Make Designated Amendments. Except as provided
in subdivision (b) of this section that reserves to the voters the right to amend this
Chapter, the Board of Supervisors, with the concurrence of the San Diego Regional Fire
Protection Agency, may amend this Chapter in a manner that is consistent with and in
furtherance of the purpose and intent of this Chapter.

(b)	Voter Approval Required to Make Designated Amendments. Voter approval is required to
make any amendments to this Chapter with respect to any of the following:

(1)	Increase the amount of the fire protection parcel tax, as adjusted by the annual
adjustment, established and authorized pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (b) of
Section 96.203.

(2)	Increase the amount of the annual adjustment established under subdivision (e) of
Section 96.203.

(3)	Increase the duration of the parcel tax required under subdivision (f) of Section
96.203.

(4)	Expand the purposes for which the revenues from the special tax may be expended
beyond the description set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 96.203.

(5)	Change the fire protection parcel tax allocation provisions set forth in subdivisions
(a), (b), and (c) of Section 96.204.

(6)	Change the provisions set forth in this subdivision (b) concerning what amendments
are reserved to the voters to approve.

Section 3. Severability. If any portion of this Ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional,
invalid or otherwise unenforceable, the other provisions of this Ordinance shall remain in full force
and effect to the extent the purposes of this Ordinance as set forth in Section 1 can still be carried
out.

Section 4. Effective Date. Pursuant to Government Code Section 25123, this Ordinance
involves a rate of taxes to be levied, and if approved by the voters on Tuesday, November 4,
2006, shall take effect on Wednesday, November 5, 2008.

Section 5. Operative Date. This Ordinance shall become operative on January 1, 2009.

N SD 463-048

CITY OF EL CAJON
Proposition J

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROP J

To prevent further cuts and preserve funding for general city services, including
maintaining firefighters and police officers for adequate emergency response,
reducing crime and criminal gang/drug activity, maintaining city streets/parks, and
preserving youth/after-school programs; shall the City of El Cajon adopt an ordinance
enacting a one-half cent transactions and use (sales) tax, automatically expiring in
twenty years, with independent oversight, mandatory audits and all money staying
local to preserve El Cajon city services?

This proposition requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%)
of the voters voting on the proposition.

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Proposition J proposes to raise revenue for the purpose of preserving funding for essential city
services by authorizing a sales tax of one-half of a cent within the City of El Cajon. The tax would
be paid in addition to the current state and local sales taxes, including the City's existing one-half
cent sales tax approved by voters in 2004. It would be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council to levy a
transaction and use tax (i.e., a "sales") tax for general purposes at a rate of 0.25 percent (or any
multiple thereof) if the tax is approved by a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in a
general municipal election. If approved by the voters, the sales tax will be adopted by ordinance
to become effective no sooner than April 1, 2009. By its terms, the sales tax would be eliminated
twenty (20) years following the effective date of the tax.

The revenues raised from the sales tax are not specified for a particular purpose, but will be
available to fund ongoing and essential governmental services, including police and fire
operations, recreational services, parks and building maintenance services, and other, general,
city services.

The sales tax increases will be subject to certain conditions, including a provision for independent
oversight, both in the collection of the tax and the appropriation of the tax revenues, by a citizen's
advisory committee, which shall report any findings to the community. Further, expenditure of the
funds will be subject to the City's annual independent audit.

Under the terms of the proposed ordinance and California law sales of property to be used
outside of the City of El Cajon, and which are delivered to the purchaser outside of the City, are
exempt from the tax. Motor vehicles, aircraft and marine vessels sold in the City of El Cajon, but
to non-City residents, are considered "delivered" outside the City of El Cajon so long as the
property is registered to an out-of-City address and certain other requirements are met.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the Ordinance for Proposition
"J". If you desire a copy of the Ordinance, please call the El Cajon City Clerk's
Office at (619) 441-1763 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost. It is also
available on the City's website at www.ci.el-cajon.ca.us.

PR-Q9E0-1

N SD 463-049

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION J

Local police officers, firefighters, business and civic leaders, parents and citizens
throughout El Cajon urge you to VOTE YES on Proposition J—to protect our community
from devastating cuts that will impact El Cajon's quality of life for years to come.

Our City is facing a serious budget crisis. Like many other communities in California, El Cajon's
problem is a growing General Fund deficit caused by skyrocketing operational costs at a time
when city revenues are declining. The City has no control over these trends yet it must address
them to maintain a balanced budget.

City leaders have been proactive in controlling costs by reducing services, eliminating positions
and programs, delaying infrastructure maintenance, using attrition, and implementing strict cost
controls. But now there is nothing left to cut except essential services including public safety.

Proposition J will PREVENT extreme reductions in essential City services Including:

•	Eliminating dozens of police and firefighter positions

•	Taking emergency equipment out of service—hurting 911 emergency response times

•	Drastically reducing street maintenance services

•	Terminating Recreation programs including after-school activities that keep kids away from
drugs, gangs and crime

Because of the scale of El Cajon's budget shortfall, only two choices remain: generate additional
revenue or continue making deep cuts to city services.

Proposition J, will provide a stable source of local funding to prevent devastating and extreme
cuts to El Cajon City services.

100% of Proposition J funds will stay in El Cajon to provide essential city services—including
public safety, so emergency responders like police, firefighters, and paramedics are available to
help when you need them most.

Proposition J REQUIRES accountability. An Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee and
mandatory audits will ensure funds are spent properly. Future changes to Proposition J cannot
be made without a vote of the people.

Protect vour investment in El Cajon.

PLEASE—VOTE YES on J.

RODNEY L. GEILENFELDT II
El Cajon Firefighter Paramedic &
El Cajon Resident

BUELL W. STONE
Local Businessman &

Executive Director for Stoney's Kids

DEBBIE COMSTOCK
Community Advocate &
El Cajon Resident

JIM REDMAN

El Cajon Police Officer &
18 Year Resident

WILLIAM B. KOLENDER
El Cajon Resident

PR-09E0-2

N SD 463-050

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION J

SHAME ON THE CITY COUNCIL FOR TRYING TO FOOL TAXPAYERS.

Prop J pretends to be a tax primarily for fire and police protection.

That is false; Prop J is a smokescreen. NOT ONE CENT in Prop J is earmarked for public safety.

All Prop J money goes into the city General Fund so politicians can spend it however they want.

The true reason for Prop J is that salaries and benefits now eat up 77% of the General Fund. El
Cajon has a Rolls Royce employee pension plan. Employees do not contribute a penny to their
guaranteed City pensions; YOU pay it all.

In a shocking admission of defeat, city officials write, "all costs are out of the City's control." They
cannot control themselves, so they want taxpayers to pay for their spending binge.

PROP J TAX GIVES EL CAJON THE HIGHEST SALES TAX RATE IN THE STATE.

Prop J's tax hike is in addition to the proposed County fire tax, and a likely statewide sales tax
hike. In the face of a looming recession, another tax hike is the last thing we need in El Cajon.

High taxes in El Cajon will add to the cost of gasoline, driving major retail purchases away from El
Cajon to cities that charge lower s^les taxes.

PROP J FORCES THE SECOND EL CAJON SALES TAX HIKE IN FOUR YEARS.

El Cajon administrators have spent nearly $20,000 of your tax dollars to induce voters to support
higher taxes.

El Cajon voters shouldn't be bullied into higher taxes by politicians who prey on our genuine
concerns for safety services and other vital needs.

Please vote "No on J" to stop higher taxes in El Cajon - the highest tax rate in California. Tell
politicians you resent efforts to fool you about how our tax money is spent.

Please vote NO on Prop J.

www.NoEICaionSalesTax.org

THE HONORABLE JOEL ANDERSON
California State Assemblyman

San Diego County

Taxpayers Association, Chairman

JOHN O'NEILL

RICHARD RIDER

San Diego Tax Fighters, Chairman

MICHAEL METTI

El Cajon Homeowner/Businessowner

TONY KRVARIC
Republican Party of San Diego County, Chairman

N SD 463-051