VOTER’S BOOKLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

EL MEDIO FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
MEASURE B

EL MEDIO EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND FIRE
PROTECTION SERVICES MEASURE. To provide local fire
protection and rapid emergency response services for the El
Medio community, so victims of heart attacks, strokes, car
accidents and other medical emergencies can receive rapid
response care, to protect our homes and businesses from fire,
to receive matching state funds, and to keep insurance rates
manageable, shall an annual special property tax be
authorized with all revenue staying in our community for local
fire protection and emergency medical response services?

EL MEDIO FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “B” BY
BUTTE COUNTY COUNSEL

The Butte County Counsel has prepared the following
impartial analysis of Measure “B” pursuant to Elections Code
Section 9313. This analysis is not an argument for or against the
measure.

This measure is being submitted to the voters within
the El Medio Fire Protection District (the “District”), pursuant to
the requirements of Proposition 218, which was approved by
California voters in November 1996. Proposition 218 prohibits a
special tax increase within the District unless and until the
increase is submitted to the voters within the District and
approved by a two-thirds vote.

This measure would authorize an increase in the
special tax within the District for fire protection and prevention, as
specified in Resolution 2008-02, adopted by the Board of
Directors of the District on July 9, 2008. If the measure is
approved by two-thirds or more of the votes cast on the measure,
the increase in the special tax will be imposed on real property in
the District for fiscal year 2008-2009 and each fiscal year
thereafter. The amount of the special tax increase for each
parcel of real property would be based upon the classification of
improvements and uses of property, as specified below:

a.	Residential. In the case of single-family
residences and mobile homes, the tax will be an
additional Fifty-Eight Dollars ($58.00) per parcel.
In the case of other residential designations, the
tax will be based upon the number of dwelling
units.

b.	Commercial/I ndustrial.	An additional Two

Hundred Dollars ($200.00) per parcel.

c.	Agricultural/Vacant. An additional Fifty Dollars

($50.00) per acre.

d.	Institutional/Miscellaneous. An additional
Seventy-Five Dollars ($75.00) per parcel.

After notice and hearing, the classification of the
improvement and use of each parcel of real property would be
determined as of July 15th of each year for the succeeding fiscal
year. Any landowner could appeal the determination with respect
to the landowner’s parcel by filing written notice at the District
office.

The special tax increase would not be imposed upon
real property owned by the Federal or State governments or
another local district.

The special taxes imposed by the District could be
increased in the future by an annual amount not to exceed three
percent (3%) per year.

The amount of the tax imposed each year would
appear as a separate item on each tax bill and would be
collected on behalf of the District by the County in the same
manner and at the same time as property taxes.

The revenues generated from the special tax could
only be used for local fire protection and rapid emergency
response services within the District.

/s/Brnce S. Alpert
Butte County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure B.

If you desire a copy of the measure, please call the Election
Official’s Office at 800-894-7761 or 530-538-7761 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

In order to ensure that the El Medio community continues to
receive fire protection and emergency medical services, we need
a local Fire Department with local firefighters and a local station
right here in our community - The El Medio Fire Protection
District! After many years of providing fire protection and
emergency medical services, the District will no longer be able to
be provide top-quality emergency medical and fire protection
services without this much-needed support.

If you are in doubt about the Fire Measure, consider the following
reasons to support it. A Yes vote will provide a local fire station

CONTINUED NEXT PAGE

04-514

VOTER’S BOOKLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

MEASURE B - ARGUMENT IN FAVOR CONTINUED

in our community for vital fire protection and emergency medical
response services that we need. A Yes vote will help us protect
property and save lives. A Yes vote will also keep our fire
insurance premiums affordable. A Yes vote will allow the El
Medio Fire Protection District to be able to receive grants for
equipment and to enter in mutual aid agreements with other
emergency service providers.

If Measure B fails, it is unclear what local agency will be
responsible for providing fire and emergency medical response
services to the El Medio community -- response times for medical
emergencies and fires could increase from 4 minutes to 20
minutes. A Yes vote on this measure will make sure we receive
rapid responses to medical emergencies!

Measure B includes strict accountability provisions to ensure that
all funds will only be used locally. Annual financial audits are
required and an Independent Citizens’ Fire Advisory Committee
will oversee all expenditures from Measure B funds.

Please vote Yes for a safer El Medio.

Is/ Colene Davis
Is/ Jeff Cooper
Is/ Gary R. Nystuen
Is/ Joe A. Farmer
Is/ Bruce F. Lewis

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED
AGAINST MEASURE B

FULL TEXT
MEASURE B
EL MEDIO EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND FIRE
PROTECTION SERVICES MEASURE

The El Medio Fire Protection District will levy a special tax on
each taxable parcel of land within the District at the following
annual rates:

•	Single-family residential - $58 per parcel

•	Mobile homes on a separate parcel - $58 per parcel

•	Other Residential -- $58 per dwelling unit

•	Commercial / Industrial -- $200 per parcel

•	Agricultural / Vacant - $50 per acre

•	Institutional / Miscellaneous - $75 per parcel

In order to help ensure that the revenues from the special tax
grow in line with the inflation adjusted cost of providing local fire
protection and emergency medical emergency services, the tax
rate may increase in future years by an annual amount not to
exceed 3% per year.

Taxable parcels are those parcels that appear on the annual
secured Butte County property tax roll. Assessor's Use Codes
are those codes used by the Butte County Assessor's Office to
identify and categorize property.

The purpose of this parcel tax will be to ensure continued local
fire suppression, protection and emergency response services for
all residents of the District and visitors to the area. The revenues
raised by this special tax will only be used to defray operating
expenses, capital improvement expenditures and debt repayment
to accomplish the foregoing purposes.

The District’s appropriations limit will be increased by the amount
of this voter-approved tax.

The special tax revenues shall be deposited into a separate
account held by the Butte County Treasurer, in accordance with
Government Code Section 50075.1, and shall be expended
according to a plan developed annually by the District staff and
approved and adopted by the District’s Board of Directors. A
citizens’ oversight committee appointed by the Board will review
and report on the expenditure of tax revenues.

The District will cause to be filed an annual report with its Board
of Directors, which report shall include the amount of special tax
revenues collected and expended, and which shall otherwise
comply with the accountability measures established in
Government Code Sections 50075.1 et seq.

04-515