<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

Approval of Measure U would amend an existing County ordinance by
authorizing of the continued imposition and past collection of a Utility User Tax
(“Utility Tax”) on communications, electricity, and gas usage in the
unincorporated areas of the County, reducing the Utility Tax from 5% to 4.5%,
and affirming that the Board of Supervisors may amend the ordinance for
specified reasons so long as there is no increase in the tax levy.

The Utility Tax is a general tax that would be available for funding essential
government services including Sheriffs deputies, parks, libraries, street repairs
and other general fund services. The Utility Tax would continue to be imposed
on every person or entity using communication services, electricity, and gas in the
unincorporated areas of the County, and would be imposed at a rate of 4.5% of
the charges made for such services. Communication services subject to the tax
include telecommunication and ancillary telecommunication services such as
landline and wireless telephone service, voice over internet, paging, and text
messaging, but do not include internet service. Gas services means natural or
manufactured gas or alternate hydrocarbon fuel which is transported and
delivered through a pipeline or by mobile transport. Electricity services means
electricity and any supplemental services or other associated activities directly
related to and/or necessary for providing electricity to the user. The Utility Tax
would also be imposed on any non-utility service user which produces gas or
electricity for self-use.

The Utility Tax would continue to be collected by the utility service provider or
its billing agent at the same time as, and along with, the collection of the charges
made in accordance with regular billing practices of the service supplier. The
Utility Tax becomes a debt if not paid in accordance with the ordinance.
Continued failure to pay may result in a delinquent penalty of 15% of the tax
owed and interest at 1.5% per month until paid. The ordinance establishes an
administrative procedure for refunds and appeals of the Utility Tax.

The County would be required to annually verify by an independent third party
that the taxes owed have been properly applied, exempted, collected and
remitted. The Auditor-Controller of the County is required to create a new
account into which the proceeds from the Utility Tax shall be deposited. The
Auditor-Controller must file a report with the Board of Supervisors by no later
than January 1, 2010, and by January 1 of every year thereafter stating the
amount of the funds collected and expended.

The Utility Tax would not apply to any person who is the head of household and
who is both aged 62 or older and receives supplemental social security benefits,
by filing for an exemption with the Tax Administrator.

This measure requires a majority vote of the qualified votes cast in the election
held in the unincorporated area of the County for passage, and becomes
effective immediately if passed. <impartialend> 










<impartialsigs> By Raymond G. Fortner, Jr., County Counsel <impartialsigsend>










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

PERCENT UTILITY USER TAX REDUCTION AND UPDATE

Since 1991, residents of the unincorporated area of Los Angeles County have
paid a 5% Utility User Tax on electric, gas and telecommunication services. Los
Angeles County uses this funding to provide essential services like Sheriff
deputies, health care, park and library operations, street repairs and other
general fund services.

Technology has changed since 1991, and the tax ordinance language is outdated.
To keep pace with the advances in technology, this measure will modernize the
Utility User Tax language. Updating the ordinance language allows the tax to be
reduced from 5 percent to 4.5% (a ten percent reduction) because all taxpayers
will be treated equally regardless of the technology they use, today and in the
future.

NO INTERNET SERVICES WILL BE TAXED, including such items as
browsers, search engines and email or digital downloads such as books, music,
ringtones, games, and similar digital products under the updated ordinance.

The exemption from the Utility User Tax for low-income senior citizens of the
unincorporated area will continue, and the County will verify, on an annual basis
through a qualified independent third party, that the Utility User Taxes have
been properly applied, exempted, collected and expended.

Without the Utility User Tax the County would either have to reduce services or
raise other revenue.

Reduce and update the Utility User Tax to continue essential services provided
by the County. Vote “Yes” on Measure U. <favorend>









<favorsigs> YVONNE B. BURKE, Chair
2nd District, Supervisor

GLORIA MOLINA
1st District Supervisor

LEROY D. BACA
Sheriff

RUSS GUINEY

Director, Parks and Recreation

JOSEPH A. CISLOWSKI, Chair

Library Commission, County of Los Angeles Public Library <favorsigsend>









<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U

The utility tax proposed by the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors will
result in a tax increase for the more than one million residents of the
unincorporated portions of Los Angeles County.

On the face of it, the new tax would reduce the tax rate from 5% to 4.5% on
utilities; however, since so many more services would be taxed, the overall
amount people will pay will go up.

The new utility tax would expand telecommunications taxes to those services not
presently taxed by the County, such as, cellular telephone communications,
conference calls, service changes to phone lines, billing services, custom calling
features, voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), text messaging and paging
services.

This is just another new tax for residents to pay.

By expanding the scope of telecommunications services to be taxed, the effect
will be that the costs of business services and production will be passed on to the
consumer. And it reinforces the already unfriendly business climate that exists in
the Los Angeles region.

The Valley Industry and Commerce Association (VICA) urges a NO vote on

Measure U. <againstend>







<againstsigs> GREGORY N. LIPPE
VICA Chairman

BOBBI FIEDLER
Member of Congress (Retired)

KEITH RICHMAN
Former Assemblyman

RON KAYE
Honorary Chairman
Saving L.A. Project

CAMERON M. SMYTH
Assemblyman, 38th District <againstsigsend>









<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U

Fact: Yes on Measure U reduces the tax rate you currently pay on utilities from
5 percent to 4.5 percent.

Measure U proposes a 10 percent tax rate reduction for Electric, Gas, and
Telecommunications Utilities. No internet services such as browsers, search
engines or e-mail will be taxed.

YES on U ensures everyone pays their fair share by modernizing the law to
include new technologies that did not exist when the ordinance was written
nearly 20 years ago. The current Utility User Tax language is outdated and unfair
because the current ordinance does not reflect the new technologies developed
in recent years. Therefore, some residents are being taxed while others are not.

Measure U requires annual independent audits and public expenditures reports
to ensure funds are used as promised. Measure U also maintains the existing tax
exemption for low-income seniors.

Yes on Measure U maintains local funding for vital community services. At a
time when Sacramento is making severe cuts due to the State budget crisis,
Measure U protects critical funding for local services, and by law Measure U
funds cannot be taken away by State government.

Vote YES on Measure U to ensure funding for local essential public services and
programs including: park maintenance and early morning parks patrol
services; increased Public Library operating hours; increased patrol for
Community-Oriented Policing (COPS); code enforcement; and a variety of
safety net health services.

Vote YES on Measure U to protect the vital funding that will stay in the County. <rebutagainstend> 








<rebutagainstsigs> YVONNE B. BURKE
LA County Supervisor

GLORIA MOLINA

Los Angeles County Supervisor

RUSS GUINEY

Director, Los Angeles County Dept, of Parks and Recreation
JOSEPH A. CISLOWSKI

Chair, Library Commission, County of Los Angeles Public Library <rebutagainstsigsend> 









<full> PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE U

An ordinance amending Title 4 - Revenue and Finance of the Los Angeles
County Code, relating to the tax imposed on charges for communications,
electricity and gas usage.

The People of the County of Los Angeles ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. Chapter 4.62 is hereby amended to read as follows:

4.62 UTILITY USER TAX

4.62.020 Tax imposed.

4.62.030	Definitions.

4.62.040	Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions.

4.62.050	Senior citizen exemption.

4.62.060	Communication user tax.

4.62.070	Electricity user tax.

4.62.080	Gas user tax.

4.62.090	Collection of tax from service users receiving direct purchase of gas or
electricity.

4.62.100	Bundling taxable items with non-taxable items.

4.62.110	Substantial nexus /minimum contacts.

4.62.120	Duty to collect-procedures.

4.62.130	Collection penalties - service suppliers.

4.62.140 Actions to collect.

4.62.150	Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

4.62.160 Administrative remedy - non-paving service users.

4.62.170 Additional powers and duties of the tax administrator.

4.62.180 Records.

4.62.190 Refund claims.

4.62.200 Appeals.

4.62.210 Severability.

4.62.220 Notice of changes to ordinance.

4.62.230 Effect of state and federal reference/authorization.

4.62.240 Independent audit of tax collection, exemption, remittance, and
expenditure.

4.62.250 Remedies cumulative.

4.62.260 Interaction with Prior Tax.

4.62.010	Short title.

This chapter shall be known as the “Utility User Tax Ordinance.”

4.62.020	Tax imposed.

There is  continued and imposed, a utility user tax in the manner and
at the rates set forth in this chapter.

4.62.030 Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this chapter shall be
construed as defined in this section.

A. “Ancillary telecommunication services” means
services that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment
of telecommunications services, including but not limited to the following
services:

1.	“Conference bridging service.” which is an ancillary service that links two or more participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the
provision of a telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include
the telecommunications services used to reach the conference bridge.

2.	“Detailed telecommunications billing service.” which is an ancillary service of separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s
billing statement.

3.	“Directory assistance.” which is an ancillary service of providing telephone
number information, and/or address information.

4.	“Vertical service.” which is an ancillary service that is offered in connection with one or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling
features that allow customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and
call connections, including conference bridging services.


5. “Voice mail service.” which is an ancillary service that enables the customer to
store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include
any vertical services that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize
the voice mail service.

B.  “Billing address” means the
mailing address of the service user where the service supplier submits invoices or
hills for payment by the customer.

C. “County” means the County of Los Angeles. 

D. ‘Communication services’- means: “telecommunication services” and “ancillary telecommunication services.”



E.  “Gas” means natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel, which may be substituted therefor.

F. “Mobile telecommunications service” has the same meaning and usage as set
forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act
(4 U.S.C. Section 1241 and the regulations thereunder.

G. “Month” means a calendar month.

H. p “Non-utility service supplier” means:

1.	A service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all
or a significant portion of the County. which generates electricity for sale to
others, and shall include but is not limited to any publicly-owned electric utility.
investor-owned utility, cogenerator, distributed generation provider, exempt
wholesale generator (42 U.S.C.S. Section 16451V municipal utility district-
federal power marketing agency, electric rural cooperative, or other supplier or
seller of electricity:


2.	An electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator,
pool operator, or other electricity supplier other than a supplier of electric
distribution services to all or a significant portion of the County, which sells or
supplies electricity or supplemental services to electricity users within the
County: or

3.	A gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than a supplier of
gas distribution services to all or a significant portion of the County. which sells
or supplies gas or supplemental services to gas users within the County.

I.	“Paging service” means a “telecommunications service” that provides
transmission of coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers:
such transmissions may include messages and/or sounds.

J.	“Person” means, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust,
common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club.
joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation
(including foreign, domestic, and non-profit'), cooperative, receiver, trustee,
guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court. For purposes
of this chapter, “person” does not mean any federal or state agency, or
subdivision thereof, including the County.

K.	“Place of primary use” means the street address representative of where the
customer's use of the communications service primarily occurs, which must be
the residential street address or the primary business street address of the
customer.

L.	“Post-paid telecommunication service” means the telecommunication service
obtained by making a payment on a communication-by-communication basis
either through the use of a credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank
card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service
number which is not associated with the origination or termination of the
telecommunication service.

M. “Prepaid telecommunication service” means the right to access
telecommunication services, which must be paid for in advance and which
enables the origination of communications using an access number or
authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed, and that is sold in
predetermined units or dollars of which the number declines with use in a known
amount.


N.	“Private telecommunication service” means a telecommunication service that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or
group of channels between or among termination points, regardless of the
manner in which such channel or channels are connected, and includes switching
capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other associated services that are
provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A
communications channel is a physical or virtual path of communications over
which signals are transmitted between or among customer channel termination
points tie., the location where the customer either inputs or receives the
communications).

O.	“Service address” means the residential street address or the business street
address of the service user. For a communication service user, “service address”
means either:

1.	The location of the service user’s communication equipment from which the
communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the communication
is billed or paid: or

2.	If the location in subsection (11 of this definition is unknown te.g.. mobile
telecommunications service or voice over internet protocol (VoIP) service), the
service address means- the location of the service user’s place of primary use.

3.	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” means the location
associated with the service number.

P.	“Service supplier” means any person, including the County. who provides or
sells communication, electric, or gas service to a user of such services within the
County. The term shall include any person required to collect, or
self-collect under section 4.62.090 of this chapter, and remit a tax as imposed by
this chapter, including its billing agent in the case of electric, or gas service
suppliers.

O.	“Service user” means a person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter.

R.	“State” means the State of California.

S.	“Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement” means the multi-state
agreement commonly known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use
Tax Agreement, and as it is amended from time to time.


T.	“Tax Administrator” means the Treasurer and Tax Collector of the County of
Los Angeles or his or her designee.

U.	“Telecommunications services” means the transmission, conveyance, or
routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a
point, or between or among points, whatever the technology used. The term
“telecommunications services” includes such transmission, conveyance, or
routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or
routing without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over
internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal
Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video
and/or data services that are functionally integrated with “telecommunication
services.” “Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to the
following services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are
calculated or billed: intrastate, interstate, and international communication
services, ancillary telecommunication services: mobile telecommunications
service: prepaid telecommunication service: post-paid telecommunication
service: private telecommunication service: paging service: 800 service for any
other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission!: and 900 service (or any other similar numbers designated by the
Federal Communications Commission for services whereby subscribers who call
in to pre-recorded or live service!. “Telecommunication services” shall not
include digital downloads that are not “ancillary telecommunication services.”
such as books, music, ringtones, games, and similar digital products, nor shall it
apply to such internet services as browsers, search engines, and email.
“Telecommunication services” shall not include cable or video programming
services that are subject to a cable or video service franchise fee.

V.	“VoIP” or “Voice over Internet Protocol” means the technology used to
transmit real-time, two-wav voice conversations over a data network using
Internet Protocol.

W.	“800 service” means a “telecommunications service” that allows a caller to
dial a toll-free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is
typically marketed under the name “800.” “855.” “866.” “877.” and “888”
toll-free calling, and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission.

X.	“900 service” means an inbound toll “telecommunications service” purchased
by a subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s
prerecorded announcement or live service.


“900 service” does not include the charge for: collection services provided by the
seller of the “telecommunications services” to the subscriber, or service or
product sold by the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is
typically marketed under the name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

4.62.050	4.62.040 Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person
or service when the imposition of such tax upon that person such person or
service would be in violation of California a federal or state statute, the
Constitution of the United States, or the Constitution of the state of California
State.

B.	Anv service user that is exempt from the tax imposed bv this chapter pursuant
to subsection (At of this section shall file an application with the Tax
Administrator for an exemption. Said application shall be made upon a form
approved bv the Tax Administrator and shall state those facts, declared under
penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall
include the names of all utility service suppliers serving that service user. If
deemed exempt bv the Tax Administrator, such service user shall give the Tax
Administrator timely written notice of any change in utility service suppliers so
that the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new utility service supplier of
the service user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this
section shall not be entitled to a refund of utility users’ taxes collected and
remitted to the Tax Administrator from such service user as a result of such
noncompliance.

The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to section
4.62.200 of this chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and
appeal to the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to section 4.62.200 of this chapter
is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

4.62.051	4.62.050 Senior citizen exemption.

A.	The taxes imposed by this chapter shall not apply to any person who is the
head of a household and both:

1.	Is 62 years old or older; and

2.	Receives supplemental social security benefits.

B.	To qualify for the exemption set forth in this section, the person shall file an
application in the form, time and manner prescribed by the tax administrator Tax
Administrator.

C.	The tax administrator Tax Administrator shall, within 60 days of receipt of an
application for exemption, determine whether the exemption is granted, and if
so, notify the service supplier.

D.	The exemption granted to a person pursuant to this section shall become
effective on the beginning of the first regular billing period which commences
after the tax-administrator Tax Administrator has notified the service supplier
that an exemption has been granted.

4.62.060	Telephone user tax Communication user tax.

A. There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person other than a telephone

in the unincorporated
areas of the county County using communication services. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of five percent four and one-half percent (4.5%)
of the charges made for such services and shall be paid by the person paying for
such services collected from the service user by the communication services telephone account having a situs in-the unincorporated areas of the county,
irrespective of whether a particular telephone service originates and/or
terminates within the unincorporated areas of the county. There is a rebuttable
presumption that communication services, which are billed to a billing or service
address in the unincorporated areas of the County, are used, in whole or in part,
within the boundaries of the unincorporated areas, and such services are subject
to taxation under this chapter. If the billing address of the service user is
different from the service address, the service address of the service user shall be
used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this section, the term “charges”
shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or
nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the
communication services.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall not include charges for
services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones except that,
where such coin-operated service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the
amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic
charge shall be included in the base for computing the amount of tax due;
period in which the same or similar services or equipment are also available for
gale or lease from persons other than a service supplier subject to public utility
regulation; nor 3hall the words “telephone communication services” include land
mobile services or maritime mobile services defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47
of the Code of Federal Regulations as said section existed on January 1; -1970.
“Mobile telecommunications service” shall be sourced in accordance with the
sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act
(4 U.S.C. Section 1241. The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to
communication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this chapter, sourcing rules for the taxation of other
communication services, including but not limited to post-paid communication
services, prepaid communication services, and private communication services,
provided that such rules are based upon custom and common practice that
further administrative efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation
fe.g.. Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement").

C.	The tax imposed by this section 3hall be collected from the service user by the
person providing the telephone services, or the person receiving payment for
such services. The amount of the tax collected in one month shall be remitted to
the tax administrator on or before the last day of the following month, unless the
due date occurs on a weekend or a holiday, in which the due date is the first
business day following. Taxes shall be-deemed remitted on the date received by
the tax administrator, or on the date postmarked if remitted by first class United
States-mail with postage fully prepaid; With prior-written approval of-the tax
administrator, remittance of tax may be predicated-on a formula based upon the
payment pattern of the supplier’s customers; or--at the option of the person

measured by the tax bill—in the previous month. The Tax Administrator may
issue and disseminate to communication service suppliers, which are subject to
the tax collection requirements of this chapter, an administrative ruling
identifying those communication services, or charges therefor, that are subject to
or not subject to the tax of subsection fAl above-

exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed under-Section 4251 of the Internal


As used in this section, the term “telecommunication services” shall include, but
are not limited to charges for: connection, reconnection, termination, movement,
or change of telecommunication services: late payment fees: detailed billing:
central office and custom calling features)'including but not limited to call
waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling): voice mail
and other messaging services: directory assistance: access and line charges:
universal service charges: regulatory, administrative and other cost recovery
charges: local number portability charges: and text and instant messaging.
“Telecommunication services” shall not include: digital downloads that are not
“ancillary telecommunication services.” such as books, music, ringtones, games,
and similar digital products.

E.	To prevent actual multi-iurisdictional taxation of communication services
subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax
Administrator that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another
state or local jurisdiction on such communication services, shall be allowed a
credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally
imposed in such other state or local jurisdiction: provided, however, the amount
of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the County under this section.

F.	The tax on communication services imposed by this section shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one
111 month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by
the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th! day of the following
month.

4.62.070 Electricity user tax.

A. There is hereby imposed a tax on every person other than using 
electricity in the unincorporated areas of the county County. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of five percent four and one-half percent (4.5%)
of the charges made for such energy and shall be paid by the person paying for
such energy electricity, and for any supplemental services or other associated
activities directly related to and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the
service user, which are provided by a service supplier or non-utilitv service
supplier to a service user. The tax shall be collected from the service user bv the
service supplier or non-utilitv service supplier, or its billing agent. The tax
applicable to electrical energy provided by a non-utility supplier shall be
determined by applying the tax-rate to the equivalent charge the service user
would have incurred if the energy used had been provided by the electrical
corporation franchised by the eounty. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be

(Continued on next page)

N LA 015-039

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE U (Continued)

used in this section, shatHnelude charges made for metered energy and charges

from the premises upon which the energy was received- provided, however, that
the term shall include the receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in

irrigation; As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services,
components and items that are: if necessary for or common to the receipt, use or
eniovment of electric service: or. ii) currently are or historically have been
included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local distribution
company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, hut is
not limited to. the following charges:

1.	Energy charges:

2.	Distribution or transmission charges:

3.	Metering charges:

4.	Stand-by, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation.
emergency, or other similar charges for supplemental services to self-generation
service users:

(Continued on next page)

PR-900522-17

N LA 015-040

PROPOSEEHJRDiNANGE ©FMEASURE U (Continued)

5.	Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange
charges, independent system operator tISOt charges, stranded investment or
competitive transition charges (CTO. public purpose program charges, nuclear
decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts (bond financing charges!,
franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and other
charges, fees or surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use
or eniovment of electric service: and

6.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs which are
mandated bv the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear
on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by the
person supplying such energy. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be
remitted- to the tax administrator on or before the last day of-the following
month, unless-the due date occurs on a weekend-er a holiday, in which ease the
due date is fee- first business day following; Taxes shall be deemed remitted on
the date received by the tax administrator; or on the date postmarked, if remitted
by first class United States mail with postage fully prepaid. With prior written
approval of the tax administrator, remittance of tax may be predicated on a
formula based upon the payment pattern of the supplier’s customers. As used in
this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of anv other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided bv the
service user in exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision of
such electricity.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric service
suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of electric retail
service that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial
customers in the unincorporated areas of the County, and the charges therefor,
including those items that are mandated bv state or federal regulatory agencies
as a condition of providing such electric service. The Tax Administrator,
thereafter, mav issue and disseminate to such electric service suppliers an
administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are:
111 necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service:
or (2) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate
for electric service bv a local distribution company to a class of retail customers.
Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection
(A) above.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900522-18

N LA 015-041

EL As used in this section, the term “using electricity” shall not include the mere
receiving of such electricity bv an electrical corporation or governmental agency
at a point within the County for resale.

F.	The tax on electricity provided bv self-production or bv a non-utilitv service
supplier not under the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be collected and remitted
in the manner set forth in section 4.62.090 of this chapter. All other taxes on
charges for electricity imposed bv this section shall be collected from the service
user bv the electric service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax
collected in one tit month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must
be received bv the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20thi day of
the following month: or. at the option of the person required to collect and/or
remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured bv
the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service
user, which must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the
twentieth f20thi day of the following month, provided that such person shall
submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty
(W) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved bv the Tax
Administrator, may be applied against anv subsequent remittance that becomes
due.

4.62.090 4.62.080 Gas user tax.

A. There is hereby imposed a tax on every person other than a telephone

pipes using gas in the unincorporated areas of the Countv. which is transported
and delivered through a pipeline or pipeline distribution system or bv mobile
transport. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five percent four
and one-half percent 14.5%) of the charges made for such gas and shall be paid
by the person paying for such gas, including all services related to the storage,
transportation and delivery of such gas. The tax shall be collected from the
service user bv the service supplier or non-utilitv service supplier, or its billing
agent, and shall apply to all uses of gas, including but not limited to. heating
electricity generation, or the use of gas as a component of a manufactured
product.

PR-900522-19

N LA 015-042

(Continued on next page)

fTOP©SE&~efWf*0^^

has applied for and received from the tax administrator written confirmation that
the farmer’s operations arc commercial in nature and that gas is ased solely for

the purpose of pumping water for agricultural irrigation. As used in this section,
the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and items for gas
service that are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of pas
service: or. currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled
rate for gas service bv a local distribution company to a class of retail customers.
The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to. the following charges:

L The commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned by the
service user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting,
storage, gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with
the production and delivery of such gas), which is delivered through a eas
pipeline distribution system:

2. Gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not
included in commodity charges!:

PR-900522-20

N LA 015-043

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE U (Continued)

3.	Storage charges: provided, however, that the service supplier shall not be
required to apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the service
supplier cannot, as a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where such
stored gas is ultimately used: but it shall be the obligation of the service user to
self-collect the amount of tax not applied to anv charge for gas storage bv the
service supplier and to remit the tax to the appropriate jurisdiction:

4.	Capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, transition charges, customer charges, minimum charges.
annual and monthly charges, and anv other charges which are necessary for or
common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service: and.

5.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs which are mandated
bv the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a
bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by the

person selling the gas...The amount- of tax collected in-one month shall be

remitted to the tax administrator on or before the last day of the following
month, unless the due date occurs on a-weekend or a holiday, in whieh ease the
due date is the first business day following. Taxes shall be deemed remitted on
the-date received by the tax administrator;- or on the date postmarked, if remitted
byTirst class United States mail with postage fully prepaid.- With prior written

formula based upon the payment pattern of the supplier’s customers. As used in
this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of anv other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided bv the
service user in exchange for the gas or services related to the delivery of such gas.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas service
suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of gas retail
service that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial
customers in the unincorporated areas of the Countv. and the charges therefor,
including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies
as a condition of providing such gas service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter,
mav issue and disseminate to such gas service suppliers an administrative ruling
identifying those components and items which are: fli necessary for or common
to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service: or (2\ currently are or historically
have been included in a single or bundled rate for gas service bv a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components
and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (A) above.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 015-044

P R ©POSH^Ofi DI NANCE OF MEAStJNRfc^^

E.	There shall be excluded from the calculation of the tax imposed in this
section, charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a
pipeline distribution system.

F.	The tax on gas provided bv self-production or bv a non-utilitv service supplier
not under the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be collected and remitted in the
manner set forth in section 4.62.090 of this chapter. All other taxes on charges
for gas imposed bv this section shall be collected from the service user bv the gas
service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one ('ll month
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received bv the Tax
Administrator, on or before the twentieth f20th) day of the following month: or.
at the option of the person required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person
shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured bv the tax billed in the previous
month or upon the payment pattern of the service user, which must be received
bv the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted payment or request
for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60^ davs following each calendar quarter.
The credit, if approved bv the Tax Administrator, mav be applied against any
subsequent remittance that becomes due.

4.62.090	Collection of tax from service users receiving direct purchase of gas or
electricity.

A.	Anv service user subject to the tax imposed bv section 4.62.070 or bv section

4.62.080	of this chapter, which produces gas or electricity for self-use: which
receives gas or electricity, including anv related supplemental services, directly
from a non-utilitv service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this chapter: or
which, for anv other reason, is not having the full tax collected and remitted bv its
service supplier, a non-utilitv service supplier, or its billing agent on the use of
gas or electricity in the unincorporated areas of the County, including anv related
supplemental services, shall report said fact to the Tax Administrator and shall
remit the tax due directly to the Tax Administrator within thirty (304 davs of such
use, based on the charges for, or value of. such gas or electricity, or supplemental
services, as provided in subsection (BV In lieu of paving said actual tax, the
service user mav. at its option, remit to the Tax Administrator within thirty 1301
davs of such use, an estimated amount of tax measured bv the tax billed in the
previous month, or upon the payment pattern of similar customers of the service
supplier usinp: similar amounts of gas or electricity, provided that the service user
shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within
sixty 1601 davs following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved bv the
Tax Administrator in writing, mav be applied against anv subsequent tax bill that
becomes due.

(Continued on next page)

N LA01S-045

JL The Tax Administrator mav require said service user to identify its
non-utility service supplier and otherwise provide the following (subject to
audit ): invoices: books of account: or other satisfactory evidence documenting
the quantity of gas or electricity used, including any related supplemental
services, and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is unable to provide
such satisfactory evidence, or if the administrative cost of calculating the tax in
the opinion of the Tax Administrator is excessive, the Tax Administrator mav
determine the tax bv applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service
user would have incurred if the gas or electricity used, including any related
supplemental services, had been provided bv the service supplier that is the
primary supplier of gas or electricity within the Countv. Rate schedules for this
purpose shall be available from the Countv.

4.62.1Q0 Bundling taxable items with non-taxable items.

If anv nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from
taxable service charges on the service user bill or invoice of a service supplier, the
combined charge is subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies, bv
reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of the combined charge that are
nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier’s books and records kept in
the regular course of business, and in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The
service supplier has the burden of proving the proper apportionment of taxable
and non-taxable charges. If the service supplier offers a combination of taxable
and non-taxable services, and the charges are separately stated, then for taxation
purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall be based
on its books and records kept in the regular course of business and in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained
for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
valuation of the taxable and non-taxable services.

4.62.110	Substantial nexus / minimum contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax
under this chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the
utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted bv state and federal law, and as it
mav change from time to time bv judicial interpretation or bv statutory
enactment.

PR-900522-23

N LA 015-046

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDtNANeE 0F MEASURE U (Continued)

Anv communication service (including VoIP) used bv a person with a service
address in the unincorporated areas of the County, which service is capable of
terminating a call to another person on the general telephone network, shall be
subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts”
exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a
tax, under this chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient
activity in the unincorporated areas of the Countv for tax collection and
remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to. anv of the
following: maintains or has within the unincorporated areas of the Countv.
directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of business of anv nature:
solicits business in the unincorporated areas of the Countv bv employees,
independent contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives: solicits
business in the unincorporated areas of the County on a continuous, regular,
seasonal or systematic basis bv means of advertising that is broadcast or relaved
from a transmitter within the unincorporated areas of the County or distributed
from a location within the unincorporated areas of the Countv: or advertises in
newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the unincorporated
areas of the County or through materials distributed in the unincorporated areas
of the Countv by means other than the United States mail or if there are
activities performed in the unincorporated areas of the Countv on behalf of the
service supplier that are significantly associated with the service supplier’s ability
to establish and maintain a market in the unincorporated areas of the Countv for
the provision of services that are subject to a tax under this chapter.

4.62.159 4.62.120 Duty to collect-procedures.

A.	Collection bv Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect and
remit the taxes imposed by this chapter shall be performed as follows:

At 1. The tax shall be collected bv service suppliers insofar as practicable at the
same time as, and along with, the collection of charges made in accordance with
the regular billing practices of the service supplier. Exccptin those cases where a
service-user pays-the full amount of said charges but does not pay-any portion of
a tax imposed by this chapter, or where a service user has notified a service
supplier that he is refusing to pay a tax imposed by this chapter which said service
supplier is required to collect, if the amount paid by a service user is less than the
full amount of the charge and the tax which has accrued for the billing period,
such amount and any subsequent payments by a service user shall be applied to

PR-900522-24

N LA 015-047

(Continued on next page)

Where the amount paid bv a service user to a service supplier is less than the full
amount of the charge and tax which was accrued for the billing period, a
proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been
paid. In those cases where a service user has notified the service supplier of
refusal to pay the tax imposed on said charges, section 4.62.160 shall apply.

Bt 2. The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the
service user where all charges normally included in such regular billing are
subject to the provisions of this chapter. Where a person service user receives
more than one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the
duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

Ei Filing Return and Payment. Each person required bv this chapter to remit a
tax shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved bv the Tax
Administrator, on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected
shall be included with the return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator is authorized to require such additional information as he or she
deems necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in
accordance with this chapter. Returns are due immediately upon cessation of
business for anv reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code section 7284.6. the
Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as
confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the
Public Records Act. Government Code section 6250. et seq.

4.62.130	Interest and penalty Collection penalties - service suppliers.

A. Taxes collected bv a service supplier from a service user which are not
remitted to the tax administrator on or before the due dates provided in this
chapter are delinquent and arc subject to penalties and interest are delinquent if
not received bv the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due
date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received bv the Tax
Administrator on the first regular working dav following the weekend or legal
holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other similar
methods of electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts, made
bv a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection shall
be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the
transfer settles into the County’s account on the following business day.

PR-900522-25

N LA 015-048

(Continued on next page)

^ PROPGSEB0RD1NANCE OF MEASURE U (Continued)	-

B.	Any person who fails to remit taxes cotteeted in the-time required by this
chapter shall pay a penalty of five percent of the amount of the tax, and if not
remitted within two working days after the date of delinquency-, shall pay a total
penalty of 20 percent of the amount of tax owed. Such penalty shall attach to the
amount of tax due and shall be paid by the person required to eollcct and remit
the taxr If the person required to collect and/or remit the utility users’ tax fails to
collect the tax fbv failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or
charges on the customer’s billing! or fails to remit the tax collected on or before
the due date, the Tax Administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies
or deficiencies at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is
delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and shall pav interest at the rate of one
and one-half (1.5%) percent per month, or anv fraction thereof, on the amount
of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first
became delinquent, until paid.

C.	When fraud or~gros3 ncgligcnee in reporting and-remitting -tax collections is
discovered; the tax administrator shall have power to impose additional penalties
of 20 percent of taxes owed upon persons required-to collect and remit taxes
under the provisions of this chapter; The Tax Administrator shall have the power
to impose additional penalties upon persons required to collect and remit taxes
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter chapter for fraud or gross negligence
in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the amount of
the tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax
Administrator.

D.	Any person required to remit to the tax administrator delinquent taxes as
required in this section, shall pay interest at the rate of one and-onc-half percent
(1.5%) per month, or portion thereof, on the amount of tax -owed exclusive of
penalties; -from the date on which the tax first became delinquent until-paid. For
collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is accrued
under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required
to be paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the provisions of-subsections B and D, no penalty or interest
shall be applied if delinquencies - arc the result of natural disasters or other
phenomena beyond the control of the person charged with collecting and
remitting the tax, provided the person being delinquent notifies the tax
administrator as soon as normal communications permit. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her discretion, modify the due
dates of this chapter to be consistent with anv uniform standards or procedures
that are mutually agreed upon bv other public agencies imposing a utility users
tax, or otherwise legally established, to create a central payment location or
mechanism.

N LA 015-049

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSE&0RDfNANGE^F MEASURE U (Continued)

4.62.140 Actions to collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the county Countv. Any such
tax collected from a service user which has not been remitted to the tax
administrator the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the county
Countv by the person required to collect and remit the tax and shall no longer be
a debt of the service user. Any person owing money to the county Countv under
the provisions of this chapter shall be liable in an action brought in the name of
the county County for the recovery of such amount, including penalties and
interest as provided for in this chapter, along with anv collection costs incurred
by the Countv as a result of the person’s noncompliance with this chapter-
including. but not limited to. reasonable attorneys fees. Any tax required to be
collected bv a service supplier or owed bv a service user is an unsecured priority
excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8¥C).

4.62.150

assessment - tax application errors.

Deficiency determination and

A.	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she
determines that anv service supplier or service user required to pav. collect,
and/or remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this chapter has failed to pav.
collect, and/or remit the proper amount of tax bv improperly or failing to apply
the tax to one or more taxable services or charges. Nothing herein shall require
that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this section 4.62.150 if. in
the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely
outweighs the tax benefit.

B.	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to
the person or entity allegedly owing the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the
amount of the taxes owed, the collection penalties imposed pursuant to section
4.62.130. plus interest at the rate of one and one-half (1.5%) percent per month,
or anv fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax
should have been received bv the Countv. Within fourteen 1141 calendar days
after the date of service of such notice, the person or entity allegedly owing the
tax mav request in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the matter.

C.	If the person or entity allegedly owing the tax fails to request a hearing within
the prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall
become a final assessment, and shall immediately be due and owing to the
Countv.

PR-900522-27

N LA 015-050

(Continued on next page)

If the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to
be set for hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt
of the written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be mailed bv the Tax Administrator to such person or entity at least ten
(10) calendar davs prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires said
person or entity to produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may
designate the records requested to be produced.

D.	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all
relevant testimony and evidence, including that of anv other interested parties.
At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing mav be continued from
time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of additional evidence.
Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the hearing, the Tax
Administrator shall issue a final assessment for non-assessment), thereafter, bv
confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and
shall mail a copy of such final assessment to person or entity owing the tax. The
decision of the Tax Administrator mav be appealed pursuant to section 4.62.200
of this chapter.

E.	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received bv
the Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth 130thi dav following the date of
receipt of the notice of final assessment. As provided in section 4.62.130. the
penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on the total amount of the
assessment, along with interest at the rate of one and one-half (f.5%) percent
per month, or anv fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of
limitations regarding a claim bv the Countv seeking payment of a tax assessed
under this chapter shall commence from the date of delinquency as provided in
this subsection IE).

F.	All notices under this section mav be sent bv regular mail, postage prepaid,
and shall be deemed received on the third calendar dav following the date of
mailing, as established bv a proof of mailing.

4.62.170—Assessment———Administrative—remedy 4.62.160 Administrative
remedy - non-paving service users.

A.	The tax administrator may assess the service user for taxes not paid to the
service supplier.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900522-28

N LA 015-051

Br-Whenever the tax administrator Tax Administrator determines that a service
user has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by such users the
service user from the amounts remitted the service user remits to a person

tax to such persoRror whenever the tax administrator Tax Administrator deems
it in the best interest of the county Countv. he or she mav relieve such person of
the obligation to collect ihe taxes due under this chapter from certain named
service users for specified billing periods. To the extent the service user has
failed to pav the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing
periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes
due. The service supplier shall provide the Countv with the names and addresses
of such service users, the amounts of taxes owed, and the associated billing
periods, under the provisions of this chapter. Nothing herein shall require that
the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this section if. in the opinion
of the Tax. Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs
the tax benefit.

EL In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pav a delinquency penalty at
the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pav
interest at the rate of one and one-half (1.5%) percent per month, or anv
fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the due
date, until paid.

C.	The...service supplier shall provide the county with amounts refused, along

with the names, addresses and reasons of the service users refusing to pay the tax
imposed under provisions of this chapter. Whcnever-the service user has failed to
pay the amount of-tax- for a period of two or more billing periods, the tax
administrator may relieve the service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes
due: The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paving service user that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the
stated periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and
interest. The notice shall be served on the service user by personal delivery or bv
deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
service user at the address to which billing was made bv the person required to
collect the tax: or. should the service user have a change of address, to his or her
last known address.

D.	The tax administrator shall notify the service user that he has assumed
responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment
of such taxes.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900522-29

N LA 015-052

addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made by the
 
addfessrto his last known address. If a service user fails to remit the tax to the lax
 
which shall be the date of mailing if service is net accomplished in person, a

Administrator within thirty f'30') davs from the date of the service of the notice
upon him or her, the Tax Administrator mav impose an additional penalty of
fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the total tax that is owed, along with the
interest at the rate of one and one-haif (1.5%) per month, or anv fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have
been received bv the Countv.

4.62.160 4.62.170 Additional powers and duties of tax administrator Tax
Administrator.

A. The tax administrator Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and

administrative rules and regulations not inconsistent consistent with provisions of
this chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and enforcing
the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of
such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the tax
administrator’s Tax Administrator’s office. To the extent that the Tax
Administrator determines that the tax imposed under this chapter shall not be
collected in full for anv period of time from anv particular service supplier or
service user, that determination shall be considered an exercise of the Tax
Administrator’s discretion to settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in
taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750. nor is such
determination a waiver of the County’s ability to impose the tax in full. The Tax
Administrator is not authorized to amend the taxing methodology for purposes
of Government Code Section 53750.

1, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this chapter.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 015-053

C.	The tax administrator Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax
Administrator may make administrative agreements, with appropriate
conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of this chapter so that collection

conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so long as said
agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance with the general
purpose and scope of this chapter: or (2) to avoid a hardship where the
administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit.
A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the tax administrator’s office
Tax Administrator’s office and are voidable bv the Tax Administrator or the
Countv at anv time.

D.	The Tax Administrator mav conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance
with the requirements of this chapter, of anv person required to collect and/or
remit a tax pursuant to this chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said
person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other
intentional misconduct, the audit period of review shall not exceed a period of
three 131 years next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by said
person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax
Administrator mav make a deficiency determination pursuant to section 4.62.150
of this chapter for all taxes land applicable penalties and interest! owed and not
paid, as evidenced bv information provided bv such person to the Tax
Administrator. If said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records
to enable the Tax Administrator to verify compliance with this chapter, the Tax
Administrator is authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency.
Said reasonable estimate shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of
correctness.

E.	Upon receipt of a written request of a service supplier, and for good cause,
the Tax Administrator mav extend the time for filing anv statement required
pursuant to this chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (451 davs.
provided that the time for filing the required statement has not already passed
when the request is received. No penalty for delinquent payment shall accrue bv
reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at the rate of
one and one-half (1,5%) percent per month, prorated for anv portion thereof.

£>R The tax administrator Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of
any person who asserts a right to exemption from, or a refund of. the tax imposed
by this chapter.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900522-31

N LA 015-054

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURED U (Continued)

G.	Notwithstanding anv provision in this chapter to the contrary, the Tax
Administrator mav waive anv penalty or interest imposed upon a person required
to collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed bv this chapter if the
non-collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether the non-collection
was in good faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into consideration industry
practice or other precedence.

4.62.180 Records.

A.	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to the eounty
Countv any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at
least three £2} years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of
such tax as he may have been liable for the collection of and remittance to the tax
administrator Tax Administrator, which records the tax administrator Tax
Administrator shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

B.	The Countv. through the Board of Supervisors, may issue an administrative
subpoena to compel a person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all
records deemed necessary bv the Tax Administrator to establish compliance with
this chapter, including the delivery of records in a common electronic format on
readily available media if such records are kept electronically bv the person in
the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the
subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the due date
provided in the administrative subpoena, such person mav provide access to such
records outside the Countv on or before the due date, provided that such person
shall reimburse the Countv for all reasonable travel expenses incurred bv the
Countv to inspect those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other
similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those
persons designated bv the County to conduct the inspection.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900522-32

N LA 015-055

FROPOSED ORDfNANCE QF MEASURE U {Continued)

C The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement
approved bv the County Counsel to protect the confidentiality of customer
information pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.

D. If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: ('ll provide to the Tax
Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent
and billing aggregator currently authorized bv the service supplier to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax to the Countv: and. (2) upon request of the Tax
Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of. anv information or records in the
possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the
Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the Countv.

Ei If anv person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably
denies the Tax Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the
information requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified,
then the Tax Administrator mav impose a penalty of $500 on such person for
each dav following: 11 the initial date that the person refuses to provide such
access: or. 21 the due date for production of records as set forth in the
administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to anv other penalty
imposed under this chapter.

4.62.190 ftefttndsr-Refund claims.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax administrator
under this chapter the Tax Administrator under this chapter from a service user
or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this section. However, if
the appeals procedure set forth in section 4.62.200 is applicable, that procedure
must first be exhausted before a refund may be had under this section.

B. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, a service
supplier may, with prior written approval from the tax administrator, claim a
refund or take a3 credit against taxes collected and remitted the amount
overpaid; The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid.
paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is
established that the service user from whom the tax has been collected did not

N LA 015-056

(Continued on next page)

by the Tax Administrator under this chapter from a service user or service
supplier, provided

required to collect and remit. A scfvtec supplier that has collected- any amount of

such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than three years from the date of

G,- No that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the

thereto or his or her guardian, executor, or administrator has submitted a written
claim to the Tax Administrator within one year of the overpayment or erroneous
or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant’s right
to the refund bv written records showing entitled thereto. Nothing herein shall
permit the filing of a claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each
member of the class has submitted a written claim under penalty of periurv as
provided in this subsection.

B. The Tax Administrator, where the claim is less than the settlement authority
established in title 2.14.020 of the Countv Code, or the Board of Supervisors
where the claim is in excess of that amount, shall act upon the refund claim
within fortv-five (45f days of the initial receipt of the refund claim. Said decision
shall he final. If the Tax Administrator/Board of Supervisors fails or refuses to
act on a refund claim within the fortv-five (45f dav period, the claim shall be
deemed to have been rejected bv the Tax Administrator/Board of Supervisors on
the forty-fifth f45th~) day. The Tax Administrator shall give notice of the action in
a form which substantially complies with that set forth in Government Code
Section 913.

C.	The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government Code Section 935 is a
prerequisite to anv suit thereon. Anv action brought against the Countv pursuant
to this section shall be subject to the provisions of Government Code Sections
945.6 and 946.

PR-900522-34

N LA 015-057

(Continued on next page)

pursuant to art ordert>f the-Califomia Public Utilities Commission or a court of
competent jurisdiction, makes a refund-to- service users of charges for past utility
services;’the taxes paid pursuant to this ehaptcr on the amount of such refunded
ehargesshall also be refunded to service users, and the 3crviee-supplicr may, with
prior written approval of the tax administrator, take a credit for such refunded
taxes against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly returns. In
the event this chapter is repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will be
borne by the county. Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (At of
this section, the Tax Administrator mav. at his or her discretion, give written
permission to a service supplier, who has collected and remitted anv amount of
tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed bv this chapter, to claim credit for
such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due the Countv upon a
subsequent monthly returntst to the Tax Administrator, provided that: it such
credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from the date of

overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax: n't the Tax Administrator is
satisfied that the underlying basis and amount of such credit has been reasonably
established: and, in') in the case of an overpayment bv a service user to the
service supplier that has been remitted to the County, the Tax Administrator has
received proof, to his or her satisfaction, that the overpayment has been
refunded bv the service supplier to the service user in an amount equal to the
requested credit.

Ei Notwithstanding subsections (A) through (Pi above, a service supplier shall
be entitled to take anv overpayment as a credit against an underpayment
whenever such overpayment has been received bv the Countv within the
three f3i years next preceding a deficiency determination or assessment bv the
Tax Administrator in connection with an audit instituted bv the Tax
Administrator pursuant to section 4.62.170. A service supplier shall not be
entitled to said credit unless it first clearly establishes to the Tax Administrator
the right to the credit bv written records showing entitlement thereto. Under no
circumstances shall an overpayment taken as a credit against an underpayment
pursuant to this subsection qualify a service supplier for a refund to which it
would not otherwise be entitled under the one-vear written claim requirement of
this section.

4.62.200 Delays in implementation Appeals.

A. Each serviee supplier shall immediately implement collection procedures in
accordance with the effective dates contained in this chapter.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900522-35

N LA 015-058

has been granted an extension in the toe to implement tax collection
procedures, taxes accrued for-the period of time prior to implementation shall be

the tax administrator pursuant to subsection E.

not presently franchised hv the county to provide for reimbursement, within the

effective to the time the serviee-supplier implements tax collection procedures in

part of the previously accrued tax is included in all customer billings issued after
April 30,1991 but on or before May 31,1991; or $100,000.00 if ail or a part of the
previously accrued tax is included in all customer billings issued after May 31,

1991, hut on or before June 30,1991.

E. In—any—agreement—entered—into—pursuant—to—subsection—D;—the—tax
administrator may authorize the service supplier to eollcet previously -accrued
taxes over a period of two or more months, provided that all such taxes arc
collccted-and remitted to the tax administrator no later than November 39,1991:

A. Anv person directly aggrieved bv a decision of the Tax Administrator shall be
required to comply with the appeals procedure set forth in this section. A
“decision” of the Tax Administrator includes anv decision, determination-
assessment. or administrative ruling made pursuant to this chapter. This section
does not apply to a decision relating to a refund pursuant to section 4.62.190.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900522-36

N LA 015-059

B.	The chief executive officer, or his or her designee shall hear all appeals filed
pursuant to this section. A written notice of appeal shall be filed with the clerk of
the board of supervisors, or his or her designee, within fourteen (14) days of the
decision so appealed.

C Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the clerk of the board, or his or her
desienee. shall schedule a hearing before a hearing officer selected by the chief
executive officer, or his or her designee, within thirty t30t days from the receipt
of the appeal. The appealing party shall be served with written notice of the time
and place of the hearing at least five (5 ) calendar davs prior to the hearing. The
hearing mav be continued from time to time upon mutual consent of the parties
and the hearing officer.

D,	Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall consider any
relevant evidence presented at the hearing and shall issue a written
determination upholding, modifying or reversing the decision from which the
appeal is taken. The hearing officer’s determination shall be given within thirty
f30t davs after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the
determination. The hearing officer’s determination shall specify that the
determination is final and conclusive. Any petition for judicial review shall be
filed within ninety 1901 davs from the date of service of the hearing officer’s
determination.

4.62.210 Severability.

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or
unenforceable bv a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portion of this chapter or any part thereof
shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The Board of Supervisors of the
County of Los Angeles hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.

4.62.220 Termination or suspension of utility user tax Notice of changes to
ordinance.

The-service supplier shall, upon notification, terminate or suspend any utility
user tax commencing with the first full billing period which occurs after the
effective day of such action by the board of supervisors.

PR-900522-37

N LA 015-060

(Continued on next page)

If a tax under this chapter is added, repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base
is changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of Public
Utilities Code Section 799.

4.62.230 Effect of state and federal reference/authorization.

A. Unless specifically provided otherwise, anv reference to a state or federal
statute in this chapter means such statute as it mav be amended from time to
time, provided that such reference to a statute shall not include anv subsequent
amendment thereto, or to anv subsequent change of interpretation thereto bv a
state or federal agency or court of law with the duty to interpret such law, to the
extent that such amendment or change of interpretation would require voter
approval under California law, or to the extent that such change would result in a
tax decrease, as a result of excluding all or a part of a utility service, or charge
therefor, from taxation. Only to the extent that voter approval would otherwise
be required or a tax decrease would result, the prior version of the statute or its
interpretation, shall remain applicable, for anv application or situation that
would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of
the amended statute or new interpretation thereof shall be applicable to the
maximum possible extent.

EL To the extent that the County’s authorization to collect or impose anv tax
under this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal
law, no amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to conform
the tax to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full
extent of the authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this
chapter.

4.62.240 Independent audit of tax collection, exemption, remittance, and
expenditure.

The County shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this chapter have
been properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this
chapter, and properly expended according to applicable municipal law. The
annual verification shall be performed bv a qualified independent third party and
the review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance,
including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be required of tax
remitters where the cost of the verification mav exceed the tax revenues to be
reviewed.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900522-38

N LA 015-061

All remedies and penalties prescribed bv this chapter or which are available
under any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the
California False Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.t and the
California Unfair Practices Act (Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et
seq.V are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies bv the Countv shall not
bar the use of anv other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter.

4.62.260 Interaction with prior tax.

Ai Collection of Tax bv Service Providers. Service providers shall begin to collect
the tax imposed bv this amended Chapter 4.62 as soon as feasible after the
effective date of the chapter, but in no event later than permitted bv Section 799

of the Public Utilities Code.

B.	Satisfaction of Tax Obligation bv Service Users. Prior to April 1. 2009. anv
person who pavs the tax levied pursuant to Chapter 4.62 of this Code, as it
existed prior to its amendment as provided herein, with respect to anv charge for
a service shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pav the tax
levied pursuant to chapter 4.62 as amended herein, with respect to that charee.
The intent of this paragraph is to prevent the imposition of multiple taxes upon a
single utility charge during the transition period from the prior Utility User Tax
ordinance to the amended Utility User Tax ordinance (which transition period
ends April 1. 20091 and to permit service providers or other persons with an
obligation to remit the tax hereunder, during that transition period, to satisfy
their collection obligations bv collecting either tax.

C.	In the event that a final court order should determine that the election
enacting this Chapter 4.62 fas amended herein! is invalid for whatever reason, or
that anv tax imposed under this Chapter 4.62 fas amended herein 1 is invalid in
whole or in part, then the taxes imposed under Chapter 4.62 of this Code, as it
existed prior to its amendment as provided herein, shall automatically continue
to apply with respect to anv service for which the tax levied pursuant to this
chapter has been determined to be invalid. Such automatic continuation shall be
effective beginning as of the first date of service for billing da tel for which the
tax imposed bv this chapter is not valid.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900522-39

N LA 015-062

However, in the event of an invalidation, anv tax fother than a tax that is ordered
refunded by the court or is otherwise refunded bv the Countv’) paid bv a person
with respect to a service and calculated pursuant to this Chapter 4.62 (as
amended herein) shall be deemed to satisfy the tax imposed under Chapter 4.62,
as it existed prior to its amendment as provided herein, on that service, so long as
the tax is paid with respect to a service provided no later than six months
subsequent to the date on which the final court order is published.

SECTION 2. Effective Date. The amendments to this chapter shall become
effective immediately upon the date of approval of this Ordinance by the people
of the unincorporated areas of the County of Los Angeles at the Election of
November 4, 2008.

SECTION 3. Validation of Prior Tax. The people of the unincorporated areas of
the County of Los Angeles hereby validate and approve the past collection of the
Utility User Tax under Chapter 4.62 of the County Code as it existed prior to the
effective date of this Ordinance.

SECTION 4. Amendment or Repeal. Chapter 4.62 of the County Code may be
repealed or amended by the Board of Supervisors without a vote of the people.
However, as required by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter
approval is required for any amendment provision that would increase the rate of
any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance. By approving this Ordinance, the
people of the unincorporated areas of the County of Los Angeles affirm that the
following actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

1.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set
by this Ordinance, if the Board of Supervisors has acted to reduce the rate of the

tax;

2.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any
definition applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if
contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the
language of this Ordinance.

3.	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or excepted from the tax
or the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the
discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
Ordinance); and

4.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the County had,
for some period of time, failed to collect the tax.

PR-900522-40

N LA 015-063

(Continued on next page)

PBOPOSEDORDINANCE OF MEASURE U {Continued)_____________

SECTION 5. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by
a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall
nonetheless remain in full force and effect. By approving this Ordinance, the
people declare that they would have adopted each section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one
or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this
Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 6. Execution. The Chair of the Board of Supervisors is authorized to
attest to the adoption of this Ordinance by the voters of the unincorporated
areas of the County at the Election of November 4, 2008, by signing a
certification as provided below:

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and
ADOPTED by the people of the unincorporated areas of the County of Los
Angeles voting on the 4th day of November, 2008. <fullend>
