LIVERMORE VALLEY JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT QUALITY EDUCATION ACT
MEASURE M

MEASURE M: To maintain the YES

quality of local schools, attract -----------

and retain highly qualified teach- no

ers, and maintain small class sizes, col- -----------

lege/career/job preparation classes, art/music/foreign
language programs, computers, infrastructure and
instructional technology upgrades, elementary science
specialists, and high school counselors, shall Liver-
more Valley Joint Unified School District extend its
expiring parcel tax for five years at $11.50/month per
parcel, with a senior citizen exemption, independent
oversight, no administrators’ salaries, and all funds
staying local to benefit Livermore children?

the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collect-
ed. Upon application to the District, an exemption may be
granted to a parcel owner 65 years or older who occupies
the parcel as his or her principal residence. Real property
otherwise exempt from taxation under California laws is
also exempt from the special tax.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this
measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail,
and the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District
will not be authorized to levy the special tax for a term of
five years beginning July 1, 2010.
s/RICHARD E. WINNIE
County Counsel

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE M

ANALYSIS BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY COUNSEL
OF A LIVERMORE VALLEY JOINT UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALIFIED SPECIAL
PARCEL TAX MEASURE M
Measure M, a Livermore Valley Joint Unified School
District (“District”) qualified special parcel tax measure,
seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy a
five-year qualified special parcel tax in the amount of
$11.50 per month ($138 per year) on each parcel of tax-
able real property beginning July 1, 2010, to fund the pro-
grams set forth in the measure.

A school district has the authority to levy qualified spe-
cial taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on
the special tax proposal pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4 of Article XIIIA and Section 2 of Article XIII C of
the California Constitution and sections 50075-50077,
50079, and 53722 of the California Government Code.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this
measure vote for approval, the allocation of the funding
revenue is to be used for the specific purposes set forth in
the full text of the measure printed in this sample ballot,
including teacher recruitment, maintaining small class
sizes, providing programs in such areas as college/
career/job preparation and classes in art, music and for-
eign languages, and upgrading infrastructure and instruc-
tional technology. The measure further provides that the
monies collected shall be accounted for separately and
shall be expended only for those specified purposes. A cit-
izens’ oversight committee will conduct an annual, inde-
pendent performance audit to ensure that the special tax
monies are spent for their authorized purposes.

If the measure passes, a qualified special parcel tax will
be imposed in the amount of $11.50 per month ($138 per
year) on each parcel of taxable real property beginning
July 1, 2010 and continuing until June 30, 2015. The tax
will be collected by the Alameda County and Contra Costa
County Treasurer-Tax Collectors at the same time and in

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M	NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M WAS

Livermore has a tradition of supporting its local schools. SUBMITTED.

Exceptional teachers, challenging programs, small class
sizes, dedicated parents and support from our community
have all contributed to continuously improving student
achievement and test scores over the past 8 years.

In 2004, over 71% of local voters approved a school parcel
tax measure that today provides much needed local fund-
ing for retaining quality teachers, maintaining small class
sizes, and supporting important educational programs.

This stable source of funding has helped achieve excel-
lence in our neighborhood schools despite unpredictable
and inadequate state funding. Without approval of Mea-
sure M, this funding will expire in 2009-2010.

Measure M extends the current parcel tax for 5 years and
increases it by $1.50 a month ($18 per year) to adjust for
inflation. Measure M MAINTAINS current programs; it
does not establish new ones.

Specifically, Measure M will authorize funding to continue
to:

•	Attract and retain quality teachers.

•	Maintain small classes

•	Provide college and job/career preparation classes

•	Maintain middle school art/music/foreign language
programs

•	Provide computers, infrastructure and instructional
technology upgrades

•	Continue elementary science programs

•	Maintain high school counselors

Legally, Measure M funds must be spent locally to benefit
Livermore children. NONE of the money can be used for
administrators’ salaries.

Each year an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee
has reviewed parcel tax expenditures and reported these
funds have been used as promised. If Measure M passes,
this Citizens’ Oversight Committee will continue to moni-
tor expenditures to ensure they are spent properly.

Good schools are the foundation of a quality community.

Good schools protect property values and contribute to our
high quality of life.

Parents, teachers, and citizens throughout our community
urge a YES VOTE on Measure M to protect quality educa-
tion in Livermore.

Please VOTE YES on Measure M.
s/Dawn Whalen
Parent/Education Advocate
s/John Mahoney
Businessman/Past Chair, Livermore Chamber of
Commerce
s/Philomena Rambo
Granada High School Vice Principal
s/Bruce Wolfe
Retired Mendenhall Middle School Science Teacher
s/John Shirley
Former Mayor, 54 year Livermore resident

LJSM-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE M

Exhibit A

This proposition may be known and referred to as the Liv-
ermore Valley Joint Unified School District Quality Edu-
cation Act or as Measure M.

Findings

The Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District (the
District) which serves the City of Livermore and portions
of unincorporated territory in Alameda and Contra Costa
County, is a recognized leader in providing top quality
education to Alameda and Contra Costa County students
for many decades. The District has received recognition as
one of the top one hundred school districts in the nation
and twelve of the District’s twenty schools have been rec-
ognized as California distinguished schools.

The achievements are the result of a long history of dedi-
cation to quality education from the Board of Education,
from staff members, parents and members of the District
communities. The District and its students have benefited
from a community that supports its educational institu-
tions by establishing high standards while at the same time
providing the financial means required to exceed expecta-
tions.

The District is dependant on the State for the major-
ity of its funding. The ongoing State budget crisis
threatens the stability of funds available to maintain
the quality of local schools, attract and retain high-
ly qualified teachers, and maintain small class sizes,
college/career/job preparation classes, art/music/
foreign language programs, computers, infrastruc-
ture and instructional technology upgrades, ele-
mentary science specialists, and high school coun-
selors. In order to provide our students with local
funding that cannot be taken away by the State so
that we can maintain quality education and avoid
further reductions in essential programs it is neces-
sary to seek voter approval of a qualified special tax
to provide stable local funding on a temporary basis
in order to maintain quality education and avoid
further reductions in essential programs pending
future resolution of the ongoing State budget crisis.
Terms and Purpose

Upon approval of two thirds of those voting on this Mea-
sure, the District will be authorized to levy a qualified spe-
cial tax of $11.50 dollars per month on each parcel of tax-
able real property in the District for no more than five
years, commencing on July 1, 2010. This special tax,
known as and referred to as the Quality Education Act
shall provide funds which shall be used to maintain the
quality of local schools, attract and retain highly qualified
teachers, and maintain small class sizes, college/career/job
preparation classes, art/music/foreign language programs,
computers, infrastructure and instructional technology
upgrades, elementary science specialists, and high school
counselors during the current State budget crisis,
a. Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this
Measure constitute the specific purposes of the special tax
and all proceeds shall be expended only for such purposes.

b.	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be
granted for any parcel owned and occupied as a principal
residence by a person 65 years of age or older upon appli-
cation to the District. This exemption shall be available
pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the Livermore
Valley Joint Unified School District Board of Trustees or
otherwise as required by law or by the Alameda County
and Contra Costa County tax collector. At a minimum,
these procedures will provide that once an exemption is
granted, the owner of the real property who qualifies for
the exemption does not have to apply each year to renew
the exemption but rather, must timely notify the District
during the five (5) year period the parcel tax is in effect of
any change in circumstances which no longer qualifies the
owner/real property for the exemption.

c.	No Administrator Salaries. Proceeds from the qualified
special tax authorized by this measure shall be used only
for the purposes described above and shall not be used for
Administrator or Management salaries.

Special Tax Levy and Collection
The Quality Education Act tax shall be collected by the
Alameda County and Contra Costa County treasurer-tax
collector at the same time and manner and shall be subject
to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collect-
ed by the treasurer-tax collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear
interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property taxes until paid. The collection of the tax shall
not decrease the funds available from other sources of the
District in any period from the effective date hereof.
Taxable real property shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District which receives a separate tax bill
for ad valorem property taxes from the appropriate Coun-
ty treasurer-tax collector’s office. All property which is
otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad val-
orem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from
the tax in that year. Parcels owned and occupied by per-
sons 65 years of age or older are eligible for an exemption
from the special taxes described above.

Each year the District shall provide the appropriate Coun-
ty tax collection officials of a list of parcels which the Dis-
trict has approved for senior citizen exemption. The Coun-
ty tax collection official’s determination of exemption or
relief for any reason other than the senior exemption of
any parcel from taxation shall be final and binding for the
purposes of this tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the
County Assessor’s determination must do so under the
procedures for correcting a misclassification of property
pursuant to section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code where there are applicable procedures.
Taxpayers seeking a refund of special tax paid shall follow
procedures set forth in the California Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code.

Accountability Requirements

The provisions in this section are specifically included in
this measure in order that the voters and taxpayers in the
District may be assured that their money will be spent wise-
ly to address the needs of the District and its students as set
forth herein, all in compliance with the requirements of
Article XIIIA Section 4 of the California State Constitution.