Sample Ball

& Voter’s Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY ELECTION
REPUBLICAN PARTY

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2008

Last day to register to vote in this election:
JANUARY 22, 2008

For Voting Information Cali 488-3246 or
Toll Free 1-800-742-1011

www.co.fresno.ca.us or www.ss.ca.gov

MARK YOUR VOTES * USE THIS AT IRE POLLS

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

IF VOTING BY MAIL, YOUR VOTED BALLOT MUST BE RECEIVED
BY FRESNO COUNTY ELECTION OFFICIALS
NO LATER THAN 8:00 P.M. ON ELECTION DAY.

Compiled by Victor E. Salazar
Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters

Boleta de Muestra

y Folleto del Elector

ELECCION PRIMARIA PRESIDENCY CONSOLIDADA
PARTIDO REPUBLICANO
MARTES, 5 DE FEBRERO DEL 2008

El plazo para empadronarse a votar en esta eleccion vence:
EL DIA 22 DE ENERO DEL 2008

Para informes tocantes al proceso de votacibn,
favor de llamar al telefono 488-3246 por cobrar 1-800-742-1011

MARQUE SUS VOTOS EN ESTA BOLETA DE MUESTRA Y USELA EN SU SITIO
DEVOTACION.

EL SITIO DE VOTACION DONDE DEBE USTED ECHAR SU VOTO SE INDICA AL DORSO.

LAS URNAS ELECTORALES SE ABREN A LAS 7:00 DE LA MANANA Y
SE CIERRAN A LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE.

SI USTED VOTA POR CORREO, SU BOLETA YA VOTADA DEBE DE LLEGAR A MANOS
DE LOS OFICIALES DE LAS ELECCIONES DEL CONDADO DE FRESNO A MAS
TARDAR PARA LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE DEL DIA DE LA ELECCION.

Boleta compilada por Victor E. Salazar, Oflcial del Registro Civil/Empadronador de
Electores del Condado de Fresno.

. '*■?

. oee back
AVISO

Puede haberse efectuado un
cambio en el sitio de votac
de usted. Comprue1’'-
de votac’'

OFFICIAL BALLOT / BOLETA OFICIAL

CONSOLIDATED PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY ELECTION
ELECCION PRIMARIA PRESIDENCIAL CONSOLIDADA
FEBRUARY 5, 2008, FRESNO COUNTY / 5 DE FEBRERO DEL 2008, CONDADO DE FRESNO

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS: You must use a black pen, blue pen or No. 2 pencil to completely fill in the oval to the left of your choice. Fill in
the whole oval, or your vote may not be counted.

INSTRUCCIONES AL ELECTOR: Utilice usted una pluma o boligrafo de tinta negra o azul, o bien un lapiz No. 2, para llenar completamente el
ovalo al lado izquierdo de su preferencia. Llene el ovalo completamente, para que su voto sea contado con seguridad.

Fill in oval like this

Llene el ovalo asi

DEMOCRATIC PARTY / PARTIDO DEMOCRATICO

PARTISAN / PARTIDARIOS

PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
PRESIDENTE DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS

PRESIDENTIAL PREFERENCE
PREFERENCIA PRESIDENCIAL

VOTE FOR ONE	VOTE POR UNO

—	Q BILL RICHARDSON	Democratic/Demoocrata
—	Q DENNIS KUCINICH	Democratic/Demoocrata
—	Q MIKE GRAVEL	Democratic/Demoocrata
—	Q JOHN EDWARDS	Democratic/Demoocrata
—	Q CHRIS DODD	Democratic/Demoocrata
—	Q HILLARY CLINTON	Democratic/Demoocrata
—	QJOE BIDEN	Democratic/Dembocrata
—	Q BARACK OBAMA	Democratic/Demoocrata
	f—>>	
	v—y Write-In / Voto Escrito	

NONPARTISAN / NO-PARTIDARIOS

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS
PROPUESTAS SOMETIDAS A LOS ELECTORES
STATE/ESTADO

91.	TRANSPORTATION FUNDS. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Prohibits certain
motor vehicle fuel taxes from being retained in
General Fund and delays repayment of such taxes
previously retained. Changes how and when General
Fund borrowing of certain transportation funds is
allowed. Fiscal Impact: Increases stability of state
funding for highways, streets, and roads and may
decrease stability of state funding for public transit.
May reduce stability of certain local funds for public
transit.

91.	FONDOS PARA TRANSPORTE. ENMIENDA
CONSTITUCIONAL POR INICIATIVA. Prohibe que
ciertos impuestos sobre el combustible de vehlculos
automotores se retengan en el Fondo General y
demora el reintegro de dichos impuestos retenidos
anteriormente. Cambia cuando y c6mo se permite que
el Fondo General tome en prestamo ciertos fondos de
transporte. Impacto fiscal: Aumenta la estabilidad del
financiamiento estatal para autopistas, calles y
caminos y puede reducir la estabilidad del
financiamiento estatal para el transporte publico.
Puede reducir la estabilidad de ciertos fondos locales
para el transporte publico.

QYES, SI
Q NO, NO

92.	COMMUNITY COLLEGES. FUNDING.
GOVERNANCE. FEES. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE.

Establishes independent community college districts
and Board of Governors. Requires minimum funding
for schools and community colleges to be calculated
separately. Sets fees at $15/unit and limits future
increases. Fiscal Impact: Increased state spending
on K-14 education from 2007-08 through 2009-10
averaging about $300 million annually, with unknown
impacts annually thereafter. Potential loss in
community college student fee revenues of about $70
million annually.

92.	UNIVERSIDADES COMUNITARIAS.
FINANCIAMIENTO. GOBERNANZA. CUOTAS.
ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL POR INICIATIVA Y
LEY. Establece distritos independientes de
universidades comunitarias y una Junta Directiva.
Requiere que se calcule por separado el
financiamiento minimo para las escuelas y las
universidades comunitarias. Fija cuotas de $15 por
unidad y limita los aumentos futuros. Impacto fiscal:
Aumenta el gasto del estado en educacibn K-14
desde 2007-08 hasta fines de 2009-10 en un
promedio de $300 millones anuales, con impactos
anuales desconocidos a partir de entonces. Posible
perdida de recaudaciones de las universidades
comunitarias provenientes de las cuotas estudiantiles
de unos $70 millones anuales.

QYES, SI
Q NO, NO

93.	LIMITS ON LEGISLATORS’ TERMS IN OFFICE.
INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

Reduces permissible state legislative service to 12
years. Allows 12 years’ service in one house. Current
legislators can serve 12 years in current house,
regardless of prior legislative service. Fiscal Impact:
No direct fiscal effect on state or local governments.

93.	LiMITES SOBRE LOS PERIODOS DE LOS
LEGISLADORES. ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL
POR INICIATIVA. Reduce el servicio legislative
permisible en el estado a 12 afios. Permite 12 afios de
servicio en una camara. En la actualidad los
legisladores pueden servir 12 afios en la efimara
actual, independlentemente de su servicio legislative
anterior. Impacto fiscal: Sin efecto fiscal directo sobre
los gobiernos estatal o locales.

QYES, Si
QNO, NO

94.	REFERENDUM ON AMENDMENT TO
INDIAN GAMING COMPACT. “Yes” Vote
approves, and "No’’ Vote rejects, a law that
ratifies an amendment to existing gaming
compact between the state and Pechanga Band
of Luisefio Mission Indians. Fiscal Impact: Net
increase in annual state revenues probably in the
tens of millions of dollars, growing over time
through 2030.

94.	REFERENDO SOBRE UNA ENMIENDA
DEL ACUERDO DE JUEGO INDIGENA. Un voto
“SI” aprueba y un voto “No” rechaza una ley que
ratifica una enmienda del acuerdo de juego
existente entre el estado y la Banda Pechanga
de los Indigenas Misioneros Luisenos. Impacto
fiscal: Aumento neto de las recaudaciones
anuales del estado, probablemente de decenas
de millones de dblares, que aumentara a lo largo
del tiempo hasta el afio 2030.

QYES, Si
QNO, NO

95.	REFERENDUM ON AMENDMENT TO
INDIAN GAMING COMPACT. “Yes” Vote
approves, and “No” Vote rejects, a law that
ratifies an amendment to existing gaming
compact between the state and Morongo Band of
Mission Indians. Fiscal Impact: Net increase in
annual state revenues probably in the tens of
millions of dollars, growing over time through
2030.

95.	REFERENDO SOBRE UNA ENMIENDA
DEL ACUERDO DE JUEGO INDIGENA. Un voto
“SI” aprueba y un voto “No” rechaza una ley que
ratifica una enmienda del acuerdo de juego
existente entre el estado y la Banda Morongo de
los Indigenas Misioneros. Impacto fiscal:
Aumento neto de las recaudaciones anuales del
estado, probablemente de decenas de millones
de dblares, que aumentar£ a lo largo del tiempo
hasta el ano 2030.

QYES, SI
Q NO, NO

TURN OVER AND VOTE BOTH SIDES

VOLTIE Y VOTE AM BOS LADOS

FRONT Card 63 RptPct 711-711 ”0000711”

05-D-F

D FR 005-003

96. REFERENDUM ON AMENDMENT TO INDIAN
GAMING COMPACT. “Yes” Vote approves, and “No”
Vote rejects, a law that ratifies an amendment to
existing gaming compact between the state and
Sycuan Band of the Kumeyaay Nation. Fiscal Impact:
Net increase in annual state revenues probably in the
tens of millions of dollars, growing over time through
2030.

96.	REFERENDO SOBRE UNA ENMIENDA DEL
ACUERDO DE JUEGO INDIGENA. Un voto “Si"
aprueba y un voto “No” rechaza una ley que ratifica
una enmienda del acuerdo de juego existente entre el
estado y la Banda Sycuan de la Nacion Kumeyaay.
Impacto fiscal: Aumento neto de las recaudaciones
anuales del estado, probablemente de decenas de
millones de dolares, que aumentara a lo largo del
tiempo hasta el ano 2030.

QYES, Si
QNO, NO

97.	REFERENDUM ON AMENDMENT TO INDIAN
GAMING COMPACT. “Yes" Vote approves, and “No”
Vote rejects, a law that ratifies an amendment to
existing gaming compact between the state and Agua
Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians. Fiscal Impact: Net
increase in annual state revenues probably in the tens
of millions of dollars, growing over time through 2030.
97. REFERENDO SOBRE UNA ENMIENDA DEL
ACUERDO DE JUEGO INDIGENA. Un voto “Si"
aprueba y un voto “No" rechaza una ley que ratifica
una enmienda del acuerdo de juego existente entre el
estado y la Banda Agua Caliente de los Indigenas
Cahuilla. Impacto fiscal: Aumento neto de las
recaudaciones anuales del estado, probablemente de
decenas de millones de dolares, que aumentara a lo
largo del tiempo hasta el aflo 2030.

Q YES, SI
QNO, NO

CITY / CIUDAD

CITY OF REEDLEY, MEASURE G: The Reedley
Police, Fire, 9-1-1, and Gang/Drug Prevention
Measure. To reduce gang/drug related crimes by:
hiring/training/retaining police officers; deploying
special enforcement units to fight gang members/drug
dealers; Providing firefighters with enhanced
emergency medical training/equipment; upgrading
police/fire radios; shall the City of Reedley sales tax
be increased by one half cent with citizens’ oversight
and independent annual financial audits of all
expenditures as provided by Ordinance No. 2007-05?
CIUDAD DE REEDLEY, INICIATIVA DE LEY G:
Iniciativa de Ley para la Policia, Bomberos, 9-1-1 y
Prevencion de Pandillas/Drogas de Reedley. A fin
de reducir los delitos relacionados con las
pandillas/drogas al: contratar/capacitar/retener
oficiales de policia; desplegar unidades especiales del
orden publico para luchar contra los miembros de
pandillas/vendedores de drogas; Proporcionar a los
bomberos mayor capacitacion/equipos para
emergencias medicas; modernizar las radios de
policias/bomberos; i,debe aumentarse el impuesto a
las ventas de la Ciudad de Reedley en medio centavo
con supervision ciudadana independiente y auditorias
financieras anuales de todos los gastos conforme la
Ordenanza No. 2007-05?

QYES, SI
QN0, NO

tiidki rn/nD Akin vote datu cmcc	\/r»i	tic	v	\/nrc	amdoc	i	Anrva

BACK Card 63 RptPct 711-711 "0000711"

05-D-B

D FR 005-004

CITY OF REEDLEY
MEASURE G
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

The Reedley Police, Fire, 9-1-1, and Gang/Drug Prevention Measure. To reduce
gang/drug related crimes by: hiring/training/retaining police officers; deploying special
enforcement units to fight gang members/drug dealers; Providing firefighters with
enhanced emergency medical training/equipment; upgrading police/fire radios; shall
the City of Reedley sales tax be increased by one half cent with citizens’ oversight and
independent annual financial audits of all expenditures as provided by Ordinance No.
2007-05?

ORDINANCE NO. 2007-05

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF REEDLEY
ADDING CHAPTER 11 TO TITLE 5 OF THE REEDLEY MUNICIPAL CODE
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF REEDLEY DOES ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 11, entitled “Transactions and Use Tax,” is added to
Title 5 of the Reedley City Code to read as follows:

“Section 5-11-1. TITLE. This chapter shall be known as the “City of Reedley
Transactions and Use Tax.” The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City of Reedley.

Section 5-11-2. DEFINITIONS. As used in this chapter, “City” means the City
of Reedley and “tax” means the transactions and use taxes imposed under the
provisions of this chapter; “tax revenue” and “tax revenues” mean all proceeds of the
tax received by the City from the State Board of Equalization.

Section 5-11-3. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of
the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this
ordinance, the date of such adoption set forth below.

Section 5-11-4. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted
in order to accomplish those purposes:

(A)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance
with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
effective if a 2/3 majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(B)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the
State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

(C)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered
and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State
Sales and Use Taxes.

(D)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of recordkeeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 5-11-5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 0.50 percent (one-half of one percent) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 5-11-6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all
retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-
state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has
more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 5-11-7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or
other consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.50 percent (one-half of one percent)
of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

Section 5-11-8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully
set forth herein.

Section 5-11-9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE AW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

(A) Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as
the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word “State” is used as part of the title of the
State Controller, State Treasure, State Board of Control, State Board
of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action
to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or
employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

PR-9015-1

D FR 005-006

(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
except from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation code, or;

(b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
State under the said provisions of that code.

(4) In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.	>

(B) The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in
the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in
the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 5-11-10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 5-11-11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

(A)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any State-administered transactions or use tax.

(B)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel
or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City
which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract
of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than

commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411	of the Public utilities Code, and

undocumented vessels registered under division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

(b) With respect to commercial vehicles, by

registration to a place of business out-of-City and

declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,

that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller
is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

(C) There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this
ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible
personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any State-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased
by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease
which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of
time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of,
or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use
tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates

________within	the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not

PR-9015-2

D FR 005-007

(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
except from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation code, or;

(b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
State under the said provisions of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

(B) The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in
the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in
the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 5-11-10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 5-11-11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

(A)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any State-administered transactions or use tax.

(B)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel
or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City
which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract
of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to	vehicles (other than

commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

PR-9015-2

(b) With respect to commercial vehicles, by

registration to a place of business out-of-City and

declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,

that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller
is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

(C)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this
ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible
personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any State-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased
by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease
which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of
time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of,
or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use
tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not

D FR 005-007

	limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.  (7) “A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.  (D) Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.  Section 5-11-12. PERMISSIBLE USES. Expenditure Plan.  (A) The revenues of the tax shall only be used to fund the following uses and purposes. The “Five Year Expenditure Plan” attached herewith as Exhibit “A” illustrates revenues and expenditures for the initial five year period after the effective date of the tax. Funding with tax revenues of all other uses and purposes, except as provided in paragraph (C) of this section, is prohibited.  (1)	POLICE  (a)	Police patrol services;  (b)	Police traffic control services;  (c)	Gang enforcement, school resource services, and bicycle patrol;  (d)	Police support services, including facilities and equipment and the financing thereof;  (e)	Competitive salary, Retention and Benefit compensation for Police Personnel;  (f)	Funding new Police Department Personnel.  (2)	FIRE  (a)	Construction and relocation (including, but not limited to, land acquisition, facilities design, and use of temporary facilities) of fire stations and the financing thereof;  (b)	Purchase of specialized equipment for Fire Department;  (c)	Competitive salary, Retention and Benefit compensation for Fire Personnel;  (d)	Comprehensive Fire Prevention Program;  (e)	Funding new Fire Department Personnel.	(B)	Of the tax revenues received by the City, seventy-percent (70%) shall be expended for Police purposes as specified in sections (a) through (f) of subparagraph (A)(1), thirty-percent (30%) shall be expended for Fire purposes as specified in sections (a) through (e) of subparagraph (A)(2). The foregoing percentage allocations shall be reviewed or changed annually following the recommendation of the Citizens Oversight Committee and the approval of the Council.  (C)	Funding of the Expenditure Plan may not be below the actual revenues received from the tax nor shall tax revenues be used to replace or supplant expenditures or programs funded by the City General Fund prior to the approval of the special tax, unless the Council finds that:  (1)	Preservation of public safety requires the expenditure; and  (2)	There is no other feasible way of funding the expenditure.  (D)	The Council, by resolution, shall establish a five member Citizen Oversight Committee to annually review expenditures and appropriations of the tax revenues to ensure that all such revenues are spent or appropriated for the purposes and uses set forth in paragraphs (A) and (C), in accordance with the allocation percentages set forth in paragraph (B). The Citizens Oversight Committee shall also be authorized to make recommendations to the City Council regarding the allocation percentages set forth in paragraph (B).  Each member of the Council shall appoint one member of the Committee who shall have a term coinciding with the term of the appointing Council Member. Each Committee member shall be a resident of the City at the time of appointment and shall remain a resident of the City while serving on the Committee. The Mayor shall appoint the chairperson of the Committee subject to the approval of the majority of the Council. The Committee shall receive the assistance of City staff and shall issue an annual public report on the expenditures and appropriations of the tax revenues. The Committee shall undertake such additional duties as the Council may designate. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (D), the Committee and its members shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 1 of Title 2 of the Reedley Municipal Code, beginning with Section 2-1-1.  Section 5-11-13. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter.  Section 5-11-14. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.  Section 5-11-15. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder ot the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.	
	PR-9015-3		
			
	Section 5-11-16. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.  Section 5-11-17. DECENNIAL REVIEW. The tax imposed by this Chapter shall be reviewed by the Citizens Oversight Committee and the City Council every ten (10) years.”  SECTION 2. This ordinance, following its adoption by at least four (4) affirmative votes of the Council and its publication, shall become effective upon the approval of the tax imposed hereunder by two-thirds of the voters of the City voting thereon at an election called for that purpose. The “Operative Date” of the tax imposed hereunder shall be as provided in 5-11 -3.  ATTEST:  1 hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 2007-05 was introduced and given first reading by title only at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Reedley held on the 30th day of October, 2007, and was thereafter duly passed, approved, and adopted at a regular meeting of said City Council held on the 7th day of November, 2007, by the following vote:  AYES: Brackett, Betancourt, Fast, Rapada, Soleno.  NOES: None.  ABSENT: None.  ABSTAIN: None.  s/ Ray Soleno Mayor of the City of Reedley  ATTEST:  s/ Kay L. Pierce Deputy City Clerk  IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY  “On November 7, 2007, the Reedley City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2007-05, which establishes a new sales and use tax on all taxable transactions within the City of Reedley. Measure “G” seeks voter approval of the new sales tax described in Ordinance No. 2007-05 because state law does not allow the imposition of a new sales tax by City Council action alone; voter approval is also required by law. The amount of the sales and use tax is one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) and the sales and use tax will be added to other existing sales taxes by retail and other vendors and charged and collected in the same way in which traditional sales taxes are charged and collected. The proposed sales and use tax can only be used for a limited list of expenditures that are consistent with a detailed “Expenditure Plan” which is a part of Ordinance No. 2007-05. The Expenditure Plan describes, in detail the type of expenditures that will be allowed for public safety purposes, programs and purchases. The Ordinance also establishes a five member Citizen Oversight Committee whose responsibility it is to make annual reviews of the expenditures of the sales tax revenues in order to ensure that they are spent in a manner consistent with the Expenditure Plan. The Citizens Oversight Committee is also required to make an annual public report regarding the expenditures of the proceeds of the tax by the City. Passage of Ballot Measure “G” requires two-thirds voter approval. If approved by the voters, the special sales tax would become effective on July 1, 2008, and continue until repealed	by the voters of the City of Reedley. The Ordinance requires the Citizens Oversight Committee and the Council to review the tax measure every ten years.”  The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 2007-05. If you desire a copy of the Ordinance, please call the elections official’s office at (559) 637-4200 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.  s/ Dale E. Bacigalupi Reedley City Attorney  ARGUMENT IN FAVOR  Want to get qanqs and druqs out of Reedlev? If so. vote Yes on G.  The number of drug related arrests in Reedley has increased by nearly 70% in the past six years and we have as many as 400 active gang members and associates in our City. Methamphetamine and other drug trafficking have become serious problems.  We must attack these problems bv votina Yes on G.  Did you know that nearly 90% of all 9-1-1 calls answered by the Reedley Fire Department are medical emergencies?  YES on G upgrades Reedley firefighters’ training and allows the fire department to purchase life saving equipment.  Yes on G improves YOUR safetv bv increasing police presence in Reedley’s neighborhoods, parks and schools, expanding community policing, and increasing anti-drug and anti-gang police officers.  Yes on G deploys special units to conduct gang and drug sweeps Yes on G replaces outdated radio equipment for police and fire Yes on G maintains and retains Reedley police officers  With communities throughout the area like Fresno, Selma, Dinuba, Visalia, Porterville and Clovis getting tough with gangs - MEASURE G is essential for Reedley to put more police officers on the street to keep our City safe.  Measure G includes strona fiscal accountability requirements, such as mandatory annual, independent financial audits and independent Citizen’s Oversiaht. All funds will be deposited into a separate Public Safetv Fund to ensure monev is spent as	
		promised to the community. Revenues are in addition to —not replacement of - existing Public Safety funding. Visitors shopping in Reedley also pay.  Yes on G is a fiscally responsible plan to protect our families and keep our children from gangs and drugs. Join your Reedley Police Officers and Firefighters, paramedics, educators, business leaders, vouth and senior advocates in VOTING Yes on G. Visit www.KeepReedleySafe.com for more information.  s/ Bryan Harman President, Reedley Firefighters Association  s/ Juan Garza Superintendent, KCUSD  s/ Sean Provost President, Reedley Police Officers Association  s/Gilbert Foster Pastor  s/ Pete Perez President, Reedley Chamber of Commerce  NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED AGAINST THIS MEASURE	

PR-9015-4

D FR 005-009

Section 5-11-16. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the
City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident
to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance;
provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution
of such a contract.

Section 5-11-17. DECENNIAL REVIEW. The tax imposed by this Chapter
shall be reviewed by the Citizens Oversight Committee and the City Council every ten
(10) years.”

SECTION 2. This ordinance, following its adoption by at least four (4)
affirmative votes of the Council and its publication, shall become effective upon the
approval of the tax imposed hereunder by two-thirds of the voters of the City voting
thereon at an election called for that purpose. The “Operative Date” of the tax
imposed hereunder shall be as provided in 5-11-3.

ATTEST:

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 2007-05 was introduced and
given first reading by title only at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of
Reedley held on the 30th day of October, 2007, and was thereafter duly passed,
approved, and adopted at a regular meeting of said City Council held on the 7th day
of November, 2007, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Brackett, Betancourt, Fast, Rapada, Soleno.
None.

None.

None.

s/ Ray Soleno
Mayor of the City of Reedley

ATTEST:

by the voters of the City of Reedley. The Ordinance requires the Citizens Oversight
Committee and the Council to review the tax measure every ten years.”

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 2007-05. If you desire
a copy of the Ordinance, please call the elections official’s office at (559) 637-4200
and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

s/ Dale E. Bacigalupi
Reedley City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Want to get gangs and drugs out of Reedley? If so, vote Yes on G.

The number of drug related arrests in Reedley has increased by nearly 70% in the past
six years and we have as many as 400 active gang members and associates in our
City. Methamphetamine and other drug trafficking have become serious problems.

We must attack these problems by voting Yes on G.

Did you know that nearly 90% of all 9-1-1 calls answered by the Reedley Fire
Department are medical emergencies?

YES on G upgrades Reedley firefighters’ training and allows the fire department to
purchase life saving equipment.

Yes on G improves YOUR safety by increasing police presence in Reedley’s
neighborhoods, parks and schools, expanding community policing, and increasing
anti-drug and anti-gang police officers.

Yes on G deploys special units to conduct gang and drug sweeps
Yes on G replaces outdated radio equipment for police and fire
Yes on G maintains and retains Reedley police officers

With communities throughout the area like Fresno, Selma, Dinuba, Visalia, Porterville
and Clovis getting tough with gangs - MEASURE G is essential for Reedley to put
more police officers on the street to keep our City safe.

s/ Kay L. Pierce

Deputy City Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

“On November 7, 2007, the Reedley City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2007-05,
which establishes a new sales and use tax on all taxable transactions within the City of
Reedley. Measure “G” seeks voter approval of the new sales tax described in
Ordinance No. 2007-05 because state law does not allow the imposition of a new
sales tax by City Council action alone; voter approval is also required by law. The
amount of the sales and use tax is one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) and the sales
and use tax will be added to other existing sales taxes by retail and other vendors and
charged and collected in the same way in which traditional sales taxes are charged
and collected. The proposed sales and use tax can only be used for a limited list of
expenditures that are consistent with a detailed “Expenditure Plan” which is a part of
Ordinance No. 2007-05. The Expenditure Plan describes, in detail the type of
expenditures that will be allowed for public safety purposes, programs and purchases.
The Ordinance also establishes a five member Citizen Oversight Committee whose
responsibility it is to make annual reviews of the expenditures of the sales tax revenues
in order to ensure that they are spent in a manner consistent with the Expenditure
Plan. The Citizens Oversight Committee is also required to make an annual public
report regarding the expenditures of the proceeds of the tax by the City. Passage of
Ballot Measure “G” requires two-thirds voter approval. If approved by the voters, the
special sales tax would become effective on July 1,2008, and continue until repealed

Measure G includes strong fiscal accountability requirements, such as mandatory
annual, independent financial audits and Independent Citizen’s Oversight. All funds
will be deposited into a separate Public Safety Fund to ensure money is spent as
promised to the community. Revenues are in addition to —not replacement of -
existing Public Safety funding. Visitors shopping in Reedley also pay.

Yes on G is a fiscally responsible plan to protect our families and keep our children
from gangs and drugs. Join your Reedley Police Officers and Firefighters,
paramedics, educators, business leaders, youth and senior advocates in VOTING Yes
on G. Visit www.KeepReedleySafe.com for more information.

s/ Bryan Harman
President, Reedley Firefighters Association

s/ Juan Garza
Superintendent, KCUSD

s/ Sean Provost
President, Reedley Police Officers Association

s/Gilbert Foster
Pastor

s/ Pete Perez
President, Reedley Chamber of Commerce

NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED AGAINST THIS MEASURE

D FR 005-009