CITY OF OAKLAND MEASURE NN	
|L | |L | MEASURE NN: To pro-  l\l l\l vide more police services to 1 1 neighborhoods and busi- nesses for the purpose of preventing crime and enhancing resources for inve crimes, shall the City of Oakland authorize to fund the cost of (1) adding a total of officers and 75 police services technicians; data management system for crime analy mandatory independent annual audits and with performance standards?	YES
	NO
	stigation of a parcel tax 105 police (2) a crime sis; and (3) evaluations

CITY ATTORNEY’S BALLOT TITLE AND
SUMMARY OF MEASURE NN

BALLOT TITLE:

The 2008 Oakland Police Services Expansion Mea-
sure. A Proposed Ordinance Creating A Special Parcel Tax
To Increase Police Personnel and Add A Data Manage-
ment System

BALLOT SUMMARY:

This measure authorizes a new special parcel tax. This
tax funds additional police personnel costs for the purpose
of maintaining and enhancing police services and pro-
grams to prevent crime in the City of Oakland.

Tax revenues must be placed in a special fund and
expended only to:

A.	Increase police personnel as follows:

1.	Add 35 police officers and add 25 police services
technicians in Fiscal Year (FY) 2009-10. (FY is
July 1st through June 30th.)

2.	Add 35 police officers and add 25 police services
technicians in FY 2010-11, cumulatively 70 addi-
tional police officers and 50 police services techni-
cians.

3.	Add 35 police officers and add 25 police services
technicians in FY 2011-12, cumulatively 105 addi-
tional police officers and 75 police services techni-
cians.

4.	Cover cost of 105 police officers and 75 police
services technicians in each subsequent FY.

B.	Data management system to analyze crime statistics.

C.	Annual audits, evaluation, and engineering.

D.	Cover personnel costs such as recruitment, salaries,
benefits, and training.

The annual tax rate is set as follows:

A.	Per single family residential parcel:

FY 2009-10: $113.42

FY 2010-11: $184.87

FY 2011-12 and each subsequent FY: $275.56
Fow income parcels are exempted.

B.	Multiple Residential Unit Parcels (per unit):

FY 2009-10: $77.49

FY 2010-11: $126.30

FY 2011-12 and each subsequent FY: $188.26
Owners of units vacant for at least six months may
request a 50% reduction.

C.	For non-residential parcels, the tax is calculated by
multiplying a parcel’s Single Family Residential
Unit Equivalents (“SFE”) times the tax rate. SFE is
based on frontage and square footage, specified in
Ordinance Part 3, Section 2(C).

FY 2009-10: $58.09 per SFE

FY 2010-11: $94.68 per SFE

FY 2011-12 and each subsequent FY: $141.13 per

SFE

The parcel tax cannot be imposed unless minimum
staffing requirements are met. Whether the City meets
minimum staffing requirements is determined as follows:

(1)	Each FY the Council determines the number of cur-
rently employed police officers (“annual determination”);

(2)	The tax may be imposed for the following FY only, if
the number of police officers currently employed on the
annual determination date meets minimum staffing
requirements; (3) Minimum staffing requirement is 803
officers currently employed on the annual determination
date while the Violence Prevention and Public Safety Act
of 2004 is in effect; otherwise the minimum staffing
requirement is 740 officers.

If the City meets the minimum staffing requirements, it
may impose the FY 2009-10 tax rates. The City can
increase the rate to the FY 2010-11 levels only, if 35 addi-
tional offers are currently employed on the annual deter-
mination date. The City can increase the rate to the FY
2011-12 level only, if additional 35 officers are currently
employed (cumulatively 70 additional police officers) on
the annual determination date. Once the rates are increased
to the FY 2011-12 rates, rates are effective provided the
minimum staffing requirements are met.

Annual independent audits and outside evaluations are
required.
s/JOHN RUSSO
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE NN

Vote yes on Measure NN

Measure NN is necessary. Oakland has experienced unac-
ceptable rates of crime and violence that affect families,
businesses, and the city’s overall quality of life. Prevent-
ing violence and ensuring public safety requires that
police services be adequately staffed. Current limited
police staff significantly impacts the Oakland Police
Department’s ability to rapidly respond to calls for service
and thoroughly investigate crimes.

Measure NN is attainable and sustainable. This measure
would add 35 police officers and 25 police services techni-
cians each year for three years - a total increase of 105
police officers and 75 police services technician positions.
With additional new officers, the Oakland Police Depart-
ment can reduce response times to calls for service, elimi-
nate the significant backlog in investigations, and conduct
more efficient analyses leading to more arrests and convic-
tions of those persons committing crimes. These increased
resources will be particularly important for improving
child abuse, sexual assault, gang-related violence, and
juvenile crime investigations.

Measure NN is forward looking. More police officers will
allow more resources to be dedicated to prevention and
education to keep communities safe and youth away from
violence and crime. Police will have increased capacity to
utilize real-time data and information to prevent crimes, as
well as quickly respond to crimes in progress. Additional
crime analysts will help area commanders and investiga-
tors identify trends, and patterns of criminal behavior to
better focus on prevention and apprehension. They will
assist investigators prepare for interviews with suspects
and provide information that could lead to the recovery of
stolen property. This proposal requires mandatory inde-
pendent annual audits and evaluations with performance
standards to measure the program’s success.

Join us in voting Yes on Measure NN.
s/Ronald V. Dellums
Mayor of Oakland
s/Larry E. Reid
Vice Mayor
s/Wayne G. Tucker
Oakland Police Chief
s/Dick Spees
Former Oakland Councilmember
s/Nola Brantley
Co-Founder, Missey, Inc.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE NN

Nobody disputes that Oakland has a public-safety crisis
and inadequate police services. Oakland also has some of
the highest taxes in the Bay Area. Most Oaklanders agree
that the time to reform City Hall and fix Oakland is
NOW!! It is not the time to increase your taxes.
Proponents of Measure NN say that more police officers
will result in improved police services. However, in the
last year, Oakland has added approximately 100 more offi-
cers and response rates have not improved. In fact,
CRIME HAS INCREASED AND ARRESTS HAVE
DECREASED.

Measure NN is not necessary. With a complete audit, per-
formance standards for all employees, and a reduction in
fraud and waste, we can find additional money, reprioritize
our spending and hire more police.

Measure NN is attainable but not sustainable. Anything is
attainable when we keep going back to tax you. Politicians
are good at taxing residents but this is not sustainable.
Public safety is a basic municipal function. At some point,
city hall has to clean up its own house. That time is now.
Measure NN is not forward looking. What IS forward
looking is to set performance standards for all City depart-
ments and ensure that our city is operating at maximum
efficiency. Until we do this, we won’t know if we’re using
your tax dollars wisely, and you shouldn’t pay more.

City Hall needs to clean its own house before taxing yours.
TAX HIKES ARE BUSINESS AS USUAL, NOT LEAD-
ERSHIP. Vote no on Measure NN.
s/Brendan J. Mulholland
Community Policing Advisory Board
s/Carlos Plazola
President, Oakland Builder’s Alliance
s/Colleen Brown
Community Policing Advisory Board
(former member)
s/Charles Porter

S.P.A.G.G.I.A.
s/Josephine J. Lee
NCPC Beat 10X Vice Chairman

OKNN-4

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE NN

Government responsibility must not be shifted to Oak-
land’s residents in these tight economic times or at any
time. Until City Hall is more accountable with the special
taxes you already pay, we shouldn’t ask for more money.
In 2004, you were asked to pass Measure Y which
promised community policing officers in all neighbor-
hoods and full staffing of the police department; to date
you don’t have either.

An adequate police force is one of the most basic services
that city government must provide WITHOUT the imposi-
tion of special taxes. In addition to the tax you already pay
for Measure Y, this measure will impose a new tax of $113
per single family home during the first year and it more
than doubles to $276 by the third year. Oakland is in the
top 20 cities in the nation with foreclosed homes. This
additional tax burden has the potential to push struggling
families in tight financial situations over the edge.

This is an extremely expensive and hastily written tax
measure that does not contain a sunset clause, meaning we
will PAY FOR THIS TAX FOREVER regardless of future
budget conditions.

If public safety is TRULY our #1 priority, Oakland’s city
government must find creative ways to increase the num-
ber of sworn officers on the streets. Instead of pushing res-
idents to pay additional taxes we need true reform that
addresses existing inefficiencies and wasteful spending.
We cannot afford to further erode the public trust. Requir-
ing payment of yet another high priced tax without clear
oversight, accountability, and attainable deliverables
would echo the failure of Measure Y - a failure too costly
to repeat. Vote NO on more taxes without good govern-
ment.

Please join thousands of your fellow Oaklanders and Vote
No on Measure NN.
s/Ignacio De La Fuente
Oakland City Council President
s/Desley Brooks
Oakland City Councilmember, District 6
s/Charles Pine
Co-Founder Oakland Residents for Peaceful
Neighborhoods
s/Deirdre Strickland-Meads
Former Measure Y Oversight Committee Member
s/Enoch Shin
Oakland Small Business Owner

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE NN

Reducing crime IS the City’s #1 priority. We need addi-
tional police to bring crime under control. Measure NN
would provide those much needed resources to keep our
City safe and to improve investigations of robberies and
homicides.

Yet, increasing the police force by 105 officers and 75
investigative technicians over a three-year period does not
come free. It will cost the City $26 million per year. With-
out this new source of funding, to increase police staffing
Oakland would have to run the rest of the City’s essential
basic services on only 20% of the budget - a budget that is
already extremely stretched during the current economic
downturn.

Quality of life in Oakland is not just about reducing crime,
it’s also about having rapid response for fire and emer-
gency medical services, safe havens for children at our
libraries, parks and recreation facilities that are open seven
days a week, oversight for new retail and small business
development, assurance that construction is done safely,
and well lit streets for safety and visibility, among other
necessary services.

But quality of life starts with the public’s safety.

Vote Yes on Measure NN.
s/Barry Donelan
Secretary, Oakland Police Officers Assocation
s/Allene Warren
Past Chair Bear 35Y NCPC
s/Eliza T. Greene
Former Howeowners Association President
s/Ruth Villasenor
Dimond Merchant
s/Jane Brunner
City Councilmember

OKNN-5

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE NN
A Proposed Ordinance Creating A Special Parcel Tax
To Increase Police Personnel And Add A Data Man-
agement System.

WHEREAS, the Mayor and the City Council of the
City of Oakland are committed to provide a safe and
peaceful environment for all Oakland residents; and
WHEREAS, the City of Oakland has been experienc-
ing unacceptable rates of crime and violence that are
impacting families, businesses, and city’s overall quality
of life; and

WHEREAS, preventing violence and ensuring public
safety requires that police services be adequately staffed;
and

WHEREAS, the first challenge Oakland faces once
the current authorized strength is reached this year is to
sustain that level of police staffing; and

WHEREAS, for many residents additional police
staffing is a matter of significant interest and concern; and
WHEREAS, limited police staffing services detrimen-
tally impact the Oakland Police Department’s ability to
rapidly respond to calls for service, thoroughly investigate
crimes, and engage in data-driven policing strategies; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:

That the City Council of the City of Oakland does
hereby submit to the voters at the November 4, 2008 gen-
eral election, an Ordinance, which reads as follows:

PART 1. GENERAL

Section 1. TITLE AND PURPOSE.

(A)	Title. This Ordinance may be cited as the “The
2008 Oakland Police Services Expansion Measure.”

(B)	Purpose. The tax, imposed under this Ordi-
nance, is solely for the purpose of raising revenue neces-
sary to maintain and enhance police services and programs
to prevent crime in the City of Oakland.

This parcel tax is not an ad valorem tax on real proper-
ty, nor a transaction tax or sales tax on the sale of real
property. It is an excise tax on the privilege of using and
use of municipal services. Such municipal services
increase and provide a greater benefit to Owners of Parcels
when programs aimed at preventing crime in the City are
enhanced. Because the proceeds of the tax will be deposit-
ed in a special fund restricted for the services and pro-
grams specified herein, the tax is a special tax.

Section 2. FTNDTNGS.

1.	Investing in adequate police services will signifi-
cantly reduce the economic and social costs associated
with crime and violence and be a cost-effective use of
taxpayer dollars.

2.	Crime occurs in all areas within the Oakland com-
munity and is a concern to residents of the City of Oak-
land.

3.	Crime in Oakland tears apart families and destabi-
lizes communities.

4.	Crime in Oakland disrupts local commercial activi-
ty, reduces business and industrial productivity, deters
tourism and outside financial investments, and reduces
the value of real estate.

5.	Limited police services results in too few officers
on the streets, inadequate support for victims, deficient

investigations, slow response times, insufficient data
analysis and unaddressed community issues.

6.	Police services technicians can be cost effective in
supporting and performing many of the sworn police
officer responsibilities, including significant investiga-
tive and data analysis activities as well as responding
to non-dangerous calls for service.

7.	Adding additional police officers and police ser-
vices technicians is a matter of significant interest to
residents of the City of Oakland.

8.	Adding additional police officers and police ser-
vices technicians is crucial to effectively impacting all
crime and violence in Oakland, especially drug and
gang related homicides, domestic violence, sexual
assault, child abuse, and juvenile crime.

9.	With the addition of police personnel and a data
management system:

•	the Oakland Police Department will be able to
reduce response times to calls for service and pro-
vide more police in our neighborhoods,

•	the Oakland Police Department will be able to bet-
ter serve crime victims and conduct more efficient
and thorough investigations leading to the arrests
and convictions of those responsible for commit-
ting crimes,

•	the Oakland Police Department will be able to
improve crime data collection and analysis,
enhancing data-driven policing strategies to rapidly
identify emerging trends and employ preventative
policing,

•	the Oakland Police Department will have signifi-
cantly more capacity focused on reducing homi-
cides and violent crimes, and

•	the Oakland Police Department will have more
resources to dedicate to prevention and education to
keep communities safe and keep youth out of
gangs, violence and crime.

10.	This special tax is based on a community assess-
ment of the need to increase public services and is
intended to be proportional to and based on estimates
of typical use and benefit from these municipal ser-
vices.

11.	The apportionment of the parcel tax to various types
of properties is based, in part, on the intensity of polic-
ing needed for different kinds of land uses and on the
average number of occupants of a parcel of each type of
property. Users of residential property typically gener-
ate more calls for service to the police department, and
the intensity of use of police services increases as the
number of residential units on a parcel increases. On the
other hand, because of the typically large size of com-
mercial and industrial parcels, and because the employ-
ees who work for businesses located on such parcels
and the customers who visit such businesses generally
outnumber the residents of even a similarly sized parcel
of residential property (partly because non-residentially
developed real property often has more than one busi-
ness operating on it), the tax on commercial/industrial
properties is calculated based on Single Family Resi-
dential Unit Equivalent units.