Sample Ball

& Voter’s Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY ELECTION
REPUBLICAN PARTY

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2008

Last day to register to vote in this election:
JANUARY 22, 2008

For Voting Information Cali 488-3246 or
Toll Free 1-800-742-1011

www.co.fresno.ca.us or www.ss.ca.gov

MARK YOUR VOTES * USE THIS AT IRE POLLS

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

IF VOTING BY MAIL, YOUR VOTED BALLOT MUST BE RECEIVED
BY FRESNO COUNTY ELECTION OFFICIALS
NO LATER THAN 8:00 P.M. ON ELECTION DAY.

Compiled by Victor E. Salazar
Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters

Boleta de Muestra

y Folleto del Elector

ELECCION PRIMARIA PRESIDENCY CONSOLIDADA
PARTIDO REPUBLICANO
MARTES, 5 DE FEBRERO DEL 2008

El plazo para empadronarse a votar en esta eleccion vence:
EL DIA 22 DE ENERO DEL 2008

Para informes tocantes al proceso de votacibn,
favor de llamar al telefono 488-3246 por cobrar 1-800-742-1011

MARQUE SUS VOTOS EN ESTA BOLETA DE MUESTRA Y USELA EN SU SITIO
DEVOTACION.

EL SITIO DE VOTACION DONDE DEBE USTED ECHAR SU VOTO SE INDICA AL DORSO.

LAS URNAS ELECTORALES SE ABREN A LAS 7:00 DE LA MANANA Y
SE CIERRAN A LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE.

SI USTED VOTA POR CORREO, SU BOLETA YA VOTADA DEBE DE LLEGAR A MANOS
DE LOS OFICIALES DE LAS ELECCIONES DEL CONDADO DE FRESNO A MAS
TARDAR PARA LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE DEL DIA DE LA ELECCION.

Boleta compilada por Victor E. Salazar, Oflcial del Registro Civil/Empadronador de
Electores del Condado de Fresno.

. '*■?

. oee back
AVISO

Puede haberse efectuado un
cambio en el sitio de votac
de usted. Comprue1’'-
de votac’'

94. REFERENDUM ON AMENDMENT TO INDIAN
GAMING COMPACT. "Yes” Vote approves, and “No”
Vote rejects, a law that ratifies an amendment to
existing gaming compact between the state and
Pechanga Band of Luiseno Mission Indians. Fiscal
Impact: Net increase in annual state revenues
probably in the tens of millions of dollars, growing over
time through 2030.

94. REFERENDO SOBRE UNA ENMIENDA DEL
ACUERDO DE JUEGO INDIGENA. Un voto “Si”
aprueba y un voto “No” rechaza una ley que ratifica
una enmienda del acuerdo de juego existente entre el
estado y la Banda Pechanga de los Indigenas
Misioneros Luisenos. Impacto fiscal: Aumento neto de
las recaudaciones anuales del estado, probablemente
de decenas de millones de dolares, que aumentara a
lo largo del tiempo hasta el ano 2030.

QYES, Si
QNO, NO

97. REFERENDUM ON AMENDMENT TO INDIAN
GAMING COMPACT. “Yes” Vote approves, and “No”
Vote rejects, a law that ratifies an amendment to
existing gaming compact between the state and Agua
Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians. Fiscal Impact: Net
increase in annual state revenues probably in the tens
of millions of dollars, growing over time through 2030.
97. REFERENDO SOBRE UNA ENMIENDA DEL
ACUERDO DE JUEGO INDIGENA. Un voto “SI”
aprueba y un voto “No” rechaza una ley que ratifica
una enmienda del acuerdo de juego existente entre el
estado y la Banda Agua Caliente de los Indigenas
Cahuilla. Impacto fiscal: Aumento neto de las
recaudaciones anuales del estado, probablemente de
decenas de millones de dolares, que aumentard a lo
largo del tiempo hasta el afio 2030.

QYES, Si
QNO, NO

95. REFERENDUM ON AMENDMENT TO INDIAN
GAMING COMPACT. “Yes” Vote approves, and “No"
Vote rejects, a law that ratifies an amendment to
existing gaming compact between the state and
Morongo Band of Mission Indians. Fiscal Impact: Net
increase in annual state revenues probably in the tens
of millions of dollars, growing over time through 2030.
95. REFERENDO SOBRE UNA ENMIENDA DEL
ACUERDO DE JUEGO INDIGENA. Un voto “Si"
aprueba y un voto “No” rechaza una ley que ratifica
una enmienda del acuerdo de juego existente entre el
estado y la Banda Morongo de los Indigenas
Misioneros. Impacto fiscal: Aumento neto de las
recaudaciones anuales del estado, probablemente de
decenas de millones de dolares, que aumentara a lo
largo del tiempo hasta el arto 2030.

Q YES, SI
QNO, NO

CITY / CIUDAD

96. REFERENDUM ON AMENDMENT TO INDIAN
GAMING COMPACT. “Yes” Vote approves, and “No”
Vote rejects, a law that ratifies an amendment to
existing gaming compact between the state and
Sycuan Band of the Kumeyaay Nation. Fiscal Impact:
Net increase in annual state revenues probably in the
tens of millions of dollars, growing over time through
2030.

96. REFERENDO SOBRE UNA ENMIENDA DEL
ACUERDO DE JUEGO INDIGENA. Un voto “Si”
aprueba y un voto “No” rechaza una ley que ratifica
una enmienda del acuerdo de juego existente entre el
estado y la Banda Sycuan de la Nacion Kumeyaay.
Impacto fiscal: Aumento neto de las recaudaciones
anuales del estado, probablemente de decenas de
millones de dolares, que aumentara a lo largo del
tiempo hasta el ano 2030.

CITY OF SANGER, MEASURE S. Sanger
Police, Fire, Paramedic 9-1-1 Response,
Gang/Drug Prevention Measure. To

recruit/hire/train additional police officers,
firefighters, paramedics and 9-1-1 emergency
dispatch workers; purchase a fire engine,
ambulance, and other emergency equipment;
maintain special anti-gang/anti-drug police units;
increase neighborhood patrols/police presence at
schools; shall the City of Sanger impose a V* cent
sales tax with a citizens’ oversight committee,
annual independent audits, and require all funds to
be used for public safety purposes?

CIUDAD DE SANGER, INICIATIVA DE LEY S.
Iniciativa de ley para la Policia, Bomberos,
Respuesta de Paramedicos del 9-1-1 y
Prevencion Contra Pandillas/Drogas de
Sanger. Para reclutar/contratar/capacitar mas
oficiales de policia, bomberos, paramedicos y
trabajadores de despacho de emergencia del
9-1-1; comprar un camion de bomberos, una
ambulancia y otros equipos de emergencia;
mantener unidades especiales anti-pandillas/anti-
drogas; aumentar la presencia de patrullas/policia
en las escuelas; ^deberia la Ciudad de Sanger
imponer un impuesto sobre las ventas de V* de
centavo con un comite de supervision ciudadana,
auditorias anuales independientes, y exigir que
todos los fondos se utilicen para fines de
seguridad publica?

QYES, SI
QNO, NO

QYES, Si
QNO, NO

TURN OVER AND VOTE BOTH SIDES	VOLTIE	Y	VOTE	AMBOS	LADOS

BACK Card 59 RptPct 661-10 "0000661"

04-R-B

R FR 004-004

CITY OF SANGER
MEASURE S
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

Sanger Police, Fire, Paramedic 9-1-1 Response, Gang/Drug Prevention Measure.

To recruit/hire/train additional police officers, firefighters, paramedics and 9-1-1
emergency dispatch workers; purchase a fire engine, ambulance, and other
emergency equipment; maintain special anti-gang/anti-drug police units; increase
neighborhood patrols/police presence at schools; shall the City of Sanger impose a %
cent sales tax with a citizens’ oversight committee, annual independent audits, and
require all funds to be used for public safety purposes?

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO. 1094

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF SANGER
ADDING ARTICLE VI TO CHAPTER 66 OF THE SANGER CITY CODE, ENACTING A
SPECIAL 3/4 CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SANGER DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Article VI is hereby added to Chapter 66 of the Sanger City Code,
to read as follows:

Sec. 66-200. Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the Sanger Police, Fire, Paramedic 9-1-1
Emergency Response and Gang/Drug Prevention Special Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The City of Sanger hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall
be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Sec. 66-201. Operative Date.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of
such adoption being as set forth below.

Sec. 66-202. Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a special retail transactions and use tax in accordance with
the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of
the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting
the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize
the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize
the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of
this ordinance.

Sec. 66-203. Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of
this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Sec. 66-204. Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a special tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of

0.75% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.
Such tax shall be in addition to any other transactions tax imposed by this Code or
applicable State law.

Sec. 66-205. Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered
by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the
place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

Sec. 66-206. Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory
at the rate of 0.75% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of
the place to which delivery is made. Such special tax shall be in addition to any other
use tax imposed by this Code or applicable State law.

Sec. 66-207. Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Sec. 66-208. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Sec. 66-209. Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by
this ordinance.

Sec. 66-210. Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other tnan commercial vei iiuica;
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating
that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property
the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Sec. 66-211. Amendments.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes
and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance unless any increase in the rate of this tax is first approved
by 2/3 of the voters of the City of Sanger voting on such question.

B.	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9217 or any successor
statute, the City Council of the City of Sanger may amend or repeal this ordinance and
any of its exhibits, but not increase or extend the rate of tax imposed herein, without a
vote of the people.

Sec. 66-212. Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or
against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or
any amount of tax required to be collected.

Sec. 66-213. Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Sec. 66-214. Use of Tax Proceeds and Expenditure Plan.

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be accounted for
and paid into a special Public Safety Trust Fund or account designated for use by the
City of Sanger only for the Police, Fire, Paramedic, 9-1-1 Emergency, and Gang/Drug
Prevention Services set forth in the Program Guidelines and Public Safety Expenditure
Plan for the administration and expenditure of the tax proceeds, attached to this
Ordinance as Exhibit “1.” The Public Safety Expenditure Plan may be amended from
time to time by a majority vote of the City Council, so long as the funds are utilized for
these public safety services. For the purposes of this Part, “Public Safety Services”
means (a) obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining police protection
equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police protection
personnel, and such other police protection service expenses, including capital
expenses, as are deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of the
residents of the City; (b) obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining fire
protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of fire protection
personnel, and such other fire protection service expenses, including capital
expenses, as are deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of the

residents of the City. No revenues collected pursuant to the tax levied hereby may be
spent on department administrators’ salaries, General Fund operating expenses in
effect at the time this ordinance becomes effective, or projects not a part of the Public
Safety Measure Police and Fire Expenditure Plan. It is the intent of the People that
revenues collected hereunder shall supplement, rather than supplant, existing City
expenditures for Public Safety.

Sec. 66-215. Citizen’s Oversight Committee Established; Composition

There is hereby established in the City of Sanger a Citizen’s Oversight
Committee to monitor the expenditures of special revenue collected pursuant to this
Chapter only and to report to the City Council.

A.	Consistent with established regulations and practices in the City of
Sanger, members of the Citizen’s Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. The Committee shall consist of
five members. All Committee members must be residents of the City of Sanger. The
Committee members shall not be current City of Sanger employees, officials,
contractors or vendors of the City. Past employees, officials or vendors shall be
eligible to serve on the Committee, provided that there are no conflicts of interest as
determined by the City Attorney.

B.	Candidates for Committee membership shall be solicited through an
open application process that is promoted through a broad-based recruitment
process. Any Sanger resident of voting age is eligible to apply for Committee
membership, subject to the appointment categories specified herein. The Sanger
Police and Fire Chiefs will review applications and provide input to the Mayor and
Council on applicants. All applications will be reviewed by the Mayor and City
Council, who will collectively have the authority to make all final decisions on
Committee membership.

Sec. 66-216. Terms of Office; Vacancies; Compensation

A.	Of the members of the Committee first appointed, three shall be
appointed for terms of two years, and two for three years. Their successors shall be
appointed for terms of two years. No Committee member shall serve more than three
consecutive terms.

B.	Committee members whose terms expire shall continue to serve until
their successor is appointed and qualified. If a vacancy occurs other than by
expiration of a term, it shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired portion of the
term.

C.	Absence from four consecutive regular meetings without the formal
consent of the Committee shall be deemed to constitute retirement of such Committee
member from the Committee, and the position of such retired member shall be
deemed vacant.

D.	Committee members shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council and
may be removed from office in the sole determination, with or without cause, notice,
hearing or appeal, by the City Council.

E.	Committee members shall receive a fee of $25.00 for each meeting of
the Committee which they attend.

Sec. 66-217. Meetings; Officers; Rules of Procedure; Quorum

A. The Committee may adopt rules and regulations to govern proceedings
and shall set a time for regular meetings which shall be held at least once each month.
A chairman, vice-chairman and secretary will be elected.

R FR 004-008

B.	The Committee shall elect a chairman, vice-chairman and secretary.
Their respective duties shall be as are usually carried out by such officers. Officers
shall hold office for one year and until their successors are elected.

C.	A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business.

D.	Committee meetings are subject to all open-meeting laws, and must be
noticed and open to the public. Committee minutes and reports are a matter of public
record and must be made available to the public in the manner provided by law.

E.	Orientation and training is mandatory for all Committee members. Each
Committee member shall attend such orientation and training prior to their first regular
Committee meeting.

Sec. 66-218. Powers and Duties

A.	The Citizen’s Oversight Committee shall review expenditures of special
revenue collected pursuant to this Chapter only to determine whether such funds are
expended for the purposes specified in the then-current Public Safety Measure Police
and Fire Expenditure Plan, and issuing reports on their findings to the City Council at
least annually. Committee members may also review the annual financial or
performance audits performed by an independent auditor. The Committee shall
confine its oversight specifically to revenues generated under this Chapter. Revenue
generated through other sources shall be outside the jurisdiction of the Committee.

B.	In order to preserve the integrity and independence of the oversight
process, Committee members shall not play a formal role in contracting, project
management, or any other aspect of the Public Safety Measure funding.

C. The Committee is not charged with decision-making on spending
priorities, schedules, project details, funding source decisions, financing plans, or tax
rate assumptions. The Committee shall serve in an advisory-only role to the City
Council. The Committee shall have no jurisdiction other than that delegated to it by
the City Council pursuant to this Chapter.

D. The City Manager or his designee shall provide any reasonable
administrative or technical assistance required by the Committee to fulfill its
responsibilities or publicize its findings.

Section 2.	If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this

Ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have passed this Ordinance and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional or
void for any other reason.

Section 3.	This ordinance shall become effective and in full force at 12:00

midnight, 31 days after its adoption.

Section 2. Effective Date. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect 10 days following
certification of the vote by the City Council.

Section 3. The City Clerk shall certify the passage of this ordinance,
publish the same as required by applicable law, and forward a copy of the adopted
ordinance to the Board of Equalization.

Michael A. Montelongo
Mayor

ATTEST:

I BARBARA M. MERGAN, City Clerk of the City of Sanger, California,
do hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was introduced on a motion of

Councilmember______________________________ seconded by Councilmember , at a	regular

meeting of the Sanger City Council held on the___day of___________,	200_, and

was duly adopted by the Sanger City Council at a Regular Meeting of said City
Council on the_____day of_________,	200_, by the following roll call vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:

ABSTAIN:	COUNCILMEMBERS:

ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBERS:

Barbara M. Mergan, City Clerk

APPROVE AS TO LEGAL FORM:

David J. Weiland, City Attorney

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

If approved by a 2/3 majority of the voters of the City of Sanger, ballot
measure S would approve City of Sanger Ordinance 1094. adding Article VI to Chapter
66 of the Sanger City Code to add a special retail transactions and use tax of 0.75% in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division
2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of said Code.

A Transactions and Use tax is imposed on the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of tangible personal property sold at retail within the City limits. The
taxes will be collected and administered by the State Board of Equalization. The
revenue from the sales and use tax will be deposited into a special fund designated
exclusively for public safety for police and fire protection and emergency 9-1-1
services.

The collection of the tax shall be administered through the State Board of
Equalization in the same manner as the general sales tax.

The proposed Ordinance provides that the revenues generated shall be paid
into a special fund to be used exclusively for public safety services, which are defined
as: obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining police protection and fire
protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police and fire
protection personnel and related public safety services and capital expenses. None of
the tax revenues generated may be used for administrative salaries, other general fund
expenses or projects not a part of the Public Safety Measure Police and Fire
Expenditure Plan. The revenues are intended to supplement not replace existing
expenditure levels.

The propose Ordinance also requires a Citizen’s Oversight Committee to be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council, with
consultation with the Police Chief and Fire Chief. The Ordinance establishes term
limits for committee members and sets out their duties and responsibilities. The
committee shall review the expenditure of revenues generated and shall report at least
annually to the City Council.

If approved by a 2/3 majority of voters, the proposed Ordinance will become
effective 31 days following the election.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure S. If you desire a
copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the elections official's office at
(559) 876-6300, extension 1350 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

s/ David J. Weiland
Sanger City Attorney

R FR 004-009

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Concerned about crime? Make Sanger safer -- Vote YES on S.

Sanger is one of the fastest growing Fresno County cities, but police/fire services
haven’t kept up with growth. Calls for safety service have nearly tripled in 6 years.
Consider this:

There are as many as 10 suspected drug labs operating in Fresno County. There are
200 felon parolees and 400-500 active gang members and associates in Sanger.

Our nearest emergency room and trauma center is more than 20 minutes away.
Nearly 90% of the Fire Department’s 9-1-1 emergency calls are medical
emergencies—but only 11 of 21 firefighters are also paramedics.

Sanger 9-1-1 Dispatch Center is understaffed - more 9-1-1 operators are needed, for
rapid response.

YES on S reduces gang and drug-related crimes.

YES on S increases police presence in Sanger’s neighborhoods, parks and schools
while expanding community policing.

YES on S expands anti-aana/drua-prevention services for youth to fight the lure of
meth and gangs.

YES on S hires more firefighters and paramedics to respond to multiple emergencies
to get your loved ones to the ER, alive.

YES on S improves police/firefighter training and purchases protective clothing,
breathing apparatuses, and a new fire engine.

YES on S requires strong fiscal accountability requirements, such as mandatory
annual, independent financial audits and Independent Citizen’s Oversight. All funds
will be deposited into a separate Public Safety Fund to ensure money is spent as
promised to the community. Revenues are in addition to existing Public Safety
fundinq. Prescription medication and food purchased as groceries are exempt from
Measure S.

Other cities such as Clovis and Fresno are getting tough with gangs, but Sanger
doesn’t have enough resources to participate in countywide anti-gang programs.
Unless we do something, our crime will get worse. VOTE YES on S.

s/ Fred Sanders
President, Sanger Police Officers Association

s/ Fred Delano
Pastor, Sierra View Community Church

s/Jim Fleming
Retired Firefighter

s/Andrew Barraza
Pastor, Faith International Ministries

s/ Michael A. Montelongo
Mayor, City of Sanger

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS FILED

R FR 004-010