REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION B

Our opponents are 100% wrong. Read the objective title and summary, prepared by San Diego
County Counsel:

■	Proposition B will "preserve marine freight."

■	Proposition B guarantees all existing business and jobs will be protected, not
eliminated!

Proposition B. A visionary leap forward.

■	Take 90 under-utilized public acres of waterfront and thmst them into the center of a
dynamic 21s1 Century San Diego.

•	Open 90 prime waterfront acres for public use and to generate badly needed monies
for local government.

•	Open possible sites for a Chargers stadium, a world class aquarium, a new cruise ship
terminal, Convention Center expansion, public open space on the waterfront, a new
sports arena and concert venue, new convention hotels.

■	Create 10,000 badly needed parking spaces for the Convention Center, Petco Park and
the Gaslamp District.

No Taxpayer cost. All of this with NO public financing. No public bonds. No new taxes. No
ticket guarantees.

It's the law. Proposition B projects must meet strict engineering standards and all government
regulations (including Navy and Homeland Security) - or they will simply not be built.

Think boldly San Diego. Cities all over the world use “air rights" to unlock value, increase
revenues and boost their tax base. New York City's Park Avenue boasts 5 Star Hotels, luxury
apartments and Class A office buildings built on air rights above the rail yards leading to Grand
Central Station.

62,000 San Diegans signed
petitions

to put Proposition B on the ballot...

and the Opponents sued to deny us the right to vote.

FRANK GALLAGHER

San Diego Community Solutions

SHEILA SEAGRAVE
Non-profit Director

MALCOLM FRANKS. MBE
Retired CEO

KEITH BATTLE
Water Board Director

SCOTT BARNETT
President, TaxpayersAdvocate.org

PR-1010-5

N SD 618-050

CITY OF NATIONAL CITY
Proposition M

(This proposition will appear on tfie ballot in the following form.)

PROP M

Shall an ordinance be approved repealing Sections 4.60.010 through 4.60.180 of the
National City Municipal Code, in order to repeal an existing one percent transactions
and use tax (sales tax) which is used for City services, facilities and programs?

This proposition requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%)
of the voters voting on the proposition.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This ballot measure states that it shall be known as the "Repeal Proposition D Initiative".

SUMMARY OF PROPOSITION D

Proposition D was approved by a majority of those residents of National City who -voted on the
Proposition in the June 6, 2006 municipal election. Proposition D added Sections 4.60.010
through 4.60.180 to the National City Municipal Code, to provide for a one percent transactions
and use tax (commonly referred to as a "sales tax"). Pursuant to Proposition D, the one percent
sales tax is used for City services, facilities, and programs. The authority to levy the tax imposed
by Proposition D expires ten years from October 1, 2006 (the "Operative Date"), unless the City
Council prior to that date determines that the levy and collection of the tax is no longer necessary,
in which case the City Council has the authority to reduce the rate of tax, or tepninate the
imposition of the tax. Proposition D provides that every five years the Mayor, with the approval of
the City Council, shall appoint an independent committee comprised of three experts in financial
matters who will report their recommendation to the Mayor and City Council as to whether the
transaction and use tax should remain in effect at the rate of one percent, or whether the City
Council should reduce the rate of tax or terminate the imposition of the tax.

EFFECT OF PROPOSITION M
This ballot measure would repeal Proposition D, summarized above, in its entirety.

This ballot measure provides that its provisions are severable, so that if any provision of the
measure or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity
shall not affect other.provisions or applications.

This ballot measure provides that it may not be amended except upon voter approval. If the
measure is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure, it shall be considered
adopted upon the date that the vote is declared by the City Council, and shall go into effect ten
days after that date.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

THE PEOPLE OF THIS CITY OF NATIONAL CITY
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1.
SECTION 2.

SECTION 3.
SECTION 4.

This Initiative shall be known as the "Repeal of Proposition D Initiative".

Sections 4.60.010 through 4.60.180 of Chapter 4.60 of the Municipal Code of the
City of National City are hereby repealed.

If any provision of this measure or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
application, and to this end the provisions of this measure are severable.

This initiative may not be amended except upon voter approval.

PR-09J0-1

N SD 618-051

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION M

Repeal the National City Sales Tax Increase.

National City - with probably the lowest Income population In the county - now has the
highest sales tax rate in the state.

City politicians claimed the money was needed for public safety. But they really wanted the
money to pay city employees some of the richest pensions in the county!

Thirty-year National City employees get 90% of their highest pay as a pension - some retiring as
early as age 50 - while contributing little or nothing for their incredible retirement benefits.
Probably no business in California offers such a generous pension.

Politicians will threaten that, if we repeal this tax, they will fire many police and firefighters, putting
your family in danger. The ONLY options they present are either higher taxes or reducing critical
city services. They refuse to control the problem - the stunning high pay and fabulous pensions
paid to city employees.

The only way citizens can force politicians to control spending is voting to limit taxes. It's
OUTRAGEOUS that our low income city is burdened with the state's highest sales tax rate.

Shortly after this regressive sales tax increase passed, city politicians were negotiating with the
Chargers for a football stadium. Politicians gleefully admitted they could never have pursued this
project without the sales tax increase. Wait - we thought the money was for public safety!

To add insuit to injury, many If not most National City employees don't even live In National
City. They take their high salaries and wonderful pensions home with them. Such nonresident
city employees seldom pay National City taxes, or return their earnings to our local economy!

In this crushing recession, its time for government to cut back! Let's pay the same sales tax paid
in most other cities in the county.

Join with us. Vote YESI to repeal the 1% sales tax increase.

www.ReDealNationalCitvSalesTax.ora

JOHN O'NEILL

San Diego County

Taxpayers Association, Chairman

RICHARD RIDER

Chairman, San Diego Tax Fighters

EDWARD TEYSSIER
National City Business Owner

MICHAEL BENOIT
Chair of SD Libertarian Party

RANDOLPH A. MYRSETH

PR-09J0-2

N SD 61B-052

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION M

Vote NO on Proposition M - Keep National City Moving Forward

During the past two years, National City has launched new plans to rebuild and improve our city.

Since 2006, crime has been reduced, Plaza Bonita has been expanded, and new building
developments have started.

Proposition M would reverse our progress and endanger our city services

In 2006, National City voters approved a temporary 1-cent sales tax to help save our city.

During the past two years, that money has protected police and fire services by adding new police
officers and enhancing, life-saving fire and medical emergency services we need.

Proposition M would cut funding for police and fire protection, close parks, reduce library hours,
and stop redevelopment projects that will improve our city.

Proposition M is backed bv out-of-town political activists who have nothing to lose if National City
moves backwards.

Proposition M is OPPOSED by our local police, fire, school, and community leaders.

We need to work together to keep our city safe, clean, and growing towards a brighter future.
Please join us and VOTE NO on PROPOSITION M on November 4th.

ADOLFO GONZALES
Police Chief
National City

RODERICK JUNIEL
Fire Chief
National City

ALLIE PRUITT

Youth Program Coordinator

ALMA SARMIENTO GRAHAM
National School District
Board Member

PR-09J0-3

N SD 616-063