VENTURA

&

j

PRESIDENTIAL
GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2008

D

D*

and

Voter Information Pamphlet

AVISO / NOTICE

Se puede obtener una traduccion en espanol del folleto
de informacion para el votante, llamando al 654-2664.

A Spanish translation of voter information pamphlet is
available by calling 654-2664.

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR A VOTE BY
MAIL BALLOT ON BACK COVER

NOTICE

Your polling place
may have been

changed! See back
cover for pollinr
place Iocp*:

56-FC-E-12154 56-FC-E

	
MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS / MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS A LOS VOTANTES	
STATE/ESTADO	
ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES AND RENEWABLE ENERGY. BONDS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Authorizes $5 billion in bonds paid from state’s General Fund, to 1 IJ help consumers and others purchase certain vehicles, and to fund research in renewable energy and alternative fuel vehicles. Fiscal Impact: State cost of about * v $10 billion over 30 years to repay bonds. Increased state and local revenues, potentially totaling several tens of millions of dollars through 2019. Potential state administrative costs up to about $10 million annually.  VEHICULOS DE COMBUSTIBLE ALTERNATIVO Y ENERGIA RENOVABLE. BONOS. LEY POR INICIATIVA. Autoriza $5 mil millones en bonos a ser pagados con 1 IJ dinero del Fondo General del estado para ayudara consumidores yaotros a comprarciertos vehfculos y para financiarinvestigation en energfa renovable y vehfculos 1 v de combustible alternative. Impacto fiscal: Costos para el estado de unos $10 mil millones a lo largo de 30 anos para saldar los bonos. Mayores recaudaciones estatales y locales, con posibilidad de ascender a varias decenas de millones de dolares hasta el ano 2019. Posibles costos administrativos para el estado de unos $10 millones anuales.	
	YES/SI ^ ^
	NO/NO ^ ^
REDISTRICTING. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Changes authority for establishing state office boundaries from elected 1 1 representatives to commission. Establishes multilevel process to select commissioners from registered voter pool. Commission comprised of Democrats, Republicans, 1 1 and representatives of neither party. Fiscal Impact: Potential increase in state redistricting costs once every ten years due to two entities performing redistricting. Any increase in costs probably would not be significant.  REDISTRIBUCION DE LOS DISTRITOS ELECTORALES. ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL Y LEY POR INICIATIVA. Cambia la autoridad de establecer limites de 1 1 distritos electorales de representantes elegidos por votacion a una comision. Establece un proceso de multiples niveles para seleccionar comisionados de un grupo de 1 1 votantes inscritos. La comision estarfa formada por democratas, republicanos y representantes de ninguno de esos partidos politicos. Impacto fiscal: Posible aumento de los costos de redistribucion de los distritos electorales para el estado una vez cada diez anos porque la redistribucion serfa realizada por dos entidades. Los aumentos de los costos, si los hay, probablemente no sedan significativos.	
	YES/SI ^
	no/no ^ m
VETERANS’ BOND ACT OF 2008. This act provides for a bond issue of nine hundred million dollars ($900,000,000) to provide farm and home aid for California 1 O veterans. Fiscal Impact: Costs of about $1.8 billion to pay off both the principal ($900 million) and interest ($856 million) on the bonds; costs paid by participating • ™ veterans. Average payment for principal and interest of about $59 million per year for 30 years.  LEY DE BONOS DE VETERANOS DE 2008. Esta ley dispone una emision de bonos de novecientos millones de dolares ($900,000,000) para proporcionar asistencia ip a los veteranos de California para granjas y viviendas. Impacto fiscal: Costos de unos $1.8 mil millones para saldar el capital ($900 millones) y los intereses ($856 1 ™ millones) de los bonos; costos pagados por los veteranos participantes. Pago promedio del capital e intereses de aproximadamente $59 millones anuales por 30 anos.	
	YES/SI ^ ^
	no/no ^ m
SCHOOL/ESCUELA	
OJAI UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT / DISTRITO ESCOLAR UNIFICADO OJAI	
In order to maintain small class sizes, retain highly qualified teachers and staff, continue to offer fine arts programs (such as music, dance, and drama), maintain athletic P programs, avoid closure of schools and libraries, and continue to improve student proficiency in core curriculum, shall the Ojai Unified School District levy a tax of $89  *	per parcel annually for seven years with annual audits, 65 years and older exemptions, and independent citizens oversight?  Para mantener un numero pequeno de alumnos en los salones, retener a maestros y a personal sumamente competentes, continuar ofreciendo programas de bellas P artes (tal como musica, danza, y teatro), mantener programas atleticos, evitar la clausura de escuelas y bibliotecas, y continuar mejorando la aptitud estudiantil en el  *	plan de estudios nucleo, idebera el Distrito Escolar Unificado de Ojai imponer un impuesto de $89 por parcela anualmente por siete anos con auditorfas anuales, exenciones para los de 65 anos o mayores, y supervision por ciudadanos independientes?	
	YES/SI ^ ^
	NO/NO ^ Hi
COUNTY/CONDADO	
Shall an ordinance of the Ventura County Board of Supervisors be adopted prohibiting any person from serving more than three consecutive four-year terms as a T member of the Ventura County Board of Supervisors?  iDebera una ordenanza de la Mesa Directiva de Supervisors del Condado de Ventura ser adoptada prohibiendo a cualquier persona de servir mas de tres plazos T consecutivos de cuatro anos como miembro de la Mesa Directiva de Supervisors del Condado de Ventura?	
	YES/SI ^
	NO/NO ^ ^
	

Sample Ballot/

56SB7G

OJAI UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL*
MEASURE "P"

OJAI UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SUPPORT
OJAI SCHOOLS PARCEL TAX MEASURE

Under this measure, the Ojai Unified School District ("District") is submitting a
special parcel tax, described below, to the voters for approval. The tax will
become effective only if two-thirds (2/3) of the voters vote "Yes" on the measure.

The measure would authorize the District to levy a parcel tax of $89 per year
assessed against each parcel of taxable real property within the boundaries of
the District for seven (7) full years beginning December 1,2008.

The parcel tax shall be collected by the Ventura County Treasurer-Tax Collector
at the same time and in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as
ad valorem property taxes. Proceeds of the parcel tax shall be used to fund
school programs identified in the measure, including school and library
operations, teacher salaries, fine arts programs such as music, dance and
drama, athletic programs and core curriculum such as reading and mathematics.

Parcels that will be subject to the tax include any unit of real property in the
District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
Ventura County Treasurer-Tax Collector. Property that is otherwise exempt from
or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the parcel tax in such year. In addition, parcels owned and
occupied by persons 65 years of age or older may be exempt from the parcel tax
upon proper application for the exemption.

The measure requires that a separate account be created into which proceeds of
the parcel tax must be deposited and that the proceeds of the measure be
applied only to the purposes identified in the measure. In addition, a written
report must be made annually to the District's board showing the amount of
funds collected and expended from the parcel tax proceeds and the status of
projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds. The
measure also requires that an independent citizen’s oversight committee be
established by the District's board to advise the board on the expenditures
funded by the parcel tax and to ensure the funds are spent for the approved
purposes.

* Section 9500 of the California Elections Code requires the County Counsel to prepare an
impartial analysis for each school measure appearing on the ballot.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "P"

The children of the Ojai Valley deserve the outstanding education our public
schools currently provide. The Ojai Unified School District is facing a major
budgetary crisis. Deep State budget cuts, declining enrollment, and increasing
costs threaten to destroy the high quality of our children's education. For the past
several years, Ojai Unified has cut millions of dollars by decreasing
administrators, teachers, and support personnel. These cuts have been difficult,
but to date most cuts have been kept away from the classroom. Now the District
is at a point where all future cuts will directly impact our children's classroom
experience.

Unless we pass Measure P the District may be forced to:

Increase class size

Lay off teachers and support personnel
Reduce fine arts and athletic programs
Close school libraries and computer labs
Cut back on school safety and security programs
Close one or more elementary schools

Your YES VOTE on Measure P helps prevent these damaging cuts. It levies a
flat assessment of $89 per year on every parcel of land in the District for only
seven years. This investment maintains the quality of our valley and supports the
value of our homes. This locally raised money stays here to support our schools.
Sacramento can't touch it nor can they reduce District funding because this
money is in place. Property owners 65 years of age or older are exempted from
the assessment. An independent citizen's oversight committee will monitor all
expenditures and review the annual audit.

The passage of Measure P gives the District time to implement its long-range
budget plan to reduce expenditures reasonably. Please join us in supporting our
most treasured resource, the children of the Ojai Valley. Vote YES on
MEASURE P!

s/Steve Fields
President Ojai Unified School District Board

s/Timothy B. Baird, Ed.D.

Superintendent, Ojai Unified School District

s/Sue Horgan
Community Member

s/Michael D. Caldwell
Community Member

s/Dale Hanson
Local Realtor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

Ventura County (2) 32-34, 50-52, 64, 73-74, 144-146, 148

56-83

5683

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE "P"  OJAI UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SUPPORT OJAI SCHOOLS MEASURE  FINDINGS  The Ojai Valley community, The Board of Education, and the Ojai Unified School District (the "District") are committed to providing the best possible education to students at all levels. District student performance ranks among the best in the county in academics, fine arts, and athletic competitions.  According to the Governor's May Revision Budget for the 2008/2009 fiscal year, school funding is projected to be reduced significantly from the prior year funding level. Future year projections for school funding continue to show reductions in money allocated to school districts every year for the foreseeable future. Due to declining enrollment, rising costs, and the continuing underfunding of California public schools, the Ojai Unified School District has already cut millions of dollars from its budget.  In order to continue to meet the educational needs of the Districts students, to reduce the devastating impact of threatened State budget cuts, and to secure a stable local funding source for District schools, it is necessary to pass a parcel tax.  TERMS OF PARCEL TAX  Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $89 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District, for a period limited to seven years commencing December 1,2008.  Proceeds of the parcel tax shall be authorized to be used to provide financial support to school programs as follows:  -	Maintain small class sizes  -	Retain highly qualified teachers and staff  -	Continue to offer fine arts programs such as music, dance, and drama  -	Maintain athletic programs  -	Avoid closure of schools and libraries  -	Continue to improve student proficiency in core curriculum such as reading and mathematics  Senior Citizens' Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older, shall be exempt from the parcel tax upon proper application for the exemption. The exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the Board of Education or otherwise as required by law or by the Ventura County Tax Collector.  ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS  The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in order that the voters and taxpayers in the District may be assured that their money will be spent wisely. As required by the laws of the State of California, the proceeds of the qualified special tax will be deposited into a special account established by the District and will be applied only to the specific purposes identified above.  Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. The Board of Education shall establish an Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee to ensure that proceeds of the parcel tax are spent wisely and only for the purposes named in this measure. The Board of Trustees shall provide by resolution for the composition, duties, funding, and other necessary information regarding the Committee's formation and operation.  Annual Audit. The District has covenanted to file with its governing board each year a report stating the amount of the funds collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be funded.  Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute the specific purposes of the parcel tax, and proceeds of the parcel tax shall be applied only for such purposes.  SEVERABILITY  The Board of Education hereby declares, and the votes by approving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence, and clause of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found	by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

5684