
:*> IMPARTIAL-ANALYSfS OF MEASURE 0 ; ;

v-r'‘:-.S VJ' Prepared by-$ac^ambnb, City Attorn 3.-. ‘ ;; ;

Measure Q would enactan ordj nanpe that, replaces the existing
Telephone- Pser 'Tax w'^^	User.	Tax'1	The

Tefephbne ^^ User Tax ‘;ha| ^|een‘Teyied' oh .usrere of iarid-li rie tele-f
phone's; within'^	1969, In i.993,; fhe?tax

Wasetfendedtoinc|Q’dd-im>s^of^lular telephones.'; Under the.;
existing Telephone User Tax ordinance^ users of land-line‘and cel-
lular telephones are taxed, at^a -rate, of 7.5%. of their telephone-
s^Wicej charges'; whjle users Of^. communication services provided:
byCewer'^	,/y x-

Measure'O would reduce the tax;rate by one-half of one percent
dnd-expand the .sco'peOfcommunication services' subject to the
ta^.(Mqreepa^dally^ if’enacted, i^eas^re^Q;yybyld; reduce^the tax
rate currently paid by users of.'land-line and cellular telephones
frorn 7.5%,to 7%; while users ofbther comihunication seiyices riot
bUhBntiy'taxed;woul'ff'be.s.ubj^tto'a tax,.	/i: .

.Measure 0%ould cevise the definitions bf communications servic-
es subject to the tax, to intlude new and emerging technologies,
and;td;be techriolb^-heutral soihat ail commuoications services,
ihcluding; those>provided through traditional, land-line telephone,
wireless^ and ,broadband:.seryices/'are -treated, uniformly. For
example, the tax;wpul<ii apply to.users of voice, audio, video, and
data:seivices.- such as Voice; Over Internet Protocol (VoIP), text
merging,;and instaritib^saglhg,' regardless of the tephn^

'inclydingf'6y public switched; network,
fibehp^cycoaxial cable, power line, broadband . digital subscriber
line;,1 and;VVlfele^''^qsmIs®l6n.- .It would also apply to upers/of
ancilla|y.telecdmnlunica&	such	as	ybice. niessaging,

directory assistance, and^ .Oonferenca-bridging services, pertajn
of these'services may .already be. subject to .the tax: depending
upon hoW ' the'taxpayer’s telephone provider billsXft>r services.
Measure O Would"'not tax. internet access, email, or. downloads erf
digital;products,; .r

AdditiopaJJy, Measure6would requjrethe Cjty.to perforniannual
independent aud jts ?to;.verify .that tax. revenues are, properly
expended: It also'would continue the existing tax refund.prograrn
for. low-income residentis. Finally, Measure 0 would, prohibit tax
rate increases without voter approval.

A “yfes” vote is ,in fpvor of .enacting the'Communications User Tax
ordinance: A “ho" .vote is. against enacting the ordinance/ and
would leave iri ’effect the. existing Telephone User Tax.' A majority
of “yes’!: votes- is required for the ordh be enacted; : C '

:	FULL TEXT OF MEASURE O -

, v......	ORDINANCE NQL 20Q 3-036 . : ’ ;	!

-MiiL ' •> .Adopted by the Sacramento Qity Council^

■	-dune:1.T;206&	«>	>	■'

AH ORDINANCE AMENDING AND RESTATING SECTION
3,32.030, AND REPEALING SECTION 3.32.040, OF CHAPTER
3.32, TITLE 3 OF THE SACRAMENTO^ItY CODE RENAMING
THE TELEPHONE. USER TAX AND APPLYING IT FAIRLY TO
CURRENT AND EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES, AND TO
DEDUCE THE TAX RATE " / -	‘	;

BE IT ENACTED' BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SACRA-
MENTO: _Vy>-	''roAv

SECTION 1 :A	'•	:V.	.>■

This^ ordinance, amends and.;restates, section . 3.32.030, and
repeais ,sectiprj.''3’.3i2.04;0, .of the Sacramento City Code, .and is
made effective by voter approval of the Utility User Tax Reduction
And Fairness Measure'. V ' : ' /	.

SECTIONL2



BACKGROUND ,	,	;	-

A.	the City.otSacramento, established a telephone user.tax in

1.969 for chargeb^An telephone services, extended ,that tax in 1993
to include .cellular and wireless telephone service, and has levied
and collected a Utility User Tax on those services, and the current
tax rate is-f.5%. .	.	•••..

B.	Telephony and related communications services have
changed dramatically, in. recent decades; communications .techr
nology^ telephone calling and marketing plans and state and fed-.
Oral legislation continue to evolve" at a rapid pace. s ■

C.	In . particular, jrammunicatiohs. a^ no longer- accomplished
Shtirbiy through, the 'switched, network. Wireless service has
become; prevalent,, .communications through ofh'er> means are
increasing in .popularity, the overall cost of communications is
deciining, commQn cliafges are no jbnger Based upon distance,
andthe.federai government has. been extremely active. in; adopt-
ing laws affecting the telecommunications industry. . 1 .. ... ;.

D.	Updating the City's tax on communications services to include

curfent'and emerging technologies arid reflect the realities of the
^current communications industry require voter approval under the
California Constitution:	./v."V

E.	The CiV;desires to treatusers of Communications services in

a uniform and equitable mariner, regardless of the means of trans
mission or. technology used,! so: that useqsof .communications
services transmitted., by tradjtionaL technologies (such as tele-
phone land lines) da notbear a greater tax burden than users of
commuriications services transmitted via newly developed tech-
nologies, , v .	...

F/ thb.City desires' to reduce the. tax rate on bommunicatiphs
seri/ices from 7-5% to 7% under the COrnmunications UserTax

g’ The telephone User Tax contained refunds for low income per-
sons and the. Cityrdesires to continue those refunds in the
Comriiunieations User Tax. -!..	;	'	•	.

H. The Communipations User Tax; will require .annuarfiriancial
audits of tax. expenditures and will /equire ^votef approval of
increases totheCommunicatiohsUse^ Tax. *	'	•	V

t. A measure is proposed for piacement.on-the November 4,:2008
ballot that would give, effect t6:ihi8^>rdinance; reducIng/thelUfiliW

v .

;j|

'L|!|.

\ . ill!

$

l

iO

I

Ballot Type 01,9 Page 27

www.elections.saccounty.net

User Tax on communications' services and apply it fairly to ail
communications users..	:

j. This Communications User Tax shall not apply to charges for*
the portion of cable or video television services that are subject to
a cable or video television franchise fee. .

K. The City depends upon the revenue generated by the
Communications' User Tax to continue providing essential City
services such as police, fire protection and youth programs.

SECTION 3	,	:

Section 3.32.030 of the Sacramento City Code is amended arid
restated to read as follows:

Section 3:32.030 Communications User Tax, v

A' There is imposed, a tax upon every Person with a billing or
service address in the City, other than a Public Agency, who uses
intrastate, interstate or international Communications Services, to
the maximum extent permitted by state and federal law. The tax
Imposed by this section shall be aft’he rate of seven percent of the
charges for such services and shall be paid by the. Person paying
for such services.

B.	The following words and phrases whenever used in this sec-
tion shall be construed as defined herein:

1.	"Ancillary Telecommunications Services" means services
that are associated with or incidental to the provision, Use or
enjoyment of Communications Services, including but not limited
to the following services: Conference Bridging Service, Detailed
Telecommunications Billing Service, Directory Assistance Service,
Vertical Service, and Voice Mail Service.

2.	"Communications Services" means the transmission, con-
veyance, or routing of voice, audio, video, data or any other com-
munications information or signals to a point, or between or*
among points, whatever the technology used, .and whether or not
that information is transmitted through interconnected service with
the public switched network, or through fiber optic, coaxial cable,
power line transmission, broadband connections or technologies,
digital subscriber line or other wired technology or any wireless
transmission. The term "Communications Services" includes
transmission, conveyance, or routing in Which computer process-
ing applications are used to act on the form, .code or protocol of
the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether those services are referred to as voice
over internet. protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the
Federal. Communications Commission as enhanced or value
added, and includes video or data services that are .functionally
integrated with Communications Services. Communications
Services include but are not limited to the following services,
regardless of the manner or basis on which those services are cal-
culated or billed: central* office and custom calling features
(including but not limited to call , waiting, cal! forwarding, caller
identification and three-way calling); local number portability; text
messaging; instant messaging; Ancillary Telecommunications
^Services; prepaid and post-paid telecommunications services
(including but not limited to prepaid calling cards); Mobile
Telecommunications Services; Private Communications Services;
paging services; Video Services; 800 service (or any other toll-
free numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission); and 900 service (or any other similar numbers des-
ignated by the Federal Communications Commission for services
whereby subscribers call in tq pre-recorded or live service).
Communications Services does not include either digital down-
loads such as e-mail or’digital products such as books, music,
ringtones, games arid similar digital products, or that portion of
cable or video television services subject to a cable or.video tele-
vision franchise fee.

3.	"Communications User Tax" means the tax imposed by this

section.	v

4.	"Conference Bridging Service" means an ancillary service
that links two or more participants of an audio or video conference
call, and may include the provision of a telephone number.
Conference bridging service does not include the’ telecommunica-
tions services used to reach the conference bridge.

5.	"Detailed Telecommunications Billing Service" means an
ancillary service of separately stating information pertainirig to
individual calls on a customer's billing statement.

6.	"Directory Assistance Service" meqns an ancillary service
of providing telephone number information or address informa-
tion. ,

7.	"Mobile Telecommunications Services" shall have the same .■
meaning and usage as set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications'
Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations thereun-
der.

8.	"Private Communications Services" means any dedicated
Communications Services that entitle the user to the exclusive or
priority use of communications channels.

9.	"Tax Administrator" means the Director of Finance of the City
of Sacramento or his or her designee.

10.	"Vertical Service" means an ancillary service that is offered
in connection with one or more telecommunications services,
which offers advanced calling features that allow customers to
identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections,
including conference bridging services.

11.	"Video Programming" means those programming services
commonly ^provided to subscribers by a Video Service Supplier
including but not limited to basic services, premium services,
audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on
demand, origination programming, or any other similar services,
regardless of the content of such Video Programming, or the tech-
nology used to deliver such services, and regardless of the man-
ner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed.

12.	"Video Services" means Video Programming arid any and
all services related to the providing, recording, delivering, use or
enjoyment of Video Programming (including origination program-
ming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and
IP-Video) using one or more channels by a Video Service
Supplier, regardless of the technology used to deliver, store or
provide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on
which such services are calculated or billed, and includes ancillary
video services, data services, telecommunication services, or
interactive communications services that are functionally integrat-
ed with. Video Services.

13.	"Video Service Supplier" means any person that provides
or sells one or more channels of Video Programming, or provides
or sells the capability to receive one or more channels of Video
Programming, including any telecommunications that are ancil-
lary, necessary or common to the provision, use or enjoyment of
the Video Programming, to or from a business or residential
address in the City, where some fee is paid, whether directly or
included in dues or rental charges .for that service, whether or not
public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the Video
Programming or telecommunications. A Video Service Supplier,
includes, but is not limited to, multi-channel Video Programming
distributors (as defined in 47 U.S.C. section 522(13)); open video
systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television; mas-
ter antenna television; satellite master antenna television; multi-
channel multipoint distribution services (MMDS); Video Services

County of Sacramento	,	'	www.elections.saccounty.net

■ '	Ballot	Type	019	Page	2&

User Tax on communications services and apply it fairiy to all
communications users.

J.	This Communications User Tax shall nbt apply to charges for'
the portion of cable or video television services that are subject to
a cable or video television franchise fee.

K.	The City depends upon the revenue generated by the
Communications User Tax to continue providing essential City
services such as police, fire protection and youth programs.

SECTION 3	,	;

Section 3.32.030 of the Sacramento City Code is amended and
restated to read as follows:

Section 3.32.030 Communications User Tax. '■

A: There is imposed a tax upon every Person with a billing or
service address in the City, other than a Public Agency, who 'uses
intrastate, interstate or international Communications Services, to
the maximum extent permitted by state and federal law. The tax
imposed by this section shaii be af the rate of seven percent of the
charges for such services and shall be paid by the. Person paying
for such services.

B. The following words and phrases whenever used in this sec-
tion shall be construed as', defined herein:

1.	"Ancillary Telecommunications Services" means services
that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or
enjoyment of Communications Services, including but not limited
to the following services: Conference Bridging Service, Detailed
Telecommunications Billing Service,. Directory Assistance Service,
Vertical Service, and Voice Mail Service.

2.	"Communications Services" means the transmission, con-
veyance, or routing of voice, audio, video, data or any other com-
munications information or signals to a point, or between or
among points, whatever the technology used, and whether or not
that information is transmitted through interconnected service with
the public switched network, dr through fiber optic, coaxial cable,
power line transmission, broadband connections or technologies,
digital subscriber line or other wired technology or any wireless
transmission. The term "Communications Services" includes
transmission, conveyance, or routing in Which computer process-
ing applications are used to act on the foirm. code or protocol of
the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether those services are referred to as voice
over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the
Federal: Communications Commission as enhanced or value
added, and includes video or data services that are functionally
integrated with Communications Services. Communications
Services include but are not limited to the following services,
regardless of the manner or basis on which those services are cal-
culated or billed: central' office and custom calling features
(including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller
identification and three-way calling); local number portability; text
messaging; instant messaging; Ancillary Telecommunications
Services; prepaid and post-paid telecommunications services
(including but not limited to prepaid calling cards); Mobile
Telecommunications Services; Private Communications Services;
paging services; Video Services; 800 service (or any other toll-
free numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission); and 900 service (or any other similar numbers des-
ignated by the Federal Communications Commission for services
whereby subscribers call in to pre-recorde.d or live service).
Communications Services does not include either digital down-
loads such as e-mail or digital products such as books, music,
ringtones, games and similar digital products, or that portion of
cable or video television services subject to a cable or. video tele-
vision franchise fee.

3.	"Communications User Tax" means the tax imposed by this

section.	v

4.	"Conference Bridging Service" means an ancillary service
that links two or more participants of an audio or video conference
call and may include the provision of a telephone number.
Conference bridging service does not include the telecommunica-
tions services used to reach the conference bridge.

5.	"Detailed Telecommunications Billing Service" means an
ancillary service of separately stating information pertaining to
individual calls on a customer's billing statement.

6.	"Directory Assistance Service" means an ancillary service
of providing telephone number information or address informa-
tion.

7.	"Mobile Telecommunications Services" shall have the same,
meaning and usage as set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications’
Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations thereun-
der.

8.	"Private Communications Services" means any dedicated
Communications Services that entitle the user to the exclusive or
priority use of communications channels.

9.	"Tax Administrator" means the Director of Finance of the City
of Sacramento or his or her designee.

10.	"Vertical Service" means an ancillary service that is offered
in connection with one or more telecommunications services,
which offers advanced calling features that allow customers to
identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections,
including conference bridging services.

11.	"Video Programming" means those programming services
commonly-provided to subscribers by a Video Service Supplier,
including but not limited to basic services, premium services,
audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on
demand, origination programming, or any other similar services,
regardless of the content of such Video Programming, or the tech-
nology used to deliver such services, and regardless of the man-
ner or basis bn which such services are calculated or. billed.

12.	"Video Services" means Video Programming arid any and
all services related to the providing, recording, delivering, use or
enjoyment of Video Programming (including origination program-
ming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and
IP-Video) using one or more channels by a Video Service
Supplier, regardless of the technology used to deliver, store or
provide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on
'Which such services are calculated or billed, and includes ancillary
video services, data services, telecommunication services, or
interactive communications services that are functionally integrat-
ed with Video Services.

13.	"Video Service Supplier" means any person that provides
or sells one or more channels of Video Programming, or provides
or sells the capability to receive one or more channels of Video
Programming, including any telecommunications that are ancil-
lary, necessary or common to the provision, use or enjoyment of
the. Video Programming, to or from a business or residential
address in the City, where some fee is paid, whether directly or
included in dues or rental charges .for that service, whether or not
public rights-oif-way are utilized in the delivery of the Video
Programming or telecommunications. A Video Service Supplier,
includes, but is not limited to, multi-channel Video Programming
distributors (as defined in 47 U.S.C. section 522(13)); open video
systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television; mas-
ter antenna television; satellite master antenna television; multi-
channel multipoint distribution services (MMDS); Video Services

Ballot Type 019 Page 28

www.elections.saccounty.net

| using internet protocol .(e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video), that provide,
v among other things, broadcasting and video bn demand), direct
I broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its
4 video services, now or in the future; and other suppliers of Video
Services (including two-way communications), whatever their
technology.

14.	"Voice Mail Service" means an ancillary service that enables
the customer to store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice
Mail Service does not include any Vertical Services that the cus-
tomer may be required to have to utilize the Voice Mail Service.

C.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the
Service User by the Person providing the intrastate, interstate or
international Communication Services. The amount of tax collect-
ed in one month shall be remitted to the City collector on or before
the last day. of the following month. The amount on which the tax
is. based shall be the sum of all charges for such services includ-
ed in the bill; except that if a non-taxabie service and a taxable
service are billed .together under a single charge, the entire
charge shall be deemed taxable unless the Service Supplier or
Service User reasonably identifies actual charges for services not
subject to tax. The Service Supplier or Service User seeking a
reduction has the burden of proving the proper valuation and
apportionment of taxable and non-taxabie charges based upon
books and records that are kept in the regular course of business
and in a manner consistent with generally accepted accounting
principles.

D.	Charges subject to the Communications User Tax include all
amounts billed to the Service User for Communications Services,
unless such charge is otherwise exempt from the tax as provided
in this- section or under state or federal law. Such charges include
but are not limited to the following: connection, reconnection, ter-
mination, movement, or change of Communications Services; late
payment fees; detailed billing; Voice Mail Service and other mes-
saging services; Directory Assistance Service; access and line
charges; universal service charges; and regulatory, administrative
and other cost recovery charges.

E.	Mobile Telecommunications Services shall be sourced in
accordance with the sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124). The
Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to Service Suppliers
who are subject to the tax collection requirements of this section,
sourcing rules for the taxation of other Communications Service,
including but not limited to prepaid. Communications
Services, post-paid Communications Services, and Private
Communications Services, provided that such rules are based
upon custom and common practice that further administrative effi-
ciency and minimize multi-jurisdictional ■ taxation. The . Tax
Administrator may also issue and disseminate to Communications
Services suppliers who are subject to the tax collection require-
ments of this section, an administrative ruling identifying those
Communications Services, or charges therefor, that are subject to

. the tax of subsection A. This administrative ruling shall not impose
a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology as stated in this
section, or increase an existing tax, except as allowed by
California Government Code section 53750(h)(2)(A).'

F.	The following shall be exempt from any tax imposed by this
section:

1. News services. No tax shall be imposed under this section,
except with respect to local telephone.service, on any payment
received from any Person for services used in the collection of
news for the public press, or a news ticker service furnishing a
r- general news service similar to that of the public press, or radio

broadcasting, or in the. dissemination of news through the public
press, or a news ticker service furnishing a general news service
similar to that of the public press, or by means of radio broadcast-
ing, if the charge for such service is billed in writing to such per-
son.

2.	International organizations. No tax shall be imposed under this
section on any payment received for services furnished to a pub-,
lie international organization in which the United States partici-
pates pursuant to treaty or Act of Congress, or to the American
National Red Cross.

3.	Servicemen jn combat -zone. No tax shall be imposed under
this section1 on any payment received for any Communications
Services which originates within a combat zone from a member of
the Armed Forces of the United States performing service in such
combat zone, as defined in and determined under Section 1t2 of
Title 26 of the United States Code.

4.	items otherwise taxed. Only one payment of tax under this sec-
tion shall be required" with respect to the tax on any
Communications Services.

5.	Common carriers and communications companies. No tax shall
be imposed under this .section on the amount paid for any
Communications Services described in this section, to the extent
that the amount so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone
or telegraph company, or radio broadcasting station or network in
the conduct of its business as such.

6.	Nonprofit hospitals. No tax shall be imposed under this sec-
tion on any amount paid by a nonprofit hospital for
Communications Services furnished to such organization. For
purposes of this subsection, the term "nonprofit hospital" means a
hospital referred to in Section 170(b)(l)(A)(iii) of Title 26 of the
United States Code, that is exempt from federal income tax under
section 501(a) of Title 26 of the United States Code.

7.	Exemption for nonprofit educational organizations. No tax shall
be imposed under this section on any amount paid by a nonprofit,
educational organization for services or facilities furnished to such
organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term "nonprofit
educational organization" means an educational organization
described in Section 170(b)(l)(A)(ii) of Title 26 of the United States
Code, that is exempt from federal income tax under section 501(a).
of Title 26 of the United States Code, including a school operated
as an activity of an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of
Title 26 of the United States Code that is exempt from federal
income tax under section 501(a), if such school normally main-
tains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regular-
ly enrolled body, of pupils pr students in attendance at the place
where its educational activities are regularly carried on.

G.	To prevent actual multiple taxation of Communications
Services that are subject to tax under This section, any Service
User, upon proof that the Service User owed and has paid a tax
in another taxing jurisdiction on the Communications Services,
shall be allowed a credit agajnst the tax imposed in Subsection A
to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the
other taxing jurisdiction. However, no credit may be allowed for
any tax paid to another taxing jurisdiction on any Communications
Services to the extent that the Communications Services may not,
under .the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made
the subject of taxation by the other taxing jurisdiction. Nor shall
the amount of credit exceed the tax owed to the City under this
section.

H.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to col-
lect and remit a tax under this section, "substantial nexus" and
"minimum contacts" shall be construed broadly in favor of the

County of Sacramento	www.elections.saccounty.net

.	Ballot	Type	019	Page	29

imposition, collection and/or remittance of the Communications
User Tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law,
and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or
by statutory enactment. Any Communications Services used by a
Person with a service or billing address in the City shall be sub-
ject tp a rebuttable presumption that "substantial nexus/minimum
contacts" exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a
duty to collect and remit a tax,' tender this' section. For
Communications Services for which there is no billing address or
primary physical location for the provision of services, the service
address shall mean the point of sale of the'services.

I.	Amendment or Repeal. The Communications User* Tax
imposed by this Section may be decreased^ repealed or amend-
ed by the City Council, but may not be increased without a vote of
the people as required in California Constitution Article XlflC arid
California Government Code Section 53750(h).

J.	Audit of Communications User Tax. The City shall annually
audit the Communications User Taxes imposed by this Section to
verify that tax revenues have been properly expended in accor-
dance with the law. The annual audit shall be performed under.the
direction of the. Director of Finance-by a qualified independent
third party employing reasonable, cost-effective procedures.

-SECTION 4

Section 3.32.040 of the Sacramento City Code is repealed.
SECTION 5	.

Low-Income Refund. This ordinance does not change the existing
low-income citizen tax refund program as provided for under
Section 3.32.170 of the Sacramento City Code.

SECTION 6	’	.

Severability. If any portion of this ordinance is for arty reason held
to be invalid or unenforceable .by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the remaining portions of this ordinance,shall remain in effect. The;
people of the City of Sacramento hereby declare that they would
have adopted each portion of this ordinance, notwithstanding the
fact that any.one or more portions of this ordinance is declared
invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this
ordinance are severable. If this ordinance is declared to be invalid,
then the provisions of Sections 3.32.030 and 3.32.040, as those
Sections read on October 4, 2006, will become, effective.

SECTION 7

Majority Approval; Effective Date. This ordinance shall be effec-
tive only if approved by a majority of the voters voting on this ordi-
nance and shall go into effect ten days after the vote is declared
by City Council.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

Measure O is vital to protecting an existing revenue’source for
police and fire protection services, youth programs, park mainte-
nance and other city services. This measure was placed on the bal-
lot to update the city’s 40-year old Utility User Tax (UUT) to keep up
with technological changes related to wireless and phone services
and to comply with new laws'. .

The definitions in Sacramento’s UUT have become outdated. As a
result, users of landlines and cell phones pay the UUT, but uSers of
newer technologies do not. Moreover, because of the way certain
terms are defined, this tax is legally vulnerable, putting $12 million
of existing city revenue at risk. .	.

The good news for city residents is the city is proposing to reduce
the fax rate that is charged on communications services, while

fashioning a fairer UUT by making it technology-neutral for all users.

Sacramento Police Chief Rick Braziel says, “Measure O will keep
police officers on the street and maintain funding for city programs
that help kids stay in school and out of gangs.”

Measure O includes provisions that require annual, independent
audits and. prevent future increases without voter approval. The
measure also continues the existing tax refund program for low-
income residents.

Because technology is changing so rapidly and because of new
laws, nearly two dozen Califbmia cities have updated their UUT
ordinances, since 2006. Without Measure O, Sacramento’s UUT
will become even more unfair and outdated with the passage of
time.. . '	'

Sacramento must act now to protect revenue generated by this
source, which can’t be raided by the state Legislature to help bal-
ance state budget deficits/

Vote Yes on Measure 6 to make sure funding for essential city serv-
ices is protected.

s\ Heather Fargo
Mayor, City of Sacramento

s\ Steve Cohn

Vice Mayor and Council Member, District 3	*

City of Sacramento .

v*»

s\ Jed Kircher,

City VP, Local 522, Sacramento Area Firefighters
s\Azizza Davis Goines

President /CEO, Sacramento Black Chamber of Commerce
sYJoseph T. Debbs

Community-Supporter	*

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASUREO

The communication tax paid by most Sacramento households
could increase as much as triple under Measure O! Yet the City
pitches Measure O as a “tax reduction” and “fairness” measure!.
What’s “fair” about misleading people to vote for a gigantic tax
increase by calling it a reduction?

The. City says Measure O protects “existing revenue” that is “legal-
ly ^vulnerable." if only the City were content with its steadily growing
existing revenue, we wouldn’t oppose Measure O!

But Measure O adds new taxes on: Internet communication; text
messaging; instant messaging; photo and data sharing; voicemail;
paging; toll-free numbers; custom features; and future technologies,

. all “to the maximum extent permitted by state and federal law.”

The City says it needs the “existing revenue" to maintain police, fire,
and youth programs. So just ask voters to approve the existing rev-
enue! Don’t threaten police and fire to bully voters int<? a huge-
increase!	-	■

Whafs planned for the additional millions in new revenue Measure
O will transfer from us to the government? Pay raises for the gov-
ernment unions? Notice the unions are campaigning for Measure

O! ' ■	'•

Modem society and business depend on communication. Why
should human communication be taxed “to the maximum extent?"

With family incomes declining and the cost of basic necessities sky-
rocketing, now is not the time for a greedy tax increase, it’s inhu-
mane. '

County of Sacramento	www.elections.saccounty.net

Ballot Type 019 Page 30

If the City recovered the millions "misplaced" in recent scandals, it
could propose a modest measure limited to existing revenue. Send
Measure O back for revision. Vote No!

Ken Payne, President, Sacramento County Taxpayers League

Tim Bittle, Director of Legal Affairs
Howard Jairvis Taxpayers Association

Roger Niello, California State Assemblymember

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

Don’t befooled! The City wants you to believe Measure O is a tax
reduction, but really it’s a huge tax increase!

Taxpayers recently sued the City for taxing cell phone calls with-
out voter approval. Instead of a refund, the City put Measure O.
on the ballot.

But Measure 6 wouldn’t Just tax ceil phone calls. In its greed, the
City would also tax the following: Internet communication; Text
messaging; Instant messaging; Photo, video and data sharing;
Voicemail; Paging; Toll-free numbers (like 800); Custom features
(like Caller ID) and; All future technologies

Measure O proposes to tax communication “to the maximum
extent permitted by state and federal law.” Is that why we elected
our City Council?, To Impose maximum taxes on our right to “free”
speech? -	’	■

the City boasts that Measure O will lower the tax rate from 7.5%
to 7.0%. So the average household will save 250 on its land line.
Big deal! But if your household also has 2 cell phones and a com-
puter, think how much Measure O will increase the total dollars
you send to the City!

This tax Is regresisive. That is, it represents a higher percentage
of a low income family budget than that of a rich family.
'So expanding this tax hurts seniors, single moms, and low income
families. With food and gas costing more, should we raise taxes
too? Have some pity!

The City says it needs this tax for police and fire. Why do they
always threaten police and fire? The news reported scandals
where the City’s utilities and libraries can't account for millions in
missing funds. There’s your money for police and fire!

Tell the City to start accounting for the money we already give,
instead of demanding more. Measure O is too greedy, VOTE NO!

s\ Ken Payne, President, Sacramento County Taxpayers League

s\ Jon Coupal, President, Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE O

There is no disagreement that Measure O lowers the'city’s Utility
User Tax rate for communications users. The issue is whether the
city’s‘40-year old UUT needs to be updated to keep up with tech-
nological changes related to wireless and. phone services and to
comply with new laws. Rather than spend more taxpayer funds
fighting about the issue in court, we believe it is smarter to seek
. voter approval to bring the law up to date.

Would it be fair to impose the gas tax .on drivers of a 1969 Chevy
but not drivers of a 2008 Prius? We don’t think so. The city’s UUT
currently applies to landline and cell phone services but not to
newer technologies. We don’t think that's fair either, but without
Measure O that's the law.	.

Don’t be fooled: Measure O would merely, update the city’s UUT
like voters in 23 other cities have recently modified theirs. Not
only would Internet access, emails and digital downloads be
exempted from the tax, but Measure ,0 offers refunds to low-
income residents.

If Measure O fails to pass, the city could lose $12 million a year,
which currently provides essential funding for police and fire pro-
tection services, youth programs, park maintenance and other city
services. Passage of Measure O means that the .tax rate will be
reduced and cannot be increased in the future without voter
approval. Our community needs a "ye.sB vote on Measure O.

Betty Perry, Public Policy Director, Older Women’s League-CA
Jay Schenirer, Chair, Mayor’s Commision on Youth .

Rick Jennings, CEO, Center for Fathers and Families •

Russell Fehr, City Treasurer	.	.	•	'

Ray Jones, Fire Chief, City of.Sacramento








