

PROPOSITION O

Ordinance submitting to the voters an ordinance amending the
Business and Tax Regulations Code by: (1) repealing Article 10A,
Sections 750-770, to eliminate the Emergency Response Fee; (2) add-
ing Article 10B, Sections 780-786, to add an Access Line Taxreplace
the current Emergency Response Fee with a general tax at the same
rates and with the same exemptions: (2) repealing Article 10A. Sections
750-770. to eliminate the existing Emergency Response Fee: (3)
amending Article 10 by adding Sections 721,722, and 723, amending
Sections 701, 703, 707.1, and 708, and repealing Sections 702 and
707.3, all to modernize and update the Telephone Users Tax without
changing the tax rate or exemptions; and (4) amending Article 6,
Section 6.1-1, to make conforming changes; and ratifying past collec-
tion of the Telephone Users Tax and the Emergency Response Fee.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman.

Deletions are strikethrough italics Times New Roman.

Be it ordained that pursuant to Article XIIIC of the Constitution of
the State of California. the Board of Supervisors hereby submits this
ordinance to the qualified electors of the City and County of San
Francisco. at the November 4. 2008 general municipal election.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. Findings.

(a) Repeal of-Replacing the Existing Emergency Response Fee
and Enactment of an Access Line with a General Tax.

(1)	Since 1993, the City and County of San Francisco has imposed
on telephone access lines an Emergency Response Fee (“ERF”) to fund
improvements to and operation of the City and County’s 911 communi-
cation system.

(2)	The ERF ordinance includes complex provisions to ensure that
ERF revenues fund only “eligible project costs.”

(3)	To ease administration and provide budgetary flexibility, the
City and County desires to replace the ERF with a general tax, the access
line tax (“ALT”), that would supply general fund revenues that could
support emergency services, as well as other essential City services.

(4)	To minimize disruption and confusion, the City and County
desires to apply the ALT in the same manner as the ERF was applied.

(5)	The ALT will be imposed at the current ERF monthly rates:
$2.75 per access line, $20.62 per trunk line, and $371.15 per high capac-
ity trunk line. Future increases should be limited to the inflation rate.

(6)	As under the ERF, low-income telecommunications customers
who receive discounted “Lifeline” telecommunications service are
exempt from the ALT.

(b) Update of Modernizing the Telephone Users Tax.

(1)	Since 1970, the City and County of San Francisco has col-
lected a Utility Users Tax on charges for telephone communications
services (Telephone Users Tax or TUT).

(2)	Telephone communications services have changed dramati-
cally since 1970. Technology, carrier marketing plans, and federal and
state regulation have changed significantly and continue to do so.

(3)	The TUT should be modernized and clarified to include cur-
rent technologies, accommodate future technologies, and reflect current
marketing and regulatory realities. Updating the TUT will ensure that
users of various telephone communications services are treated equitably,
regardless of the technology used.

(4)	Updating the TUT in this way requires voter approval.

(5)	The TUT rate will remain at 7.5%.

(6)	Under an ordinance approved by voters in 1987, residential
use of wireline (but not cellular or other wireless) communications ser-
vice is exempt from the TUT. The updated TUT continues this exemp-
tion.

(7)	The other existing exemptions from the TUT will also con-
tinue.

(8)	The updated TUT will not apply to video programming ser-
vices; digital downloads, such as music, video. books, ringtones and
games; and Internet access services that federal law excludes from tax.

Section 2. Article 10A of the San Francisco Business and Tax
Regulations Code, Sections 750-770, imposing the Emergency Response
Fee (ERF), is hereby repealed in its entirety.

Section 3. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code
is hereby amended by adding Article 10B, Sections 780 through 786, to
read as follows:

ARTICLE 10B: ACCESS LINE TAX

SEC, 780, PURPOSE.

The tax imposed and levied by this Article is intended to
provide revenue for such general fund services as may he determined hy
the Board of Supervisors including, without limitation, police, fire, and
emergency services.

SEC, 78L DEFINITIONS.

When used in this Article. the following terms shall have the fol-
lowing meanings:

(a)	Access Line. “Access line” means any connection or channel.
whether by wire or by wireless technology. that provides access to a from
a customer location to a provider of telephone communications service
network.services offered to the public for compensation. “Access line”
includes the assignment of a 10-digit telephone number under the North
American Numbering Plan for the purpose of providing telephone com-
munications services, including without limitation voice over Internet
protocol telephone communications services, using such telephone num-
ber.

(b)	Billing Address. “Billing address” has the meaning given in
Article 10 of this Code.

(c)	High Capacity Trunk Line. uHigh capacity trunk line ” shall
mean a trunk line with a capacity of at least 24 channels over a high
capacity service, such as a 1.544 Mb. T-l.or Integrated Services Digital
Network (ISDN) Primary Rate Interface (PRI) line.

38-CP258-EN-N08

38-CP258-EN-N08

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION O

(d)	Lifeline Service. “Lifeline service” means discounted tele-
phone communications service available to eligible low income residen-
tial customers.

(e)	Prepaid Calling Service. “Prepaid calling service” means
the right to access telephone communications service, which must be
paid for in advance and which enables the origination of calls using an
access number or authorization code. whether manually or electroni-
cally dialed. and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which
the number declines with use in a known amount. without the provision-
ing of an access line.

(f)	Post-paid Calling Service. “Post-paid calling service ” means
the telecommunications service obtained hy making a payment on a call-
hy-call basis either through the use of a credit card or payment mecha-
nism such as a bank card, travel card. credit card. or debit card. or by
charge made to a telephone number which is not associated with the
origination or termination of the telecommunications service without the
provisioning of an access line.

(gj_Service Address. “Service address” has the meaning given

in Article 10 of this Code.

(fi(h) Telephone Communications Service. “Telephone commu-
nications service” has the meaning given in Article JO of this Code.

(g)	(i)_Service Supplier, “Service supplier ” means any person

supplying an access line to any telephone communications service sub-
scriber within the City and County of San Francisco or the hilling agent
of any such person.

fhfQX___Telephone___Communications Service Subscriber,

“Telephone communications service subscriber” means any person
required to pay a tax under this Article.

U\(k) Trunk Line. “Trunk line” means a line between a service
supplier's switching device and a private branch exchange or automatic
call distributing system, or other similar device, at a telephone commu-
nications service subscriber location, provided however that “trunk
line” shall not include any such line which is marketed to customers and
configured hy the service supplier to deliver only calls to the subscriber
location and cannot he used hy the subscriber to originate outgoing calls
from the subscriber location (e.g.. direct inward dial lines).

SEC. 782. IMPOSITION OF ACCESS LINE TAX.

(a}_There is hereby imposed a tax as provided in this article on

every person who subscribes to telephone communications services
within the City and County of San Francisco. to the extent permitted hy
federal and state law. The tax shall apply to each access line within the
city's tax jurisdiction, including, without limitation, access lines hilled to
a telephone account having a situs in the city. as permitted hy the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act. 4 U.S.C. § 116 et seq. There is a
rebuttable presumption that service hilled to a hilling address or pro-
vided to a service address in the city is used. in whole or in part, within
the city’s boundaries and that such service is subject to taxation under
this article. The tax shall not apply to a prepaid calling service or a
post-paid calling service.

(b)	The amount of the tax imposed by this section shall be paid,
on a per-access-line basis, by the person paying for telephone communi-
cations service: however, no telephone communications service sub-
scriber shall be required to pay more than $55.000 in tax per account per
service location in any calendar year. The cost of wireless telephone
communications services shall not be considered for purposes of this
subsection (b). The cap established by this subsection shall be adjusted
annually in accordance with the increase in the Consumer Price Index:
All Urban Consumers for the San Francisco / Oakland / San Jose Area
for All Items as reported by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics,
or any successor to that index. as of December 31st of each year, begin-
ning with December 31. 2009. and such increase shall take effect when
1) notice of the increase is given by the Controller in the manner gener-
ally used hy the Controller for notification offee or tax changes and 2)
such increase is approved by the Mayor and Board of Supervisors by
resolution.

(c)	Only one payment of the tax shall be required for any access
line. trunk line or high capacity trunk line, notwithstanding that access
lines of more than one person are used in furnishing telephone commu-
nications service to a telephone communications service subscriber.

SEC, 783, EXEMPTIONS,

Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon
the access lines of:

(a)	A customer receiving Lifeline service: or

(b)	A service supplier: or

(c)	Coin-operated telephones; or

(d)	A nonprofit hospital which is exempt from federal income tax
under Section 501(a) of the United States Code: or

te}_A nonprofit educational organization which is exempt from

income tax under Section 501(a) of the United States Code: or

(fl_Any person when imposition of such tax upon that person

would violate the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of
Cali fornia or preemptive federal or State law.

SEC, 784, TAX SCHEDULE,

The amount of the tax shall be $2.75 per month per access line.
$20.62 per month per trunk line and $371.15 per month per high capac-
ity line. These amounts shall be adjusted annually in accordance with
the increase in the Consumer Price Index: All Urban Consumers for the
San Francisco / Oakland / San Jose Area for All Items as reported bv the
United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, or any successor to that index,
as of December 31st of each year, beginning with December 31. 2009.
and such increase shall take effect 1) when notice of the increase is given
by the Controller in the manner generally used by the Controller for
notification of fee or tax changes and 2) such increase is approved by the
Mayor and Board of Supervisors by resolution.

SEC, 785, COLLECTION QF TAXt

(a}_The tax imposed by this Article shall be collected from the

telephone communications service subscriber by the service supplier.

(b)	The tax required to be collected by service suppliers under
this ordinance shall be added to and stated separately as the uSan
Francisco Access Line Tax” in the service supplier's billings to telephone
communications service subscribers. The charge identified as the San
Francisco Access Line Tax in such billings shall include only the amount
authorized by this Article, and shall not include any additional charges
or fees which may be imposed by the service supplier to recover the cost
of collecting the tax.

(c)	Nothing in this Article is intended to regulate the ability of a
service supplier to recover any costs of collecting the tax imposed under
this Article, to the extent such that recovery may be authorized by state
or federal law.

(d)	Except as otherwise stated in this Article, the tax imposed by
this Article shall be collected and remitted at the same time as and in the
same manner as the tax imposed by Section 703 of Article 10.

SEC. 786. ADMINISTRATION OF TAX..

Except as otherwise stated in this Article, the tax imposed by this
Article shall be administered in the same manner as the tax imposed by
Section 703 of Article 10.

Section 4. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code
is hereby amended by adding Sections 721, 722, and 723, amending
Sections 701,703,707.1, and 708, and repealing Sections 702 and 707.3,
to read as follows:

SEC. 701. ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.

When used in this Article, the following terms shall mean or include:

(a)	“Ancillary Telephone Communications Services” shall mean
services associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment
of telephone communications services, including but not limited to:

(1)	Services that link two or more participants in an audio or

38-CP259-EN-N08

259

38-CP259-EN-N08

video conference call and that may include the provision of a tele-
phone number,

(2)	Services that provide telephone number information. and/or
address information, or any other information that may assist in
contacting another party via a telephone communications ser-
vice.

(3)	Services offered in connection with one or more telephone
communications services which offer advanced calling features
that allow customers to identify callers and to manage multiple
calls and call connections.

14J_Services that enable customers to store, send or receive

recorded messages including. without limitation, voice mail ser-
vices.

(5) Services related to listing telephone communications service
customer information in. or excluding such information from, a
directory or database.

(6}_Services that provide customer billing information in a

detailed or alternative format.

(b)	uBilling Address” shall mean the mailing address to which a
telephone communications service supplier submits invoices or bills for
payment by a service user.

(c)	(d4 “Electrical corporation,” “gas corporation,” and “telephone
corporation” shall have the same meanings as defined in Sections 218,
222 and 234, respectively, of the Public Utilities Code of the State of
California.

(d)	“Residential Telephone Communications Service ” shall mean
telephone communications service by a fixed line. wire or cable to a
residential service address and includes voice over Internet Protocol
(VoIP) service that cannot be used at locations other than the service
user's residential service address. Residential telephone communica-
tions service excludes mobile telephone communications services includ-
ing mobile VoIP service.

(e)	“Paging Service" shall mean a telephone communications
service that provides transmission of coded radio signals for the purpose
of activating specific pagers: such transmissions may include messages
and/or sounds.

(f)	“Service Address " shall mean the street address of a service
user's primary place of usage.

g)(d) “Service User” shall mean a person required to pay a tax
imposed under the provisions of this Article.

fg4(h)(b) “Service Supplier” shall mean any person required to
collect a tax imposed under the provisions of this Article.

(b)(ij(e) “Steam Corporation” shall mean and include every “heat
corporation,” as defined in Section 224 of the Public Utilities Code of the
State of California, using steam to deliver heat.

fi3(i)(e) “Telephone Communications; Services” shall mean access
to a telephone system and the privilege of telephonic-quality communica-
tions with substantially all persons having telephone or radio telephone
stations which arc part of such telephone system. -Telephone communi-
cation services" shall not include land mobile services or maritime
mobile services as defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, as said Section existed on January 1, 1970.
Notwithstanding this exclusion, “telephone communication services''
shall include cellular telephone and enhanced specialized mobile radio
communication services.—the transmission. conveyance, or routing of
voice. data, audio. video, or any other information or signals to a point,
or between or among points, whatever the technology used. including
without limitation wire, fiber optic. coaxial cable. power line transmis-
sion. lightwave. laser, microwave, radio wave, satellite or any other form
of wireless transmission, or any other technology now existing or devel-
oped after the adoption of this section. and whether or not such informa-
tion is transmitted through interconnected service with the public

switched network.___Telephone communications service includes such

transmission, conveyance. or routing in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content
for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to
whether such service is referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP)

service or is classified by the Federal Communications Commission as
enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data services that
are functionally integrated with telephone communications service.
Telephone communications service includes without limitation the fol-
lowing services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such ser-
vices are calculated or billed: ancillary telephone communications ser-
vices; mobile telephone communications service; paging service; and
toll-free service800 service. Telephone communications service does not
include: internet access services to the extent they are exempt from taxa-
tion under the Internet Tax Freedom Act, 47 U.S.C. 151 note; video
programming services: and digital downloads, such as downloads of
books. music. video. ringtones. games and similar digital products.

(j)	(M_“Telephone communications service supplier" shall mean

any person who provides telephone communications service to a user of
such service within the City, including, without limitation, use outside the
City which is within the City's tax jurisdiction under the Mobile

Telecommunications Sourcing Act. 4 U.S.C. § 116 et seq._The term

includes anv person required to collect or remit the tax imposed by
Section 703, including the billing agent of such person.

(k)	(Mf) “Water Corporation” shall mean and include every cor-
poration or person including the City and County owning, controlling,
operating or managing any water system for compensation within the
State of California.

(mi____“800 Service" shall mean a telephone communications ser-

vice that allows a caller to dial a toll-free number without incurring a
charge for the call. “800 service'' includes without limitation services
marketed as u800." u855." “866." u877." and u888" toll-free calling,
and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission.

SEC. 702. INTERPRETATION OF TELEPHONE USERS TAX.

(a)	—Since 1970, the City and County of San Francisco has col-
lected a Utility Users Tax (<LUUT’j on telephone communication ser-
vices. The City levies the UUT under the City's inherent powers as a
charter city. Since 1992, the tax rate has been 7.50 percent (7 1/2%).

(b)	—When first adopted, the UUT referenced the Federal Excise
Tax, 26 United States Code §-4251 ( “FET") as such Section existed on
the effective date of the City's-Ordinance. The FET applies, by its terms,
to “local” and “toll" telephone services.

(e)—The UUT referredrto the FET for the purpose of identifying
the types of telephone communication services that were subject to the
UUT and the types of service s-that were exempt from the UUT. The refer-
ence to the FET also provided-a convenience to telephone service provid-
ers, who were able to bill end use customers based on an existing tax
base. The FET was not a basis or authority for the City's imposition of
the UUT.

(d)	—In 1979, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 79-404, which pro-
vided that toll telephone servtee that was billed based only on time was
subject to the FET. Revenue Ruling 79-404 was consistent with the City's
intent to apply the UUT to tod-telephone service, regardless of how car-
riers elected to bill for such service. The IRS reaffirmed Revenue Ruling
79-404 in Notices issued in 2904 and 2005.

(e)	On May 25, 2006, -the United States Treasury Secretary issued
Revenue Notice 2006-50, announcing that the Internal Revenue Service
(“IRS") would no longer interpret the FET to apply to toll telephone
service that was billed on the-basis on time only, and not on the basis of
both time and distance. Revenue Notice 2006-50 reversed 27 years of
administrative interpretation -and practice of the IRS as it related to toll
telephone service. As a result-of Revenue Notice 2006 50, the IRS no
longer interprets the FET to apply to toll calls billed on the basis of time
only, and to certain other “bundled” services.

(fi—The City will continue to apply its UUT to all types of tele-
phone communication services-, including toll service, as it has histori-
cally and consistently done.

(f)	—The City will continue to recognize and retain the exemptions
that existed in the FET prior to-Revenue Notice 2006 50:

38-CP260-EN-N08

38-CP260-EN-N08

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION O

(h) The City will not apply the UUT to any telephone communica
tion services that were not subject to the UUT prior to the issuance of
Revenue Notice 2006-50.

(4)—These amendments do not increase the tax or create a new tax
on telephone communication services.

(j)—The procedure to refund any tax, interest or penalty that has
been overpaid or paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illc
gaily collected or received by the City is set out in Business and Tax
Regulations Code, Article 6, Common Administrative Provisions, Section
6.15-1, Refunds. The amendment to Section 714 clarifies that the refer
ence to uthis Code” in Section 714(a) refers to this process. It insures
that the process of presenting a UUT claim is consistent with the required
claims process for tax refunds in Section 6.15-1-

SEC. 703. TELEPHONE USERS TAX.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person, other than
a telephone corporationcommunications service supplier. using intra-
state telephone communication services in the City and County. The tax
imposed by this Section shall be on the charges made for such services,
including minimum charges for services. The tax imposed by this Section
shall be paid by the person paying for such services, who uses telephone
communications service in the city, including intrastate, interstate, and
international telephone communications service, to the extent permitted
by federal and state law. The telephone users tax shall apply to all
charges for telephone communications service within the city’s tax juris-
diction, such as charges billed to a telephone account having a situs in
the city as permitted by the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act of
2000. 4 U.S.C. $ 116 et seq. There is a rebuttable presumption that tele-
phone communications service billed to a billing address or provided to
a service address in the city is used, in whole or in part, within the city’s
boundaries and that such service is subject to taxation under this article.
There is also a rebuttable presumption that a telephone communications
service sold within the city that is not billed to a billing address or pro-
vided to a primary physical location in the city is used. in whole or in
part, within the city’s boundaries and that such service is subject to taxa-
tion under this article.

(b)	As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall not include
charges for services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated tele-
phones, except that where such coin-operated telephone service is fur-
nished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee
plus any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be included in the
base for computing the amount of tax due; nor shall the term u charges”
include charges for any type of service or equipment furnished by a ser-
vice supplier subject to Public Utility regulation during any period in
which the same or similar services or equipment are also available for
sale or lease from persons other than a service supplier subject to Public
Utility regulation. The Telephone User Tax is intended to, and does,
apply to all charges billed to a telephone having a situs in the City and
County, irrespective of whether a particular telephone call originates
and/or terminates within the City and County. In addition, effective
September 1, 1993, the Telephone Users Tax is intended to, and does,
apply to charges for cellular telephone service or enhanced specialized
mobile radio communication service, when the service user has a billing
address in the City and County, include without limitation: charges for
activation, connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change
of telephone communications service: late payment fees: access and line
charges. whether or not imposition of such charges is mandated or
authorized by a regulatory agency: universal service charges and any
other charges designed to assist in expanding access to telephone com-
munications service; and regulatory, administrative and other cost
recovery charges. The term “charges” shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consid-
eration provided by the service user in exchange for telephone communi-
cations service.

(c)	The tax imposed by this Section shall be collected from the
service user by the person providing the communications services tele-
phone communications service supplier. The amount of the tax collection

in one month shall -be remitted to the Tax Collector on or before the last
day of the following month.

(d)	The following shall continue to be exempt from the tax
imposed by this section:

(1)	Residential telephone communications service;

(2)	Any person or entity that is exempt from the tax imposed by
this section under Article 6 or its successor:

(3)	Service paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated tele-
phones available to the public with respect to local telephone
service, or with respect to long distance telephone service if
the charge for such long distance telephone service is less
than 25 cents: except that where such coin-operated tele-
phone service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the
amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly
or other periodic charge shall be subject to the tax.

(4)	News services. No tax shall be imposed under this section,
except with respect to local telephone service, on any pay-
ment received from any per son for services used in the collec-
tion of news for the public press, or a news ticker service
furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public
press, or radio broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news
through the public press, or a news ticker service furnishing
a general news service similar to that of the public press, or
b v means of radio broadcasting, if the charge for that service
is billed in writing to that person.

(5)	International, etc., organizations. No tax shall be imposed
under this section on any payment received for services fur-
nished to a public international organization in which the
United States participates pursuant to treaty or Act of
Congress, or to the American National Red Cross.

(6)	Servicemen in combat zone. No tax shall be imposed under
this section on any payment received for any toll telephone
service, which originates within a combat zone, as defined in
Section 112 of Title 26 of the United States Code, from a
member of the Armed Forces of the United States performing
service in the combat zone, as determined under Section 112
of Title 26 of the United States Code.

(7)	Items otherwise taxed. Only one payment of tax under this
section shall be required with respect to the tax on any ser-
vice. provided, however, that a person claiming exemption
under this section shall bear the burden to prove the city
actually received the earlier payment of tax on that service.

(8)	Common carriers and telecommunications companies. No
tax shall be imposed under this section on the amount paid
for any telephone communications service to the extent that
the amount so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone
or telegraph company, or radio broadcasting station or net-
work in the conduct of its business.

(9)	Installation charges. No tax shall be imposed under this sec-
tion on any amount paid for the installation of any instru-
ment. wire, pole, switchboard, apparatus, or equipment as is
properly attributable to the installation.

(10)	Nonprofit hospitals. No tax shall be imposed under this sec-
tion on any amount paid by a nonprofit hospital for services
furnished to that organization. For purposes of this exemp-
tion. the term “nonprofit hospital” means a hospital referred
to in Section 170(b)(l)(A)(iii) of Title 26 of the United States
Code, which is exempt from federal income tax under Section
501(a) of Title 26 of the United States Code.

(11)	State and local governments. No tax shall be imposed under
this section upon any payment received for services or facili-
ties furnished to the government of any State, or any of its
political subdivisions, or the District of Columbia.

(12)	Nonprofit educational organizations. No tax shall be
imposed under this section on any amount paid by a non-
profit educational organization for services or facilities fur-
nished to that organization. For purposes of this exemption.

38-CP261-EN-N08

38-CP261-EN-N08

the term “nonprofit educational organization” means an
educational organization described in Section 170(h)(1)(A)
(MX of Title 26 of the United States Code, which is exempt
from federal income tax under Section 501(a) of Title 26 of
the United States Code. The term also includes a school
operated as an activity of an organization described in
Section 501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the United States Code. which
is exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(a) of
Title 26 of the United States Code, if that school normally
maintains a regular facility and curriculum and normally has
a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance
at the place where its educational activities are regularly car-
ried on.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (a), the tax imposed under
this Section shall not be imposed upon any person for using intrastate
telephone communication services to the extent that the amounts paid for
such services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed under
Section 4251 of Title 26 of the United States Code, the Federal
Communications Excise Tax, as such section existed on August 28,1970,
and as such section was interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service
prior to Revenue Notice 2006-50.

(e)	To prevent actual, multiple taxation of any telephone commu-
nications service subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon
proof that the service user owed and has paid a tax in another taxing
jurisdiction on the telephone communications service, shall he allowed a
credit against the tax imposed by this section to the extent of the tax
properly due and paid in the other taxing jurisdiction. However. no
credit may he allowed for any tax paid to another taxing jurisdiction to
the extent that the telephone communications service may not legally be
made the subject of taxation by the other taxing jurisdiction, nor shall the
amount of credit exceed the tax owed to the City under this section.

69__If a non-taxable service and a taxable service are billed

together under a single charge, the entire charge shall he deemed taxable
unless the telephone communications service supplier or taxpayer rea-
sonably identifies actual charges for services not subject to the tax. The
telephone communications service supplier or taxpayer seeking a reduc-
tion has the burden of proving the proper valuation and apportionment
of taxable and non-taxable charges based upon books and records that
are kept in the regular course of business and in a manner consistent with
generally accepted accounting principles.

SEC. 707.1. UTILITY USERS TAX EXEMPTION.

(a)	No tax shall be levied upon residential telephone communica-
tions service or upon the use in the City and County of San Francisco by
residential customers of telephone communication services, electrical
energy or gas, water or steam which is delivered through mains or pipes
or of any other utility service after June 30,1988.

(b)	For the purposes of this Section, “residential customer” shall
mean any customer paying for the utility service at a residential or
domestic rate consistent with the rate schedule set by the California
Public Utilities Commission or any other rate-making authority.

(c)	This Section was adopted by the voters of San Francisco at
the November 3, 1987 election and may be amended only by the vote of
the electorate.

SEC. 7073. INTERSTATE TELEPHONE USERS TAX.

Commencing August 1,1992, the tax set forth in Section 703 (tele-
phone users) and Section 7072, in addition to being imposed upon per-
sons using intrastate telephone communication services, shall also be
imposed upon every person, other than a telephone corporation, using
interstate or international telephone communication services in the City
and County. The tax imposed on the interstate or international telephone
communication services shall be collected from the service user by the
person providing such services. The amount of the tax collection in one
month shall be remitted to the Tax Collector on or before the last day of
the following month.

SEC. 708. COLLECTION OF TAX.

(a)	Unless prohibited by the laws of the United States or the State
of California, or exempted by the provisions of this Code, every person
using telephone communications services. electrical, water gas or steam
services in this City and County shall be required to pay the tax imposed
in this Article and Article I OB herein to the service supplier along with
the charges made for such services. This obligation is not satisfied until
the tax has been paid to this City and County, except that a receipt indi-
cating payment of the service charges from a service supplier maintain-
ing a place of business in this City and County or from a supplier who is
authorized by the Tax Collector to collect the tax shall be sufficient to
relieve the service user from further liability for the tax to which the
receipt refers.

(b)	Every service supplier maintaining a place of business in this
City and County, and providing telephone communications services.
electrical, water gas or steam services to a service user, not exempted
under this Code shall, at the time of collecting the charges made for such
services from the service user, also collect the tax imposed hy this Article
and Article 10B from the service user and on demand shall give to the
service user a receipt therefor. In all cases in which the tax is not col-
lected by the service supplier, as aforesaid, the service supplier shall be
liable to the Tax Collector of the City and County for the amount of the
tax due on the amount of taxable rertPservice charges collected from the
occupant service user under the provisions of this Article and Article JO
B, the same as though the tax were paid by the service user. In all cases
of transactions upon credit or deferred payment, the payment of tax to the
Tax Collector may be deferred in accordance therewith, and the service
supplier shall be liable therefor at the time and to the extent that such
credits are paid or deferred payments are made in accordance with the
rate of tax owing on the amount thereof.

The Tax Collector shall have the power to adopt rules and regula-
tions prescribing methods and schedules for the collection and payment
of the tax and such methods and schedules shall eliminate fractions of
one cent.

(c)	The taxes imposed by this Article and Article 10B shall be
collected, insofar as practicable, at the same time as and along with the
collection of charges made in accordance with the regular billing practice
of the service supplier. If the amount paid by a service user is less than
the full amount of the charges and tax which has accrued for the billing
period, a proportionate share of both the charges and the tax shall be
deemed to have been paid.

Where a person receives more than one billing, one or more being
for different periods than another,-t-The duty to collect shall arise sepa-
rately for each billing period for which a service supplier bills a service
user.

(d)	The Tax Collector may issue administrative rulings identifying
telephone communications services that are subject to the taxes imposed
by section 703 of this article and article 10B. Such rulings shall be con-
sistent with legal requirements and shall not impose a new tax, revise an
existing tax methodology, or increase an existing tax, except as allowed
by California Government Code section 53750(h)(2) and (3) or other
law. To the extent that the Tax Collector determines that the taxes
imposed under Section 703 or Article 10B shall not be collected in full
for any period of time, such a determination falls within the Tax
Collector’sprosecutorial discretion to settle disputes. The Tax Collector \s
exercise of such forbearance under this section does not constitute a
change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code section
53750(h). and the city does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose
the taxes imposed by Section 703 or Article 10B in full as a result of such
determinations and may suspend such determinations and recommence
enforcement of the taxes without additional voter approval.

(e)	A service supplier shall be obligated to collect and remit the
tax imposed by Section 703 of this Article and Article 10B if it is “engag-
ing in business within the City ” as described in Article 6. Section 6.2-
12L

38-CP262-EN-N08

38-CP262-EN-N08

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITIONS O AND P

SFC. 72L EFFECT QF STATE AND FEDERAL AUTHORIZA-
TION.

To the extent that the city \s authorization to impose or collect any
tax imposed under Section 703 of this Article or Article 10B is expanded
or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law. no amendment
or modification of Section 703 or Article JOB shall be required to con-
form the taxes to those changes, and the taxes shall be imposed and col-
lected to the full extent of the city’s authorization up to the full amount of
the taxes imposed under Section 703 and Article 10B.

SEC. 722. AMENDMENT OF ORDINANCE.

Article 6. Article 10 and Article 10B of the Business and Tax
Regulations Code max be repealed or amended by the Board of
Supervisors without a vote of the people except as follows: as required
by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution ( uProposition 218”). any
amendment that increases the amount or rate of tax beyond the levels
authorized by this Ordinance may not take effect unless approved by a

vote of the people._The Board of Supervisors may impose the taxes

authorized by Section 703 and Article 10B in any amount or rate which
does not exceed the amount or rate approved by the voters.

SEC. 723. SEVERABILITY.

If any section. sentence. clause. phrase, or portion of Article 6.
Article 10 or Article I OB is for any reason held to be invalid or unen-
forceable bv a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections.
sentences, clauses, phrases. or portions of these Articles shall nonethe-
less remain in full force and effect. The people of the City and County of
San Francisco hereby declare that they would have adopted each section,
sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of these Articles, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or por-
tions of these Articles be declared invalid or unenforceable and, to that
end, the provisions of these Articles are severable.

Section 5. Section 6.1-1 of the San Francisco Business and Tax
Regulations Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

SEC. 6.1-1. COMMON ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.

(a)	Except where the specific language of the Business and Tax
Regulations Code or context otherwise requires, these common adminis-
trative provisions shall apply to Articles 6, 7, 9, 10, -WA, JOB. 11, 12,
12-A and 12-B of such Code. Any provision of this Article 6 that refer-
ences or applies to Article 10 shall be deemed to reference or apply to
Article JOB.

(b)	Unless expressly provided otherwise, all statutory references
in this Article and the Articles set forth in Subsection (a) shall refer to
such statutes as amended from time to time and shall include successor
provisions. For purposes of collecting the Emergency Response Fee
under Article 10A, any reference to a “tax” in this Article shall include
the Emergency Response Fee where appropriate; provided, however that
nothing in the operation of this provision shall affect the underlying legal
character of the Emergency Response Fee or suggest that the fee is a

(c)	For purposes of this Article, a domestic partnership estab-
lished pursuant to Chapter 62 of the San Francisco Administrative Code
shall be treated the same as a married couple.

Section 6. This Ordinance does not change the existing rate of any
tax imposed under the Business and Tax Regulations Code.

Section 7. The voters of the City and County of San Francisco
hereby ratify and approve the past collection of the Telephone Users Tax
under Article 10 of the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code, as enacted by Ordinance 287-70 and as subsequently amended,
including without limitation, the amendments effected by Ordinance
224-06. The voters of the City and County of San Francisco hereby
ratify and approve the past collection of the Emergency Response Fee
under Article 10A of the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code, as enacted by Ordinance 419-93 and as subsequently amended.

Section 8.

(a)	Service suppliers obligated to collect and remit the taxes
imposed bv Section 703 of Article 10 or Article 10B of the San Francisco
Business and Tax Regulations Code shall implement any changes
required by this Ordinance in accordance with California Public Utilities
Code Section 799. The Treasurer and Tax Collector may, in his or her
sole discretion, reimburse service suppliers for any one-time costs they
may incur to implement any changes required by this Ordinance, subject
to the fiscal provisions of the San Francisco Charter.

(b)	This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a major-
ity of the voters voting thereon. This Ordinance, except Section 2. and
shall go into effect ten (10) days after the official vote count is declared
by the Board of Supervisors. Section 2 of this Ordinance, repealing
Article 10A of the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code,
shall go into effect on the date that is 120 days after the official vote
count is declared. The Treasurer and Tax Collector may, by administra-
tive ruling. set an earlier date for Section 2 of this Ordinance to go into
effect.

PROPOSITION P

Ordinance amending the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code by amending Section 1404 to change the composition of the San
Francisco Transportation Authority, and to declare it City policy
that the Authority: maximize efficiency by having staff functions for
the Transportation Authority performed, to the extent practicable,
by agencies and departments of the City and County; maximize fis-
cal accountability by obtaining expert financial review before adop-
tion of Authority budgets; and, maximize public accountability by
adopting the ethics and public records laws that apply to the City
and County.

Note:	Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman:

deletions are strikethrough italics Times New Roman.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code
is hereby amended by amending Section 1404, to read as follows:

SEC. 1404. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITY.

(a) Beginning at noon on February 1. 2009. the governing body
of the Transportation Authority shall consist of the Mayor, one elected
official of the City and County of San Francisco designated by the Mayor.
the president of the Board of Supervisors, one elected official of the City
and County designated by the president of the Board, and the Treasurer.
The Mayor, the President of the Board of Supervisors, and the Treasurer
each may designate another elected City official to serve as her or his
alternate on the governing body of the Transportation Authority.

The tenure of the members of the governing body of the Authority
holding office on February 1. 2009 shall expire at noon of that dav. and
the members shall not hold over in office. The new members selected
pursuant to subsection (a) shall take office at that time. Upon voter
approval of this ordinance, the Authority shall continue in effect as cur
rcntly constituted. The Authority shall have all of the powers set forth in
Division 12.5 (commencing with Section 131100) of the Public Utilities
Code, all of the powers set forth in the New Transportation Expenditure
Plan, and all powers incidental or necessary to imposing and collecting
the tax and administering the tax proceeds and the Plan, and causing and
overseeing the delivery of the transportation improvements therein con-
tained. The Authority may allocate and reallocate the tax proceeds to
meet project cash flow needs consistent with all the provisions of the
Plan. In the event a project is infeasible, the Authority shall reallocate the
tax proceeds for that project to other projects in accordance with the
provisions of the Plan.

38-CP263-EN-N08

263

38-CP263-EN-N08

PROPOSITION O

Shall the City replace the Emergency Response Fee with an Access Line Tax at the same
rates and with the same exemptions, and revise the Telephone Users Tax?

Digest

by the Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The City imposes an Emergency Response
Fee on each telephone line. This fee is deposited in the 911
Emergency Response Fund and may only be used for costs to oper-
ate and improve the City's 911 system. In other cities, emergency
response fees have been legally challenged as taxes and not fees.

In addition, the City collects a utility users tax on charges for tele-
phone communication services (Telephone Users Tax). The
Telephone Users Tax does not apply to residential landline ser-
vices. It also does not apply to certain other services.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition O would replace the Emergency
Response Fee with a general tax (Access Line Tax) at the same
rates and with the same exemptions. Revenue from this tax would
go to the City's General Fund.

Proposition O would also revise the Telephone Users Tax to:

• Define "telephone communications services" to include cur-
rent and future technologies for telephone communications,
including voice over internet protocol (VOIP) services, and

• Give examples of the types of charges subject to this tax,
including charges for conference calls, voicemail, and call
waiting; activation, termination, and late payment fees; and
universal service charges.

Proposition O would continue the Telephone Users Tax exemption
for residential landline services. Certain other services would also
continue to be exempted.

Proposition O would also state that voters approve the City's past
collection of the Telephone Users Tax and the Emergency
Response Fee.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote "yes," you want the City to
replace the Emergency Response Fee with the Access Line Tax at
the same rates and with the same exemptions, and to revise the
Telephone Users Tax.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote “no,” you do not want the City
to make these changes.

Controller’s Statement on “O”

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the following state-
ment on the fiscal impact of Proposition O:

Should the proposed ordinance be approved by the voters, in my
opinion, it would have a minimal impact on the cost of government.

The proposal would replace the current emergency response fee
(the 911 fee) charged to phone customers with a general access
line tax. The current 911 fee rate is $2.75 per month per phone line,
with higher rates on commercial lines, and generates approxi-
mately $42 million annually. These revenues are budgeted for
costs associated with the City’s emergency response (911) service.
The replacement tax would be at the same rates with the same
exemptions and is projected to generate the same amount of rev-
enue. These revenues would be available for any public purpose.

The proposal would also update and modernize the City’s tele-
phone users tax, which generates approximately $40 million annu-
ally. The telephone users tax rate is 7.5% of the cost of services
billed, and exempts residential and certain other users. The pro-
posal does not change the tax rate or the exemptions. The pro-
posal would modernize the tax to specifically apply to new and
future technologies that over time are expected to replace a por-
tion of current telephone services, such as non-residential voice

over internet protocol and other emerging types of communication
services. The projected tax revenue amount will not significantly
change over time, because while emerging services would be
subject to the tax, these services are likely to replace classic tele-
phone services which are gradually decreasing.

The California Court of Appeal recently decided that a similar
emergency response fee is a special tax which requires voter
approval under the state constitution. Also, changes to telephone
user taxes made without voter approval have been legally chal-
lenged in some other California cities. Voter approval of the pro-
posed measure would confirm the City’s continued and future
collection of these revenues.

How “O” Got on the Ballot

On July 29, 2008 the Board of Supervisors voted 11 to 0 to place
Proposition O on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

Yes: Supervisors Alioto-Pier, Ammiano, Chu, Daly, Dufty, Elsbernd,
Maxwell, McGoldrick, Mirkarimi, Peskin and Sandoval.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 50%+1 AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE 258.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE 61.

38-CP183-EN-N08

PROPONENTS ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION O

SAVE 9-1-1. NO NEW TAXES. VOTE YES ON O

What do you do in an emergency? You dial 911. Emergency
response is the most important service our city government pro-
vides.

Today, it’s our 911 system that faces an emergency.

A recent court ruling has jeopardized the funding source that
San Francisco uses to provide 911 services. At risk is San
Francisco’s Emergency Response Fee, created after the tragic
1993 shootings at 101 California Street.

The Emergency Response Fee is the lifeline for our 911 service.
It has enabled San Francisco to centralize 911 Police, Fire and
EMS dispatch functions and dramatically improve our ability to
respond to life-threatening events, natural disasters and public
safety emergencies. We cannot afford to lose it.

Voting YES on Proposition O:

•	Rescues our emergency response system by repealing the
Emergency Response Fee and replacing it with a safer Access
Line Tax.

•	Does not increase costs to any user

•	Maintains the low-income user exemptions in the current
Emergency Response Fee

• Updates and modernizes our antiquated telephone users tax,
leaving it at its current level and continuing to exempt resi-
dential users.

San Franciscans are coming together to support
Proposition O

Yes on O is strongly supported by San Francisco Firefighters,
San Francisco Police Officers, Mayor Newsom and entire Board
of Supervisors, San Francisco Democratic Party and Republican
Party, business, labor organizations, neighborhood groups and
San Francisco small business owners.

Now, it’s up to all of us to vote YES on O, to save 911 services
with no new taxes.

Mayor Gavin Newsom

Board of Supervisors President Aaron Peskin

District Attorney Kamala Harris

Sheriff Michael Hennessey

San Francisco Firefighers Association

San Francisco Police Officers Association

San Francisco Deputy Sheriffs Association

San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association

(SPUR)

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENTS ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION O

In 2005, a coalition of San Francisco’s business groups released
a study which found that on a per-capita basis, “San Franciscans
paid roughly $461 in governmental fees in 2004, which is more
than double that of neighboring San Jose's per capita figure of
$222 and almost triple Honolulu's $156 per capita, which like
San Francisco combines city and county government.”

Since then of course, fees paid by San Franciscans have risen
dramatically. Let’s not give government a new authority to tax
our Internet use!

A fee is a payment for a service rendered to the person paying
the fee. The “Emergency Response Fee” never met this definition,
therefore it has always been a tax.

Proponents of Proposition O are trying to have it both ways.
If they admit it was a tax all along, then it should have been
approved by the voters in order to be levied - and that approv-

al was never obtained. If they say it wasn’t a tax before, then
making it a tax now puts the lie to their claim of “no new taxes.”

Call a spade a spade, and a tax, a tax!

Please have compassion for working people and families
trying to make ends meet. For residents of limited means,
every penny counts. Vote NO on O and send this testament to
government greed to the circular file!

Starchild, Outreach Director, Libertarian Party of San Francisco/
Steering Committee Member, San Francisco Taxpayers Union*

Phil Berg, Libertarian candidate for Congress

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an
individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP184-EN-N08

OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION O

For 15 years, San Francisco City Hall has been taxing your
telephone usage and calling it a fee.

They did this in order to collect the money without seeking
voter approval, which is required to impose a tax.

Recently however, a court ruling put such duplicitously named
“fees” in legal jeopardy. But instead of apologizing, or schedul-
ing a vote to refund the extra money you’ve been wrongfully
charged on your phone bill for the past decade and a half, the
politicians want voters to reward their dishonest maneuver by
affirming that this confiscation is the tax it was all along rather
than a fee, thus protecting their ability to keep charging you.

Measure O soothingly reassures us that “Future increases
should be limited to the inflation rate.” However the use of
“should” rather than “shall” means there actually is no limitation
on future increases.

Even this wasn’t enough to sate the government’s greed. A sec-
ond provision in Measure O would for the first time allow them
to tax Internet-based telephone services, and even new tech-
nologies that haven’t been invented yet.

I am not arguing against emergency services. I am saying find
other sources of funding to pay for these services which do not
involve taking more money out of the pockets of ordinary work-
ing people.

For instance, according to the City Budget Analyst, San
Francisco spends an estimated $11.4 million a year arresting
and prosecuting prostitutes and their clients for consensual
sex between adults, contrary to the tolerant, sex-positive values
of San Franciscans, and despite the fact that San Francisco juries
regularly refuse to convict individuals charged with prostitution.

Expenditures like that could be better put toward funding emer-
gency services.

Starchild

Outreach Director, Libertarian Party of San Francisco
Steering Committee Member, San Francisco Taxpayers Union*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an
individual and not on behalf of an organization.

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION O

Opponents of Proposition O would have you put our emergency
response system at risk. That’s a risk San Franciscans can’t afford
to take.

That’s why our front-line public safety officials and first-
responders, including the San Francisco Firefighters, San
Francisco Police Officers, San Francisco Deputy Sheriffs, Sheriff
Michael Hennessey and District Attorney Kamala Harris strongly
support Proposition O.

These are the facts about Prop O:

•	Proposition O replaces our current Emergency Response Fee

-	it is NOT a new cost

•	Proposition O is set at the exact same levels as the current fee

-	and includes the exact same low-income user exemptions

•	Proposition O is the only guarantee we have that vital emer-
gency and other services will not face drastic cuts

At the same time that Proposition O secures our emergency
funding, it also updates our Telephone Users Tax. Residential

phones are exempt from this tax. Proposition O leaves the current
tax rate unchanged.

Thirty-three California cities have passed a similar update to
reflect changes in telecommunications since the 1960’s. It is time
for San Francisco to approve a similar update.

Please join the diverse coalition of San Franciscans - including
the San Francisco Democratic and Republican Parties, Mayor
Gavin Newsom and the entire Board of Supervisors, business,
labor and neighborhood groups, and vote YES on Prop O.

Mayor Gavin Newsom

Board of Supervisors President Aaron Peskin

District Attorney Kamala Harris

Sheriff Michael Hennessey

San Francisco Firefighters Association

San Francisco Police Officers Association

San Francisco Deputy Sheriffs Association

San Francisco Planning and Urban Research (SPUR)

Public Defender Jeff Adachi

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP185-EN-N08

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION O

Retain vital city services - Vote YES on O.

Since 1970 the city has collected a utility users tax on commer-
cial telephone service. The City also assesses a fee on phone bills
to fund the city’s emergency call center and 911 system. Recent
court decisions and amendments to federal law jeopardize these
essential revenues.

Proposition O will allow the city to continue to collect these
revenues without changing the tax rate or residential exemption,
preserving funding for police, fire and emergency services.

Vote YES on Proposition O, Vote YES for 911.

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

The Emergency Response Fee is the lifeline for our 911 service.
It has enabled San Francisco to centralize 911 Police, Fire and
EMS dispatch functions and dramatically improve our ability to
respond to life-threatening events, natural disasters and public
safety emergencies. We cannot afford to lose it. Rescue our emer-
gency response system by repealing the Emergency Response Fee
and replacing it with a safer Access Line Tax!

Immediate emergency response is one of our most fundamental
rights as citizens. Residents and businesses rely on 911 emergency
services in life-threatening situations. Please vote YES on
Proposition O.

Ken Cleaveland, Director, Government and Public Affairs
Building Owners and Managers Association of San Francisco

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
BOMASF IE PAC - ID#870449.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Harsch Investment Properties, 2. Cushman & Wakefield
of California, 3. Capital and Counties USA, Inc.

San Francisco cannot afford to lose essential funding for public
safety. Please join me in supporting Proposition O to preserve
critical services for our city.

Heather J. Fong
Chief of Police*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an indi-
vidual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Coalition to Save Essential Services, Yes on O.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the San
Francisco Fire Fighters PAC.

The Emergency Response Fee provides vital and necessary
funding for 911 emergency workers in San Francisco. It saves
lives. Please vote YES on Proposition O and keep our 911 service
funded for the health and safety of all San Franciscans.

Senator Dianne Feinstein*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an indi-
vidual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Coalition to Save Essential Services, Yes on O.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the San
Francisco Fire Fighters PAC.

For several years, the Emergency Response Fee has funded our
first line of defense against life-threatening emergencies: police,
fire and EMS dispatch. Please join me in voting YES for
Proposition O and keep our City’s emergency dispatch fully
funded.

Anita Theoharis

Former President SF Planning Commission*

Former President West of Twin Peaks Central Council*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an indi-
vidual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Coalition to Save Essential Services, Yes on O.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the San
Francisco Fire Fighters PAC.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP186-EN-N08

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION O

San Francisco’s Emergency Response Fee provides essential
funding for our 911 emergency services. To continue funding this
vital resource, please vote YES on Proposition O

George Lau, President, San Francisco Fire Commission*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an indi-
vidual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Coalition to Save Essential Services, Yes on O.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the San
Francisco Fire Fighters PAC.

We must preserve funding for 911 services.

Victor Makras, Fire Commissioner*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an indi-
vidual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Victor G. Makras.

All San Franciscans depend on the Emergency Response Fee to
fund vital dispatch functions for Police, Fire and EMS. Please
vote YES on PROP O to keep our emergency services fully
funded.

Scott Wiener, Past Chair, San Francisco Democratic Party*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an indi-
vidual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Coalition to Save Essential Services, Yes on O.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the San
Francisco Fire Fighters PAC.

Save critical emergency services! Join San Francisco Labor in
voting Yes on O!

Every San Franciscan depends on our first responders in emer-
gency situations. That’s why San Francisco working families are
supporting Yes on O. Proposition O saves essential funding for

emergency services without raising taxes. Join San Francisco
labor in voting Yes on O to Save 911.

San Francisco Labor Council

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Coalition to Save Essential Services, Yes on O.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the San
Francisco Fire Fighters PAC.

San Francisco Democrats Support Yes on O - Save 911!

Proposition O ensures continued funding of the most important
service our local government provides - emergency response by
trained public safety professionals. San Francisco Democrats can
help support emergency services without raising taxes by voting
Yes on O!

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Coalition to Save Essential Services, Yes on O.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the San
Francisco Fire Fighters PAC.

It’s common sense - Save 911 without raising taxes! - Yes on O!

Emergency response is the most important service our City
provides its citizens. The dedicated funding stream for our emer-
gency response infrastructure is in legal jeopardy, potentially cost-
ing the city $43 million of public safety funds next year alone.
Now you can help guarantee continued funding for our emergency
communications system without raising taxes. Join us and help
Save 911 by voting Yes on O!

San Francisco Firefighters Local 798
Sheriff Michael Hennessey
San Francisco Deputy Sheriffs Association
District Attorney Kamala Harris

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Coalition to Save Essential Services, Yes on O.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the San
Francisco Firefighters PAC.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP187-EN-N08

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION O

Join SF LGBT leaders in supporting Yes on O!

San Francisco’s diverse neighborhoods and communities have
one thing in common - we all rely on our first responders in
emergency situations. For years, our 911 system has been funded
by a fee that is now in legal dispute. To keep our life-saving emer-
gency response system operating without raising taxes, vote Yes
on O!

State Senator Carole Migden
Assemblyman Mark Leno
Supervisor Tom Ammiano
Supervisor Bevan Dufty
Harvey Milk LGBT Democratic Club

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Coalition to Save Essential Services, Yes on O.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the San
Francisco Fire Fighters PAC.

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION O

NO PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION O WERE SUBMITTED

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP188-EN-N08