STATE MEASURES

, _	VETERANS' BOND ACT OF 2008. This act provides for a bond

1 y	issue of nine hundred million dollars ($900,000,000) to provide farm

■ ™ and home aid for California veterans. Fiscal Impact: Costs of about
$1.8 billion to pay off both the principal ($900 million) and interest ($856 million) on
the bonds; costs paid by participating veterans. Average payment for principal and'
million per year for 30 years.	_______

132	ves~c

133	no-*o

interest of about $59

COUNTY MEASURES

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

138

N0~O

R TRAFFIC RELIEF. RAIL EXTENSIONS. REDUCE FOREIGN OIL 137 YES-*0
DEPENDENCE. To: Synchronize traffic signals; Repair potholes; Extend
light rail with airport connections; Improve freeway traffic flow (5,10,14,60,

101, 110, 138, 210, 405, 605, 710); Keep senior/student/disabled fares low;

Provide clean-fuel buses; Expand subway/Metrolink/bus service; Dedicate millions for community traffic
relief; Shall Los Angeles County's sales tax increase one-half cent for 30 years with independent audits,
public review of expenditures, all locally controlled?

CITY

LAKEWOOD CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

144

L Shall an ordinance be adopted to update and continue the
telecommunications portion of Lakewood’s utility users tax to fund law
enforcement, gang and drug prevention programs, after-school activities,
senior transportation, parks, street and traffic signal maintenance and other
essential services, with exemptions for low-income residents and seniors and provisions for equal
treatment of taxpayers regardless of technology used, annual audits, public review of expenditures, no
rate increases without voter approval, and local control of revenues?

143

YES"*0

o

NO i

DISTRICT

CENTRAL BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT

Member, Board of Directors, Division 5 Vote for One	PHILLIP D. HAWKINS 1A<Wn  Director, Central Basin Municipal Water District 145^'^-?
	MASON BUCHANAN INOCENTES ICfWn  Water Conservation Advisor 1OU
END OF BALLOT	

06-01OE

LA 495-008

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

Ballot Measure L proposes the adoption of an ordinance which would update the
Lakewood Municipal Code chapter that governs the City’s existing Utility Users
Tax on telephone services. The proposed ordinance would not change the 3% tax
rate, and it would not have any effect on the City’s existing utility tax on
electricity, gas and water.

In 1992, the City adopted a 3% Utility Users Tax. Lakewood voters affirmed the
tax in 1997. Revenues and expenditures are independently audited annually and
the audit is made public. Elderly, disabled, and low-income residents are eligible
for an exemption, based on income and family size. The rate has remained at 3%
since 1992 and cannot be raised in the future without a vote of the people.

Utility Users Tax revenue goes into the City’s General Fund, which is used to pay
for essential City services, such as law enforcement, anti-gang and anti-drug
programs, after-school activities for youth, senior transportation programs, park
programs, and street maintenance, as well as the day-to-day operations of City
government.

Approximately $1.3 million of the City’s annual Utility Users Tax receipts come
from telephone services. The continued receipt of this amount is in severe
jeopardy. The current Municipal Code provisions, adopted many years ago, were
written before the advent of significant changes in telephone technology,
including cell phones and Voice-over-Intemet-Protocol phones. Recent changes
in Federal and State law, along with court decisions and pending litigation, cast
doubt on the City’s ability to collect the utility tax on these and newer forms of
telephone service unless the City’s Code provisions are modernized. The
proposed ordinance would remedy this situation, and insure that all users of
telecommunications are treated equally, regardless of the kind of phone service
they use. If the Measure is not adopted, it is almost a certainty that some users
will pay the tax and some will not, depending on the manner in which they obtain
telephone services in the future.

A “Yes” vote on Measure L is a vote in favor of adopting an ordinance
(summarized above) that will update the City’s Code and apply it equitably to all
forms of telephone service. A simple majority of “Yes” votes is required for the
ordinance to be enacted. A “No” vote is against adopting the ordinance. If the
ordinance is not enacted, the current Code provisions would remain unchanged,
which would leave in place the existing 3% tax on today’s telephone services, but
with all of the uncertainties and potential inequities described above.

The above statement is an Impartial Analysis of Measure L. If you desire a copy
of the Ordinance, please call the City Clerk’s office at (562)866-9771, ext. 2200
and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you, or you may access the text from the
Internet at www.Iakewoodcitv.org/vote

PR-900461-1

N LA 495-022

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Vote “Yes” on L: Lakewood’s utility users tax (UUT) modernization measure.

-	Protects funding for sheriffs law enforcement, gang and drug prevention
programs, supervised after-school activities, senior center programs, park
sports, adult recreation, and other services that benefit you and your family.

-	Updates language in the city code to keep pace with changes in telephone
technology.

-	Keeps local revenue in Lakewood and out of the hands of the county and the

state.

-	Does not tax Internet access.

-	Continues exemptions for low-income seniors and the disabled.

-	Requires independent audits so that all funds are properly collected and spent.

If language in the city code is not updated, Lakewood could lose as much as
$1.3 million each year from the telecommunications portion of the city’s UUT.
That loss would be significant, equal to an 8% cut in the funding that pays for
public safety, recreation, street maintenance, and services for seniors and
families.

Updating the telecommunications portion of Lakewood’s UUT is NOT a new
tax. It modernizes an existing tax - with NO increase in the 3% tax rate adopted
in 1992. It restores equality for all users of telephone services regardless of the
technology they use.

Vote “Yes” to preserve a reliable source of revenue for essential city services.

Vote “Yes” to keep locally collected taxes in Lakewood so that they benefit
Lakewood taxpayers.

Vote “Yes” to keep Lakewood the special community you want it to be.

Join us and sheriffs deputies, firefighters, the Chamber of Commerce, leaders of
community organizations, and your neighbors to preserve Lakewood’s future.

RONALD J. PIAZZA	JASON HAGENSICK

Business Owner	Nonprofit Executive

LOUISE DODSON	VICKI STUCKEY

Former ABC School Board Member Sheriffs Deputy

JOHN KELSALL

President & CEO Chamber of Commerce

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-900461-2

N LA 495-023