“To improve students’ reading, writing, math, and science skills by recruiting and retaining experienced, highly qualified teachers and support staff; and
by supporting supplemental educational programs and services, shall the Ravenswood City School District levy an annual parcel tax of $98 for five (5)
years, beginning July 1, 2009; and increase the District’s total appropriations limit annually according to statute, with exemptions available to individuals
aged 65 and older?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Ravenswood City
School District proposes to levy a special tax for a period of five years
beginning July 1, 2009 and ending June 30, 2014. This tax shall be at a
rate not to exceed $98 per year per parcel on all taxable parcels in the
District. This tax would continue the current parcel tax of $98 per parcel,
which expires on June 30, 2009.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District
which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
San Mateo County tax collection officials. Parcels owned and occupied by
persons 65 years of age or older may be exempt from the special tax. All
property which would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also
be exempt from the imposition of the tax.

The stated purposes of the special tax are for improving students’
reading, writing, math, and science skills by recruiting and retaining
teachers and support staff; and by supporting supplemental educational
programs and services.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special account.
An annual report is required that accounts for the parcel tax revenues
collected and the manner in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied
on property within the boundaries of the Ravenswood City School
District for a period of five years beginning July 1, 2009 and ending
June 30. 2014 in an amount up to $98 per year per taxable parcel.
The special tax would be used for improving students’ reading,
writing, math, and science skills by recruiting and retaining teachers
and support staff; and by supporting supplemental educational
programs and services.

A “no" vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be
levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
"yes.”

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure M. If
you desire a copy of the measure, please call the election
official’s office at (650) 312-5222 and a copy will be mailed at no
cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

Please join us and vote YES on Measure M to continue to support the
children of Ravenswood City School District. Since 2004, when you
indicated your support for our elementary school children by passing the
current parcel tax, to improve students' reading, writing, math, and science
skills by recruiting and retaining experienced, highly qualified teachers and
support staff; and by supporting supplemental educational programs and
services, Ravenswood teachers have seen improved salaries and benefits.
As a result, more of our experienced, well-trained, credentialed teachers are
staying here in our local community.

Measure M will enable Ravenswood to maintain the progress begun over
these past few years with no increase in taxes from what residents are
currently paying.

Improving our children’s education starts with the basics of reading,
writing and math. The most important part of that effort starts with having
the best teachers possible for these basic subjects. Measure M enables the
District to give students the best resource for learning by increasing the
number of experienced, professional teachers in our local schools.

New teachers who graduate and enter the job market should see
Ravenswood as an excellent place to build a long-term career. When well-
qualified teachers are here, we should pay them enough so that they don’t
move on to neighboring districts merely because those districts pay slightly
more.

Not only will Measure M not increase taxes beyond current levels, but it
maintains the availability of exemptions for senior citizens and says that no
funds will be used for administrator salaries. Plus safeguards, such as
annual reports, are built into Measure M to assure us that funds will only
be used for their intended purpose.

We urge you to vote YES on Measure M for the children of Ravenswood
City School District.

Is/ Lois C. Frontino
Retired District Board

Is/ Prado, J.

Classified Staff Member

IsI Jacqueline Wallace Greene

School Board President

November 16, 2007

November 16, 2007
November 16, 2007

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M SUBMITTED

12