PROPOSITION A

To enhance quality educational programs for children; attract and retain quality teachers
and staff by increasing salaries; provide teachers with additional compensation for extra
work at hard-to-staff schools and in hard-to-fill subject areas; and increase teacher train-
ing, resources and classroom support, technology, innovation, and accountability, shall
the San Francisco Unified School District be authorized to levy $198 per parcel annually,
adjusted for inflation, with mandatory citizen oversight?

Digest

by the Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The San Francisco Unified School District
educates approximately 60,000 pre-kindergarten through twelfth
grade students at more than 120 schools and child development
centers.

The District is funded mostly by the state and federal govern-
ments; it also receives local funds approved by the voters. For
example, in 2003 and 2006 voters approved general obligation
bond measures to upgrade the District's school facilities. In 2004,
voters approved a Charter Amendment to provide local funding for
arts, music, sports and library programs.

State law allows local school districts to collect a parcel tax if the
tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters in the district.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition A would authorize the District to
collect an annual tax of $198 per parcel of taxable property in the
City beginning July 1, 2008 until July 1, 2028. This amount would
be adjusted annually to account for inflation. The District could use
this tax revenue to:

•	attract and retain teachers by raising salaries, providing reten-
tion bonuses and offering additional compensation to teach-
ers who work at schools with high teacher turnover and in
hard-to-fill subject areas;

•	retain other school personnel by providing more competitive
compensation or benefits;

•	provide additional training to teachers and teachers’ aides;

•	promote professional learning and accountability by develop-
ing a Master Teacher program and expanding the Peer
Assistance and Review program;

•	provide recognition and resources to schools that show the
most growth in student achievement;

•	improve technology and other support resources to encour-
age innovative teaching; and

•	allocate a portion of the funds for public charter schools.

Proposition A would provide an optional exemption from the tax for
senior citizens who turn 65 years of age before July 1 of the tax
year, own an interest in the property being taxed, and use the
property as their principal residence. To receive the exemption,
eligible senior citizens must annually apply to the District before
July 1 of each tax year or, during the first year, at a date the District
will determine.

Proposition A would require the District to create an independent
oversight committee to ensure that the parcel tax revenue is used
only for the purposes set forth in the measure. State law requires
that the District create a separate account into which the tax rev-
enue would be deposited and file an annual report on the funds
collected and spent.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote yes, you want to allow the
District to collect an annual parcel tax of $198 per parcel beginning
July 1,2008 until July 1,2028 to increase compensation for teach-
ers and staff, improve training, promote accountability and recog-
nition for teachers and schools, support academic innovation,
provide access to current technology, and allocate funds for public
charter schools.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote no, you do not want to allow
the District to collect the annual parcel tax for these purposes.

• provide students, parents and teachers with access to current
technology;

Notice to Voters:

The “Controller’s Statement” and “How ‘A’ Got on the Ballot” information on this measure appear on the opposite (facing) page.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 662/s% AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE 145.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE 90.

38-CP93-EN-J08

38-CP93-EN-J08

Controller's Statement on “A”

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition A:

Should the proposed measure be approved by the voters, in my
opinion, parcel tax revenues would be generated in the amount of
approximately $28 million annually at current rates. This amount
would increase over time as the tax amount is adjusted for infla-
tion. The funds would be available for teacher salaries and training
and other purposes of the San Francisco Unified School District
subject as specified in the measure.

The measure specifies that the parcel tax will be collected
beginning July 1, 2008 for a period of 20 years to July 1, 2028.

How “A” Got on the Ballot

On February 12, 2008 the San Francisco Board of Education
voted 6 to 0 to place Proposition A on the ballot.

The members of the Board of Education voted as follows:

Yes: Members Kim, Mar, Mendoza, Sanchez, Wynns and Yee
Absent: Member Maufas.

State law allows a school district to place a measure on the bal-
lot in this manner.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 662/s% AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THE FACING PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE 145.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE 90.

38-CP92-EN-J08

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Voting YES on Proposition A will allow San Francisco to
attract and retain highly qualified teachers and improve the
quality of public education.

Every child deserves a great teacher. Excellent teachers help our
children graduate with the skills necessary to succeed in college,
career, and life. Voting YES will ensure that we have a quality
teacher with the proper qualifications, training, and support in
every San Francisco classroom.

Like all professionals, teachers need ongoing training to stay
current with the most innovative and effective ways to teach.
Prop A doubles teacher training. It also assures accountability -
teachers who are struggling will receive mentoring and support
from other successful teachers to help them improve, or they will
leave the classroom.

San Francisco has the highest cost of living of any city in
California. Prop A will enable us to recruit and pay teachers a liv-
ing wage so they don’t keep leaving to work for other districts that
offer higher salaries and a lower cost of living.

Prop A also will provide support for teachers who work at
schools with high teacher turnover. Our schools will be better
equipped to support teachers that work in shortage areas like
math, science, and special education. Finally, this proposition will
update antiquated school computers and technology resources.

Prop A creates local funding at a time when Sacramento is
slashing education budgets. Prop A also appoints an independent
oversight committee and requires regular financial audits to
ensure all funds are spent appropriately.

Join parents, teachers, business leaders, and labor by voting
YES on A so that our San Francisco children can have the
quality teachers they deserve to thrive and succeed.

Mayor Gavin Newsom*

San Francisco Board of Education
San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
United Educators of San Francisco
Parents for Public Schools

*For identification purposes only

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Vote No on Proposition A.

We agree with the proponents arguments. Every child does
deserve a great teacher. Teachers do need adequate pay and ongo-
ing training. San Francisco does have a very high cost of living.

The problem is the method of financing. About 2/3 of The
City’s residents will not pay a single penny toward this tax. The
School Board could have put a simple pass through in their legis-
lation. Instead, they decided take the unfair but politically expedi-
ent route.

Don’t place the unfair burden of supporting the San
Francisco Unified School district on a small minority of San
Franciscans.

Vote No on Proposition A.

San Francisco Republican Party

Howard Epstein

Chairman

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
________________Arguments	are	printed	as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP94-EN-J08

OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Vote No on Proposition A.

San Franciscans agree that our schools should have adequate
funding. However, long-time home and condominium owners will
see a tax increase of as much as 6% based on an assessed $300,000
value. Large commercial buildings will see an increase of as little
as l/6th of 1%.

The proponents of Proposition A had other options. Instead,
they decided to place the burden on the City’s small property own-
ers. They could have asked for a sales tax increase, which would
have fairly shared the burden among all San Francisco residents,
businesses and visitors. They could have based the tax on square
footage.

Vote no on Proposition A. Let the proponents come back with a
tax that is fair to all.

Howard Epstein, Chairman
San Francisco Republican Party

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Proposition A will improve the quality of public education
for San Francisco children.

Quality teachers and excellent schools will help our San
Francisco community thrive. These conditions can’t exist without
adequate funding, which our opponents agree we don’t have. With
Sacramento’s dramatic cuts this year, budgets for our teachers and
schools will be slashed.

San Francisco has the second highest cost of living of any city
in the United States, yet San Francisco ranks 14th in California for
teacher pay. Our city loses teachers to other school districts that
pay up to $15,000 more.

In order to attract, retain, and nurture highly qualified
teachers, we need to invest in our children and pass Proposition
A - to give San Francisco teachers a living wage.

With Prop A, we can bring some local control and stability to
school funding. All the funds raised by Proposition A stay here in
San Francisco and will help our city attract and retain the best and
brightest teachers.

Prop A will increase teacher-training opportunities and provide
funding to upgrade and replace the schools oldest computers and
technologies. It will provide support for teachers who work at
schools with high teacher turnover. Finally, our schools will be
better equipped to support teachers that work in shortage areas
like math, science, and special education.

Mandatory audits will ensure all of the funds are spent
properly.

Help our schools, teachers, and kids. Vote Yes on A.

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
Mayor Gavin Newsom*

San Francisco Board of Education
United Educators, San Francisco
Parents for Public Schools

*For identification purposes only

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP95-EN-J08

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION A

PROPOSITION A

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “San Francisco
Quality Teacher and Education Act of 2008” or as “Proposition A”.

FINDINGS

WHEREAS: The Board of Education of the San Francisco Unified
School District (the “Board”) believes that a qualified special tax is nec-
essary to maintain quality education for all of the students of the San
Francisco Unified School District (the “District”); and

WHEREAS: Funding from the State of California (the “State”) and
Federal Government have been inadequate to meet these objectives and
the Board has no assurance that State or Federal funding will permit the
District to meet these objectives in the future; and

WHEREAS: Since Proposition 13 passed in 1978, California’s per-pupil
spending has slid to one of the lowest in the nation; in January 2008, an
Education Week report ranked California 46th in education spending
nationwide; and

WHEREAS: San Francisco has the 2nd highest cost of living of any city
in the country but there are 13 cities in California alone that pay teachers
more than San Francisco; and

WHEREAS: The District has a difficult time attracting and retaining
quality teachers, with some schools suffering from high teacher turn over
and some subjects, such as bilingual education, special education, math,
and science, experiencing teacher shortages; and

WHEREAS: Education studies have show that one of the most impor-
tant factors determining student achievement is a fully supported, well-
trained and consistent teacher in the classroom; and

WHEREAS: The Board of Education has determined in its best judg-
ment that in order to improve quality education in San Francisco for all
students that an election is advisable and necessary to request voters to
authorize a qualified special tax in the amount of $198 per year per parcel
of taxable real property, to be collected beginning July 1,2008;

WHEREAS: Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution
and Sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079 and 53722 et seq. of the
California Government Code, authorize a school district, upon approval
of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the proposition, to levy a quali-
fied special tax for specified purposes following notice and a public hear-
ing; and

WHEREAS: The Board of Education has conducted public hearing after
due notice regarding the proposed authorization of the special tax, as
required by law, and

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That based upon these findings, the
Board of Education of the San Francisco Unified School District provides
as follows:

Section 1: TERMS OF THE SAN FRANCISCO QUALITY
TEACHER AND EDUCATION ACT OF 2008

(a)	Terms and Purposes: Upon approval of two thirds of those vot-
ing on this proposition, the District shall be authorized to and shall levy
a qualified special tax of $198 per year per parcel of taxable real prop-
erty in the District, commencing July 1,2008, and adjusting for inflation
each year thereafter by the San Francisco All Items Consumer Price Index
for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) as reported by the US Department of
Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.

The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the “San
Francisco Quality Teacher and Education Act of 2008.” Proceeds of the
San Francisco Quality Teacher and Education Act of 2008 shall be autho-
rized to be used to:

•	Strategically raise the salary of teachers and provide retention bonus-
es so the District can compete with other districts in attracting and
retaining the best teachers to support student achievement;

•	Provide additional compensation/stipends to teachers who work at
schools with high teacher turnover and in hard-to-fill subject areas;

•	Provide additional training to staff, including Child Development
Program and K-12 teachers and paraprofessionals;

•	Provide more competitive compensation and/or benefits to other
school personnel;

•	Develop a Master Teacher program and provide incentives for excep-
tional teachers to stay in the classroom to support student achieve-
ment and promote professional learning communities;

•	Expand and improve the Peer Assistance and Review program and
increase teacher support and accountability;

•	Support best practices at schools by providing additional recognition
and resources to schools that model effective school-wide strategies
and show the most growth in student achievement;

•	Improve academic innovation, technology and other support resourc-
es to assure continuous growth of innovative teaching and learning
opportunities and provide students, parents, and teachers with access
to current technology and adequate resources to support student
achievement;

•	Allocate a portion of funds to public charter schools; and

•	Conduct the election and provide oversight to make sure the proceeds
from the parcel tax are only spent in the manner approved by the
voters.

(b)	Senior Citizen Exemption Available: An optional exemption from
the special tax will be made available annually to each individual in the
District who attains 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax year, and who
owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or
her principal place of residence, and who applies to the District on or
before July 1 of each tax year, or during the first year of the tax at a date to
be determined by the Board of Education. Any application for such exemp-
tion must be submitted to the District and must be renewed annually.

Section 2: ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

(a)	Oversight Committee: An independent oversight committee shall
be appointed by the Board of Education to ensure that the proceeds from
this proposition are expended for the purposes described in the proposi-
tion.

(b)	Government Code Section 50075.1 Compliance:	The	mem-

bers of the Board, the Superintendent of the District, and officers of the
District are hereby requested and directed, individually and collectively,
to provide accountability propositions pursuant to Government Code
Section 50075.1 that include, but are not limited to, all of the following:

(i)	a statement indicating the specific purposes of the qualified special
tax, (ii) a requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific
purposes identified pursuant to subsection (i), (iii) the creation of a sepa-
rate special account into which the proceeds from the special taxes shall
be deposited, and (iv) an annual report pursuant to Section 50075.3. of
the Government Code.

(c)	Government Code Section 50075.3 Compliance:	Pursuant	to

Section 50075.3 of the Government Code, the Board directs that the
Chief Financial Officer of the District file a report with the Board no later
than January 1, 2009, and at least once a year thereafter. The annual
report shall contain both of the following: (i) the amount of funds col-
lected and expended from the special taxes, and (ii) the status of any
projects or programs required or authorized to be funded as identified in
subsection (a)(i) hereof from the proceeds of the special taxes.

38-CP145-EN-J08

145

38-CP145-EN-J08

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITIONS A AND B

(d)	Specific Purposes:	All of the purposes set forth in the proposi-

tion shall constitute the specific purposes of the San Francisco Quality
Teacher and Education Act of 2008, and the proceeds of that special tax
shall be applied only for such purposes, and shall not fund any program,
project or reduction other than those authorized above.

Section 3: PROTECTION OF FUNDING

If the adoption of this Proposition results in any decrease in State or
Federal funding to the District, then the amount of the special taxes
authorized by this Proposition will be reduced annually as necessary in
order to restore any such reduction in State or Federal funding; or the
Board may authorize the Tax Collector to transfer to the City's Children's
Fund, or such other fund as the Board may designate for activities that
are consistent with the general purposes of this proposition, such amounts
as are designated by the Board to be necessary to restore any such reduc-
tion in State or Federal funding.

Section 4: LEVY AND COLLECTION

(a)	Collection: The San Francisco Quality Teacher and Education Act
of 2008 special tax shall be collected by the City And County of San
Francisco's Office of the Treasurer and Tax Collector (the “Tax Collector”)
at the same time and in the same manner and shall be subject to the same
penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Tax Collector. The
collection of taxes under the Quality Teacher in Every Classroom of 2008
shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of the District
in any period from the effective date hereof.

(b)	Definition: “Parcel of taxable real property” as used herein shall
be defined as any unit of real property in the City and County of San
Francisco that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes
from the Tax Collector's Office.

(c)	Exemption: All property that the Tax Collector has determined to
be otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property
taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the San Francisco Quality
Teacher and Education Act of 2008 in such year. The Tax Collector's
determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel from
taxation, other than the Senior Citizen Exemption, shall be final on the
taxpayer for purposes of the San Francisco Quality Teacher and Education
Act of 2008. Taxpayers desiring to challenge the Tax Collector's determi-
nation should do so under the procedures established by the Tax
Collector's Office and Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code or other applicable law. Taxpayers seeking any refund of
taxes paid pursuant to the San Francisco Quality Teacher and Education
Act of 2008 shall follow the procedures applicable to tax refunds pursu-
ant to the California revenue and Taxation Code.

(d)	List of Senior Citizen Exemption: Parcels owned and occupied by
individuals who are 65 years of age or older may be exempt pursuant to
the Senior Citizen Exemption provisions set forth above. The District
shall annually provide a list to the Tax Collector, on or before a date
established by the Tax Collector each year, of the parcels which the
District has approved for the Senior Citizen Exemption as described
above.

(e)	Duration: The collection of taxes pursuant to this San Francisco
Quality Teacher and Education Act of 2008 shall commence July 1,2008
and expire June 30,2028.

(f)	Appropriations Limit: The Board shall provide, pursuant to
Section 7902.1 of the Government Code or any successor provision of
law, for any increase in the District’s appropriations limit as shall be
necessary to ensure that the proceeds of the special tax may be collected
and spent for the authorized purposes.

Section 5: SEVERABILITY

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this proposition
concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this proposi-
tion has independent value, and the Board and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof.
Upon approval of this proposition by the voters, should any part be found
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest
extent allowed by law.

PROPOSITION B

Describing and setting forth a proposal to the qualified voters of
the City and County of San Francisco to amend the Charter of the City
and County of San Francisco by:

•	amending Section A8.428, to increase the years of service
required for new employees to qualify for subsidized health
benefits at retirement and to adjust the formula for calculating
retiree health benefit subsidies for those new employees;

•	adding Sections 12.204, A8.409-7, and A8.590-8, and amend-
ing Section A8.432, to fund retiree health benefits for the City
and County of San Francisco and other participating employ-
ers;

•	adding Sections A8.404-1 and A8.409-8 so that economic pro-
visions, including wages, shall not be increased for miscella-
neous City and County employees for the fiscal year commenc-
ing July 1,2009 and ending on June 30,2010, and recognizing
certain ongoing economic expenditures by the City and County
in future years; and

•	adding Sections A8.526-2 and A8.526-3, and amending
Sections A8.509, A8.587-2 and A8.587-13, to increase retire-
ment benefits for retirees and employees who retire on or after
January 10, 2009 to encourage longer employment and reten-
tion and improved cost of living benefits for all retirees and
employees.

The Board of Supervisors hereby submits to the qualified voters of
the City and County, at an election to be held on June 3, 2008, a pro-
posal to amend the Charter of the City and County by: amending Sections
A8.428, A8.432, A8.509, A8.587-2 and A8.587-13; and, adding Sections
12.204, A8.404-1, A8.409-7, A8.409-8, A8.526-2, A8.526-3, and
A8.590-8; all to read as follows:

Note: Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman:
Deletions are strikethrough italics Times New Roman.

SEC. 12.204. RETIREE HEALTH CARE TRUST FUND.

The Retiree Health Care Trust Fund (“RHCTF”) shall be an irre-
vocable trust fund established under Section A8.432, and separate from
the Health Service System trust fund described in Charter Sections
12.203 and A8.428. to provide a funding source to defray the cost of the
City's. and other Participating Employers', obligations to pay for health
coverage for retired persons and their survivors entitled to health cover-
age under Section A8.428. Trust assets shall he held for the sole and
exclusive purpose of providing health coverage to eligible retired persons
and their survivors, and to defray the reasonable expenses of administer-
ing the RHCTF. including hut not limited to educational, actuarial, con-
sulting. administrative support and accounting expenses associated with
the RHCTF. Administrative costs, including hut not limited to educa-
tional. actuarial and consulting expenses associated with the Retiree
Health Care Trust Fund. as adopted by the board of supervisors in the
annual budget, shall he paid from the Retiree Health Care Trust Fund,
hut only upon adoption o f a resolution hy the Retiree Health Trust Fund
Board approving such expenses.

38-CP146-EN-J08

38-CP146-EN-J08

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION B

The RHCTF shall be governed by a Retiree Health Trust Fund
Board (“Board”). The Board shall consist of five trustees. one of whom
shall he appointed hy the City Controller. one of whom shall he appointed
hy the City Treasurer, one of whom shall he appointed hy the Executive
Director of the San Francisco Employees Retirement System, and two of
whom shall be elected from among active employee and retired members
of the City's Health Service System. One of the elected trustees shall be an
active employee member and one shall he a retired member as of the date
of their respective elections. Each elected trustee shall serve for a term of
five years. No person may serve simultaneously as a trustee on the Board
and as an elected or appointed member of the San Francisco Employees
Retirement System Board or the Health Service System Board.

SEC. A8.404-1. FY 2009-2010 INTERIM ECONOMIC PROVISIONS.

Notwithstanding any other provision of Charter Section A8404. for
the fiscal year commencing July 1. 2009. and ending on June 30. 2010. all
economic provisions (including but not limited to wages, premium pay
rates, overtime. any employer pickup of the employees' retirement contri-
bution. paid time off. and other compensation. hut not including any trust
fund contributions required under Section A8.404(f)) shall not he
increased for miscellaneous City and County platform employees, and
coach or bus operators of the municipal railway, above the levels set in
place as of close of business June 30. 2009. nor may new economic provi-
sions be added.

SEC. A8.409-7. RETIREE HEALTH CARE TRUST FUND.

Notwithstanding any other provision of Charter Sections A8.409
through A8.409-8, the provisions and operation of the Retiree Health Care
Trust Fund, including employee contributions to the fund, shall he deter-
mined pursuant to Charter Sections 12.204. A8.432. and A8.433. and
shall not he subject to the dispute resolution procedures contained in
Charter Section A8.409-4.

SEC. A8,409-8. FY 2009-2010 ECONOMIC PROVISIONS AND
FUTURE PROCEEDINGS.

Notwithstanding any other provision of Charter Sections A8.409
through A8.409-7. for the fiscal year commencing July 7. 2009. and end-
ing on June 30. 2010. all economic provisions (including, hut not limited
to. wages, premium pay rates, overtime, any employer pickup of the
employees' retirement contribution, paid time off, and other compensa-
tion) shall remain unchanged for miscellaneous City and County officers
and employees at the levels set in place as of close of business June 30.
2009, and no new economic provisions may be added. For the fiscal year
commencing July 1, 2009. and ending on June 30. 2010. economic provi-
sions shall not be subject to the dispute resolution procedures contained
in Charter Section A8.409-4. Notwithstanding any other provision of
Charter Section A8.409-4. for the fiscal year commencing July 7. 2010.
and ending on June 30. 2011. and every year thereafter, in anv mediation/
arbitration proceeding under A8.409-4. the mediation/arbitration board
shall recognize as wages the ongoing economic expenditures made by the
City and County beginning, during and continuing beyond fiscal year
2009-2010 as a result of this Charter Amendment submitted to the voters
at the June 3. 2008 election when evaluating any economic proposals
contained in a last offer of settlement by either party. However. City and
County contributions to the Retiree Health Care Trust Fund under Section
A8.432 shall not be considered or relied on by the mediation/arbitration
board as a wage or other payment to employees for the purposes of
evaluating the proposals contained in the last offers of settlement of either
party. Likewise. in evaluating the proposals contained in the last offers of
settlement of either party, the mediation/arbitration board shall not take
into account or otherwise consider or rely on any mandatory employee
contributions to the Retiree Health Care Trust Fund required under
Charter Sections 12.204 and A8.432.

SEC. A8.428. HEALTH SERVICE SYSTEM TRUST FUND.

There is hereby created a health service system trust fund. The
costs of the health service system shall be borne by the members of the
system and retired persons, the City and County of San Francisco because
of its members and retired persons^_a/iJ because of the members and
retired persons o/the Parking Authority of the City and County of San
Francisco because of its members and retired persons, the San Francisco
Unified School District because of its members and retired persons and
the San Francisco Community College District because of its members
and retired persons.

(a) Definitions

“Credited Service” means years of employment with the
Employers.

“Employers” as used in this section means the City and County of
San Francisco (“City and County”), the San Francisco Unified School
District (“School District”) and/or the San Francisco Community
College District (“Community College District”). Employers shall also
include the Superior Court of California. Countv of San Francisco
(“Superior Court”), to the extent the Superior Court participates in the
City's Health Service System under A8.428(e).

“Hired on or Before January 9. 2009” as used in this section
means employees of the City and County, the School District and/or the
Community College District who were hired on or before January 9.
2009. excluding the following categories of employees: (1) as-needed
employees who have never earned 1.040 or more hours of compensation
during any 12-month period ending on or before January 9. 2009: and/or

(2)	employees who have separated from the Employers on or before
January 9. 2009. and have less than 5 years of Credited Service.

“PERS” as used in this section shall mean the Public Employees'
Retirement System of the State of California.

“Registered as Domestic Partners” as used in this section means
persons who have established a domestic partnership according to the
provisions of Chapter 62 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, as
amended from time to time. Domestic partners who have formed their
domestic partnership only by notarization of a declaration of Domestic
Partnership as provided in Chapter 62 of the San Francisco Administrative
Code shall not be recognized or treated as a domestic partnership under
this Section unless and until the domestic partnership is registered or
certified.

“Retirement System” as used in this section shall mean the San
Francisco City and County Employees' Retirement System.

“Retired under the San Francisco City and County Employees'
Retirement System” as used in this section includes persons who retire for
service: retire for disability: or who receive a retirement or vesting allow-
ance from the Retirement System.

A-r “Retired ^Person ” as used in this section means,:

(1)	-A former member of the health service system, hired by the
Employers on or before January 9. 2009. retired under the San Francisco
City and County Employees' Retirement System or PERS (hereinafter.
“Retired Employee who was Hired on or Before January 9. 2009”): and

(2)	The surviving spouse or surviving domestic partner of an
active employee hired on or before January 9. 2009. provided that the
surviving spouse or surviving domestic partner and the active employee
have been married or Registered as Domestic Partners for a period of at
least one year prior to the death of the active employee :~cmd

(3)	The surviving spouse or surviving domestic partner of a ^Re-
tired ^Employee who was Hired on or Before January 9. 2009. provided
that the surviving spouse or surviving domestic partner and the_active or
/‘Retired ^Employee who was Hired on or Before January 9. 2009 have
been married or /‘Registered as ^Domestic ^Partners for a period of at
least one year prior to the death of the active or /Retired ^Employee who
was Hired on or Before January 9. 2009-:

(4)	A former member of the health service system, hired by the
Employers on or after January 10. 2009. and retired under the Retirement
System or PERS for disability or retired under the Retirement System or
PERS: (i) within 180 days of separation from employment from the
Employers: and (ii) with 10 or more years of Credited Service with the

147

38-CP147-EN-J08