ORDINANCE NO. 2008-07

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WINTERS ADDING CHAPTER 3.22 TO TITLE
3 OF THE WINTERS MUNICIPAL CODE WITH RESPECT TO THE UTILITY
USER’S TAX MODERNIZATION ACT AND AMENDING CHAPTER 3.20 OF

SAID CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF WINTERS DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: Chapter 3.22 of the Municipal Code is hereby added to Title 3 of the
Winters Municipal Code and shall read as follows:

CHAPTER 3.22

UTILITY USER’S TAX MODERNIZATION ACT

3.22.010	Short Title.

3.22.020	Definitions.

3.22.030	Constitutional, Statutory, and Other Exemptions.

3.22.040	Communication User’s Tax

3.22.050	Bundling Taxable Items with Non-taxable Items

3.22.060	Substantial Nexus 1 Minimum Contacts.

3.22.070	Duty to Collect—Procedures.

3.22.080	Collection Penalties - Utility Suppliers.

3.22.090	Actions to Collect.

3.22.100	Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

3.22.110	Administrative Remedy - Non-Paying Utility Users.

3.22.120	Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator.

3.22.130	Records.

3.22.140	Refunds.

3.22.150	Appeals.

3.22.160	Notice - No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

3.22.170	Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

3.22.180	Future Amendment to Cited Statute.

3.22.190	Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption, Remittance, and

Expenditure.

3.22.200	No Increase in Tax Percentage or Change in Methodology Without

Voter Approval
3.22.210	Remedies Cumulative.

3.22.220	Interaction with Prior Tax.

3.22.230	Violation - Penalty.

3.22.010	Short Title.

This Chapter shall be known as the “Utility User’s Tax Modernization Act” of The City of
Winters.

3.22.020	Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter shall be construed as

1

defined in this section.

A.	“Ancillary telecommunication services” means services that are associated with
or	incidental

to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services, including but
not limited to the following services:

1.	“conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that links two or
more participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the
provision of a telephone number. Conference bridging service does not
include the telecommunications services used to reach the conference
bridge;

2.	“detailed telecommunications billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s
billing statement;

3.	“directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone
number information, and/or address information;

4.	“vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection
with one or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced
calling features that allow customers to identify callers and to manage
multiple calls and call connections, including conference bridging services;

5.	“voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer
to store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not
include any vertical services that the customer may be required to have in
order to utilize the voice mail service.

B.	“Ancillary video services” means services that are associated with or incidental
to the provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to
electronic program guide services, search functions, or other interactive services or
communications that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or
enjoyment of video programming.

C.	“Billing address” shall mean the mailing address of the Utility user where the
Utility supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

D.	“City” shall mean the City of Winters.

E.	“Communication services” means: “telecommunication services”, “ancillary
telecommunication services", “video services”, and “ancillary video services”.

F.	“Mobile telecommunications service” has the same meaning and usage as set
forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and
the regulations thereunder, as the same exists or may be amended from time to
time.

G.	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

H.	“Paging service” means a “telecommunications service” that provides
transmission of coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers;
such transmissions may include messages and/or sounds.

I.	“Person” shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust, common
law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock
company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign,
domestic, and non-profit), municipal district or municipal corporation, cooperative,
receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any

2

court.

J.	“Place of primary use” means the street address representative of where the
customer’s use of the communications service primarily occurs, which must be
the residential street address or the primary business street address of the
customer.

K.	“Post-paid telecommunication service" means the telecommunication service
obtained by making a payment on a communication-by-communication basis
either through the use of a credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank
card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service
number which is not associated with the origination or termination of the
telecommunication service.

L.	“Prepaid telecommunication service" means the right to access
telecommunication services, which must be paid for in advance and which
enables the origination of communications using an access number or
authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed, and that is sold in
predetermined units or dollars of which the number declines with use in a known
amount.

M.	“Private telecommunication service” means a telecommunication service that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or
group of channels between or among termination points, regardless of the
manner in which such channel or channels are connected, and includes switching
capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other associated services that are
provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A
communications channel is a physical or virtual path of communications over
which signals are transmitted between or among customer channel termination
points (i.e., the location where the customer either inputs or receives the
communications).

N.	“Service address” means either:

(1)	the location of the Utility user’s communication equipment from which the
communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the
communication is billed or paid; or,

(2)	if the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (e.g., mobile
telecommunications service or VOIP service), the service address means
the location of the service user’s place of primary use; and

(3)	for prepaid telecommunication service, "service address" means the
location associated with the service number.

O.	“Service supplier” or “Utility Supplier" shall mean any entity or person, including
the City that provides communication service to a user of such service within the
City.

P.	“Service user” or “Utility User” shall mean a person required to pay a tax
imposed under the provisions of this Chapter.

Q.	“Service Users’s Tax” or “Utility User’s Tax" means the tax imposed by this
Chapter 3.22.

R.	“State” shall mean the State of California.

S.	“Streamlined sales and use tax agreement” means the multi-state agreement
commonly known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax

Agreement, and as it is amended from time to time.

T.	“Tax Administrator” means the Director of Finance of the City of Winters or his or
her designee.

U.	“Telecommunications services” means the transmission, conveyance, or routing

of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or
between or among points, whatever the technology used. The term
“telecommunications services” includes such transmission, conveyance, or
routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or
routing without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over
internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal Communications
Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data
services that is functionally integrated with “telecommunication services”.
“Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are
calculated or billed:	ancillary telecommunication services; mobile

telecommunications service; prepaid telecommunication service (to the extent
that it is practicable for the service supplier to collect the correct tax imposed
under this Chapter from the service supplier); post-paid telecommunication
service; private telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service (or any
other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission); and 900 service (or any other similar numbers designated by the
Federal Communications Commission for services whereby subscribers who call
in to pre-recorded or live service).

V.	“Video programming” means those programming services commonly provided to
subscribers by a “video service supplier" including but not limited to basic
services, premium services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services,
video on demand, origination programming, or any other similar services,
regardless of the content of such video programming, or the technology used to
deliver such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such
services are calculated or billed.

W.	“Video services” means any and all services related to the providing, storing or
delivering of “video programming” (including origination programming and
programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video) using one or
more channels by a “video service supplier", regardless of the technology used to
deliver, store or provide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on
which such services are calculated or billed, and includes data services,
“telecommunication services", or interactive communication services that are
functionally integrated with “video services”.

X.	"Video service supplier” means any person, company, or service which provides
or sells one or more channels of video programming, or provides or sells the
capability to receive one or more channels of video programming, including any
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the provision, use or
enjoyment of the video programming, to or from a business or residential address
in the City, where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental
charges for that service, whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the

4

delivery of the video programming or communications. A “video service supplier"
includes, but is not limited to, multichannel video programming distributors (as
defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 522(13)); open video systems (OVS) suppliers; and
suppliers of cable television; master antenna television; satellite master antenna
television; multichannel multipoint distribution services (MNDS); video services
using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video, which provide, among other
things, broadcasting and video on demand), direct broadcast satellite to the
extent federal law permits taxation of its video services, now or in the future; and
other suppliers of video programming or communications (including two-way
communications), whatever their technology.

Y.	“VOIP (voice over internet protocol)” means the digital process of making and
receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

Z.	“800 service” means a “telecommunications service” that allows a caller to dial a
toll-free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically
marketed under the name *800”, “855”, “866”, “877”, and “888” toll-free calling,
and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission.

AA. “900 service” means an inbound toll “telecommunications service” purchased by
a subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s
prerecorded announcement or live service. 900 service” does not include the
charge for: collection services provided by the seller of the “telecommunications
services” to the subscriber, or service or product sold by the subscriber to the
subscriber’s customer. The service is typically marketed under the name “900”
service, and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission.

3.22.030 Constitutional, Statutory, and Other Exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person or
service when the imposition of such tax upon such person or service would be in
violation of a federal or state statute, the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the State of California.

B.	Due to the status of the Winters Joint Unified School District and due to the
strong public policy in favor of encouraging and assisting the provision of public
education, public schools are hereby exempted from the imposition of the Utility
Users Tax.

C.	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Chapter pursuant
to subsection A of this section shall file an application with the Tax Administrator
for an exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service
user that is a state or federal agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized
name for such service. Said application shall be made upon a form approved by
the Tax Administrator and shall state those facts, declared under penalty of
perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall include the names
of all communication service suppliers serving that service user. If deemed exempt
by the Tax Administrator, such service user shall give the Tax Administrator timely
written notice of any change in utility service suppliers so that the Tax
Administrator can properly notify the new communication servjce supplier of the

5

service user's tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this
section shall not be entitled to a refund of such taxes collected and remitted to
the Tax Administrator from such service user as a result of such noncompliance.
Upon request of the Tax Administrator, a service supplier or its billing agent shall
provide a list of the names and addresses of those customers which, according to
its billing records, are deemed exempt from the Communication Users Tax.

The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed by filing an application
with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City Manager. The City Manager
shall give notice of, and conduct an informed hearing and shall render a decision
in writing. Such hearing is a prerequisite to a suit herein.

3.22.040 Communication User’s Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
communication services. The maximum tax imposed by this section shall be at
the rate of 4.75 percent of the charges made for such services and shall be
collected from the service user by the communication services supplier or its
billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that communication services,
which are billed to a billing or service address in the City, are used, in whole or in
part, within the boundaries of the City, and such services are subject to taxation
under this Chapter. If the billing address of the service user is different from the
service address, the service address of the service user shall be used for
purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall
include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature,
or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the
communication services.

B.	“Mobile telecommunications service” shall be sourced in accordance with the
sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C.
Section 116 et. seq.) as the same exists or may be amended from time to time.
The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter,
sourcing rules for the taxation of other communication services, including but not
limited to post-paid communication services, prepaid communication services,
and private communication services, provided that such rules are based upon
custom and common practice that further administrative efficiency and minimize
multi jurisdictional taxation (e.g., Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement).

C.	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter, an
administrative ruling identifying those communication services, or charges
therefore, that are subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection A above.

D.	As used in this section, the term “telecommunication services” shall include, but
are not limited to charges for: connection, reconnection, termination, movement,
or change of telecommunication services; detailed billing; central office and
custom calling features (including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding,
caller identification and three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging
services; directory assistance; access and line charges; universal service charges;
regulatory, administrative and other cost recovery charges; local number portability
charges; and text and instant messaging. “Telecommunication services” shall not
include digital downloads that are not “ancillary telecommunications services”,

6

such as books, music, ringtones, games, and similar digital products.

E.	Charges for communication services (video) shall include, but are not limited to,
charges for the following:

1 regulatory fees and surcharges and access fees (PEG);

2.	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of
communication services;

3.	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

4.	all video programming services (e.g., basic services, premium services, audio
services, video games, pay-per-view services, or on demand programming);

5.	ancillary programming services (e.g., electronic program guide services,
search functions, or other interactive services or communications that are
ancillary, necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of the video
programming);

6.	equipment leases (e.g., converters, remote devices);

7.	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services,
and special services.

F.	To prevent actual multi jurisdictional taxation of communication services subject
to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator
that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another state or local
jurisdiction on such communication services, shall be allowed a credit against
the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such
other state or local jurisdiction; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not
exceed the tax owed to the City under this section.

G.	The tax on communication services imposed by this section shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one

(1)	month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by
the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month.

3.22.050 Bundling Taxable items with Non-Taxable Items.

Except as otherwise provided by applicable federal or state law, if any nontaxable
charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable service charges on
the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge is subject to tax
unless the service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable standards, the
portions of the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through the service
supplier’s books and records kept in the regular course of business, and in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax
purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper apportionment of
taxable and non-taxable charges. If the service supplier offers a combination of services
that include taxable and non-taxable services or products, and the charges are
separately stated, then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-
taxable services or products shall be based on its books and records kept in the regular
course of business and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden
of proving the proper valuation and apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges.

7

3.22.060 Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under
this Chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts" shall be construed broadly in
favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the service user’s tax to the
fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by
judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any communication service (including
VOIP) used by a person with a service address in the City, which service is capable of
terminating a call to another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to
a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes
of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this Chapter. A
service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the City for tax collection
and remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any of the
following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a
place of business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees, independent
contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the City on a
continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is
broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the City or distributed from a location
within the City, or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published
within the City or through materials distributed in the City by means other than the United
States mail.

3.22.070 Duty to Collect—Procedures.

A.	Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit
the taxes imposed by the provisions of this Chapter shall be performed as
follows:

(1)	the tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at the
same time as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in
accordance with the regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where
the amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is less than the full
amount of the charge and tax which was accrued for the billing period, a
proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to
have been paid. In those cases where a service user has notified the
service supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed on said charges, Section

3.22.090	of this Chapter shall apply,

(2)	the duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable
to the service user where all charges normally included in such regular
billing are subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where a service user
receives more than one billing, one or more being for different periods than
another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

B.	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this Chapter to remit a tax
shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax
Administrator, on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall
be included with the return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator is authorized to require such additional information as he or she
deems necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in

8

accordance with this Chapter. Returns are due immediately upon cessation of
business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7284.6,
the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as
confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the Public
Records Act of the State of California. (Government Code Section 6500 et seq.)

3.22.080 Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers.

A.	Taxes collected from a service user are delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a weekend
or legal holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator on the first
regular working day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit,
including electronic fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically
exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by a service supplier in
satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection shall be considered timely if the
transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer settles into the
City’s account on the following business day.

B.	If the person required to collect and/or remit the service user’s tax fails to collect
the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or charges on
the customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before the due date,
the Tax Administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies
at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is delinquent or deficient in
the remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate of and 75/100ths (0.75%) percent
per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon
persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter for fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen
(15%) percent of the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or
as recomputed by the Tax Administrator.

D.	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is
accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein
required to be paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, modify the due dates of this Chapter to be consistent with any uniform
standards or procedures that are mutually agreed upon by other public agencies
imposing a service user’s tax, or otherwise legally established, to create a central
payment location or mechanism.

3.22.090	Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this Chapter shall
be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a
service user which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a
debt owed to the City by the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be
a debt of the service user. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of
this Chapter shall be liable in an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery
of such amount, including penalties and interest as provided for in this Chapter, along

with any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the person’s noncompliance
with this Chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees. Any tax
required to be collected by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an
unsecured priority excise tax obligation pursuant to 11 U.S.C. Section 507(a)(8)(C).

3.22.100 Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she
determines that any service supplier or service user required to pay, collect,
and/or remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter has failed to pay,
collect, and/or remit the proper amount of tax by improperly or failing to apply the
tax to one or more taxable services or charges. Nothing herein shall require that
the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this Section 3.22. 100 if, in the
opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely
outweighs the tax benefit.

B The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the
person or entity allegedly owing the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the
amount of the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent
per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on
which the tax should have been received by the City. Within fourteen (14)
calendar days after the date of service of such notice, the person or entity
allegedly owing the tax may request in writing to the Tax Administrator for a
hearing on the matter.

C.	If the person or entity allegedly owing the tax fails to request a hearing within
the prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall
become final assessment, and shall immediately be due and owing to the City. If
the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to be
set for hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt of the
written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
mailed by the Tax Administrator to such person or entity at least ten (10) calendar
days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person or entity
to produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate the
records requested to be produced.

D.	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant testimony
and evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the discretion of the
Tax Administrator, the hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of
allowing the presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following
the conclusion of the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment
(or non-assessment), thereafter, by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original
deficiency determination, and shall mail a copy of such final assessment to person or
entity owing the tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed
pursuant to Section 3.22.150 of this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax
Administrator and appeal to the City Manager is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

E.	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of receipt
of the notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen
percent (15°1.) on the total amount of the assessment, along with interest at the

10

rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid.
The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the City seeking payment
of a tax assessed under this Chapter shall commence from the date of
delinquency as provided in this subsection E.

F.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail; postage prepaid, and
shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing,
as established by a proof of mailing.

3.22.110 Administrative Remedy - Non-Paying Service Users.

A.	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately
withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts
remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator
deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she may relieve such person of the
obligation to collect the taxes due under this Chapter from certain named service
users for specific billing periods. To the extent the service user has failed to pay
the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, the service
supplier may, in the discretion of the Tax Administrator, be relieved of the
obligation to collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide the City with the
names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed
under the provisions of this Chapter if it is determined by the Tax Administrator to
relieve the person required to collect the tax. Nothing herein shall require that
the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this Section 3.22.110 if, in the
opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely
outweighs the tax benefit.

B.	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty at
the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay
interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until
paid.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the
stated periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and
interest. The notice shall be served on the service user by personal delivery or
by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to
the service user at the address to which billing was made by the person required
to collect the tax; or, should the service user have a change of address, to his or
her last known address.

D.	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30)
days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax
Administrator may impose an additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the
amount of the total tax that is owed.

3.22.120 Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this Chapter.

B.	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent
with provisions of this Chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying
out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein
imposed. A copy of such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in
the Tax Administrator’s office.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements approved by the City Attorney, with appropriate
conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of this Chapter and thereby: (1)
conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so long as said
agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance with the general
purpose and scope of this Chapter; or, (2) to avoid a hardship where the
administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit.

D.	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with
the requirements of this Chapter, of any person required to collect and/or remit a
tax pursuant to this Chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said person of the
initiation of an audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional
misconduct, the audit period of review shall not exceed a period of three (3) years
next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by said person from the
Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax Administrator may
make a deficiency determination pursuant to Section 3.22.100 of this Chapter for
all taxes (and applicable penalties and interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced
by information provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If said person is
unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax Administrator
to verify compliance with this Chapter, the Tax Administrator is authorized to
make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be
entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

E.	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax
Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to
this Chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the
time for filing the required statement has not already passed when the request is
received. No penalty for delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such
extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at the rate of 75/100ths
(0.75%) percent per month, prorated for any portion thereof.

F.	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a
right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Chapter.

G.	Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapter to the contrary, the Tax
Administrator with the approval of the City Council may waive any penalty or
interest imposed upon a person required to collect and/or remit for failure to
collect the tax imposed by this Chapter if the non-collection occurred in good
faith. In determining whether the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax
Administrator shall take into consideration industry practice or other precedence.

3.22.130 Records.

A.	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any
tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three

(3)	years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax

as he/she may have been liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax
Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect
at a reasonable time.

B.	The City may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a person to deliver, to
the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the Tax
Administrator to establish compliance with this Chapter, including the delivery of
records in a common electronic format on readily available media if such records
are kept electronically by the person in the usual and ordinary course of business.
As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator
on or before the due date provided in the administrative subpoena, such person
may provide access to such records outside the City on or before the due date,
provided that such person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable travel
expenses incurred by the City to inspect those records, including travel, lodging,
meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly
wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

C.	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement
approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer
information pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 7284.6
and 7284.7.

D.	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator
the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing
aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit
the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect
the delivery of, any information or records in the possession of such billing agent
or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to
verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/or remittance of such tax
to the City.

E.	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably denies
the Tax Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the information
requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified, then the Tax
Administrator may impose a penalty of $500 on such person for each day
following: i) the initial date that the person refuses to provide such access; or, ii)
the due date for production of records as set forth in the administrative subpoena.
This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed under this
Chapter.

3.22.140 Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has

been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this

Chapter from a service user or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this

section:

A.	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this Chapter from a service user or service supplier, provided
that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the

claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor, or administrator has
submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one year of the
overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must
clearly establish claimant’s right to the refund by written records showing
entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on behalf of a
class or group of taxpayers unless each member of the class has submitted a
written claim under penalty of perjury as provided by this subsection.

B.	The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government Code Section 935 is a
prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to
this section shall be subject to the provisions of Government Code sections
945.6 and 946. The City Council shall act upon the refund claim within the time
period set forth in Government Code Section 912.4. If the City Council fails or
refuses to act on a refund claim within the time prescribed by Government Code
Section 912.4, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the City
Council on the last day of the period within which the City Manager/City Council
was required to act upon the claim as provided in Government Code Section
912.4. The City Clerk shall give notice of the action in a form which substantially
complies with that set forth in Government Code Section 913.

C.	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection A of this section, a service
supplier that has collected any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax
imposed by this Chapter and actually due from a service user (whether due to
overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax), may refund such
amount to the service user, or credit to charges subsequently payable by the
service user to the service supplier, and claim credit for such overpayment
against the amount of tax which is due upon any other monthly returns to the Tax
Administrator, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one
year from the date of overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax,
and provided that the Tax Administrator shall first determine the validity of the
service user’s claim of credit and the underlying basis for such claim.

D.	Notwithstanding subsections A through C above, a service supplier shall be
entitled to take any overpayment as a credit against an underpayment whenever
such overpayment has been received by the City within the three (3) years next
preceding a deficiency determination or assessment by the Tax Administrator in
connection with an audit instituted by the Tax Administrator pursuant to Section
3.22.120D. A service supplier shall not be entitled to said credit unless it clearly
establishes the right to the credit by written records showing entitlement thereto.
Under no circumstances shall an overpayment taken as a credit against an
underpayment pursuant to this subsection qualify a service supplier for a refund to
which it would not otherwise be entitled under the one-year written claim
requirement of this section.

3.22.150 Appeals

A. The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating
to a refund pursuant to Section 3.22.140 of this Chapter), deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any
person aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund

pursuant to Section 3.22.140 of this Chapter), deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, shall be required to
comply with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with this section
shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a
claim or action on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

B.	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a
refund pursuant to Section 3.22.140 of this Chapter), deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may
appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within
fourteen (14) days of the date of the decision, deficiency determination,
assessment, administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator which aggrieved the
service user or service supplier.

C.	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before an independent hearing officer
selected by the City Manager, no more than forty-five (45) days from the receipt
of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time and place of
the hearing, as well as any relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior
to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to time upon mutual
consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the Tax Administrator,
and any other interested person may present such relevant evidence as he or
she may have relating to the determination from which the appeal is taken.

D.	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s files,
the hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or
reversing the determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be
given within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state
the reasons for the decision. The notice shall specify that the decision is final and
that any petition for judicial review shall be filed within ninety (90) days from the
date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.

E.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail; postage prepaid, and
shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing,
as established by a proof of mailing.

3.22.160 No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer of the City
to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected and/or remitted.

3.22.170 Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

If a tax under this Chapter is added repealed, increased by voter approval, reduced, or the
tax base is changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of
California Public Utilities Code Section 799.

3.22.180 Future Amendment to Cited Statute.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time.

15

3.22.190 Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption, Remittance, and
Expenditure.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Chapter have been
properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter, and
properly expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual verification shall
be performed by a qualified independent third party and the review shall employ
reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance, including the use of sampling
audits. The verification shall not be required of tax remitters where the cost of the
verification may exceed the tax revenues to be reviewed.

3.22.200 No Increase in Tax Percentage or Change in Methodology Without Voter
Approval.

A.	Regarding Section 3.22.040 of this Chapter, the City may not increase the tax

percentage or change a methodology for calculating the tax so as to result in an

increase in a tax imposed on a person, without voter approval.

B.	Notwithstanding subsection A, pursuant to Government Code Section 53750,

the City may make the following changes without voter approval:

(1)	reduce the percentage rate, and at any time thereafter increase such
percentage rate, so long as the subsequent increase does not exceed the
rate previously approved by the voters in the enactment of this Chapter;

(2)	change the methodology so as to reduce the amount of the tax being
levied, and at any time thereafter change the methodology, so long as the
subsequent change in methodology does not result in an increase in the
amount being levied under the methodology previously approved by the
voters in the enactment of this Chapter;

(3)	change a methodology or definition so as to avoid or eliminate a
discriminatory tax on taxpayers that are similarly situated, so long as the
change does not result in an increase in the amount levied on such class
of similarly situated taxpayers under the methodology or definition
previously approved by the voters in the enactment of this Chapter;

(4)	establish a class of persons that is exempt or excepted from one or more
taxes hereunder, and at any time thereafter, discontinue such exemption
or exception;

(5)	decide that all or a part of a tax imposed under Section 3.22.040 of this
Chapter should not be enforced for administrative reasons, and at any
time thereafter, decide to enforce the full amount of such tax as
previously approved by the voters in the enactment of this Chapter;

(6)	establish, and at any time thereafter change, the value and/or
apportionment (including a “safe harbor” percentage) of taxable and
nontaxable services that are bundled or packaged under a combined
charge, in response to changes in the marketing of combined services
and the components thereof, or in reevaluating the values thereof; or

(7)	establish exemptions or lower rate percentages for industrial or
economic development zones or for classes of customers therein,
establish rebate programs for the purposes of encouraging economic
development, and at any time thereafter, discontinue such exemptions or

16

lower rate percentages.

3.22.210 Remedies Cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Chapter or which are available under any
other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims
Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act
(Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative. The use of
one or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Chapter.

3.22.220 Interaction with Prior Tax.

A.	Collection of Tax by Service Providers. Service providers shall begin to collect
the tax imposed by this Chapter 3.22 as soon as feasible after the effective date
of this Chapter, but in no event later than permitted by Section 799 of the
California Public Utilities Code.

B.	Satisfaction of Tax Obligation by Service Users. Any person who pays the tax
levied pursuant to Chapter 3.22 with respect to any charge for a communication
service shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pay the tax
levied pursuant to Chapter 3.20 of this Code with respect to that charge.
Likewise, prior to August 1, 2008, any person who pays the tax levied pursuant
to Chapter 3.20 of this Code with respect to any charge for a service subject to
taxation pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her
obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant to Section 3.22.040 of this Chapter with
respect to that charge. The intent of this paragraph is to prevent the imposition
of multiple taxes upon a single utility charge during the transition period from
the prior telephone and video users’ tax to the new Utility users’ tax (which
transition period ends August 1, 2008) and to permit communications service
providers, during that transition period to satisfy their collection obligations by
collecting either tax.

3.22.230 Violation - Penalty.

Any person violating any provision of this Chapter is guilty of an infraction, which upon
conviction thereof is punishable in accordance with the provisions of Section 1.16.010 of
this Code.

SECTION 2. All sections of Chapter 3.20 that conflict with this ordinance are
hereby amended to reflect the provisions of this ordinance. Sections of Chapter 3.20,
dealing with refunds for overpayment, are amended in their entirety to include the
language in 3.22.140 prescribing refund claim compliance with the City’s claims
ordinance. The combined taxes for all services, including electricity, gas,
telecommunications and video services shall not exceed $300.00 annually for any
residential unit. References to a five percent (5%) tax rate which appear at various
locations under Chapter 3.20 are hereby amended to state a tax rate of 4.75 percent
(4.75%) wherever appearing. These amendments include, but are not limited to, the
following:

17

A.	The reference to "....five percent (5%)...." Appearing in the second s
sentence of Paragraph A of Section 3.22.050 (Electricity User’s Tax) is
amended and replaced with "....4.75 percent (4.75%)....”

B.	The reference to "....five percent (5%)..Appearing in the second
sentence of Paragraph A of Section 3.22.060 (Gas User’s Tax) is
amended and replaced with “....4.75 percent (4.75%)....”

SECTION 3. EXISTING CABLE TV FRANCHISE. The City of Winters currently
holds a Franchise Agreement with its existing Cable TV Provider. The franchise fee by
agreement takes account of the Utility Users Tax and, subject to future action by the
Winters City Council, no utility tax will be levied on Cable TV users by the adoption of
this ordinance.

SECTION 4. This ordinance will be applied to satellite and other audio and
video telecommunications, not covered by the existing Utility User’s Tax.

SECTION 5. Effective Date. This chapter shall become effective 10 days after
the date that this Ordinance is adopted by the voters of the City of Winters at the City’s
Consolidated Municipal Election to be held on June 3, 2008.

SECTION 6. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
or portion of this Chapter is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Chapter shall nonetheless
remain in full force and effect. The people hereby declare that they would have adopted
each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Chapter,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses,
phrases, or portions of this Chapter be declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 7. Ratification of Prior Tax. The voters of the City of Winters hereby
ratify and approve the past collection of the Utility User’s Tax under Chapter 3.20 of the
Municipal Code as it existed prior to the effective date of this Ordinance.

SECTION 8. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the
adoption of this Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing where indicated below.

THE RESOLUTION SUBMITTING THIS ORDINANCE TO THE VOTERS OF
THE CITY OF WINTERS FOR ADOPTION WAS INTRODUCED at a regular meeting
on March 4, 2008, and after amendment, ADOPTED at a special meeting of the Winters
City Council, County of Yolo, State of California, on the 11th day of March, 2008, by the
following roll call vote:

AYES:	Council	Members	Aguiar-Curry,	Anderson, Martin, Stone and Mayor Fridae

NOES:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

ABSENT:	None

18

jJLU

erk

Woody Fridae, Mayor

19