Measure D: Parcel Tax, West Contra Costa Unified School District 

To improve education, including reading, writing, math and science, retain quality teachers and counselors, support libraries, computer training and athletic programs, prepare students for college and the workforce, maintain reduced class sizes, maintain school cleanliness and protect against state budget cuts, shall the West County Unified School District renew it existing parcel tax for 5 years, keeping the current rate, with revenue staying at local schools, no funds to administrator salaries, an exemption for seniors and independent citizen oversight?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:
The parcel tax is authorized for a five-year period.

A NO vote on this measure means:
No parcel tax is authorized for a five-year period.

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
The governing board of the West Contra Costa Unified School District has adopted a resolution proposing a parcel tax (a qualified special tax).
The ballot measure asks voters to decide whether the District's existing parcel tax should continue to be imposed on parcels of taxable real property within the District for five years, beginning July 1, 2009 and ending June 30, 2014. The District's existing parcel tax expires on June 30, 2009.
The tax would apply to each parcel of taxable real property in the District. If a parcel has a building on it, the tax would be 7.2 cents per square foot of total building area on the parcel. That means the annual tax on a parcel with a 1,500 square-foot building would be $108. The annual tax on a vacant parcel would be $7.20. A parcel of taxable real property is any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for property taxes from the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. A parcel otherwise exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of the parcel tax.
The ballot measure includes a senior citizen exemption. Any parcel owned and occupied as a principal residence by a person 65 years of age or older would be exempt from the parcel tax upon proper application to the District.
The ballot measure states that the proceeds of the parcel tax will be used to improve education, including reading, writing, math and science; retain quality teachers and counselors; support libraries, computer training, and athletic programs; prepare students for college and the workforce; maintain reduced class sizes; maintain school cleanliness; and protect against state budget cuts. Proceeds from the parcel tax may be used only for the specific purposes set forth in the ballot measure and according to constitutional and statutory provisions. The proceeds from the parcel tax will be deposited into a District account that will be kept separate from other District accounts.
Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the measure for it to pass.
A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax for a five-year period of time.
A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax for a five-year period of time.

Arguments For Measure D
Vote Yes on Measure D so that our students continue to receive the education they need to succeed without raising taxes by a single penny.
Our schools in West Contra Costa Unified School District serve elementary, middle and high school students in Richmond, San Pablo, Hercules, Pinole, El Sobrante, El Cerrito and Kensington. Neighborhood schools are improving education for all students -- and Measure D will continue this success.
With great teachers, our students gain skills to go on to college and professional careers with a strong foundation in reading, writing, math, science and other subjects. These are the academic essentials that help keep kids on the right track, give them skills to keep up with technology and prepare them for success in our global economy.
Measure D will renew vital, existing local school funding that voters approved in 2004. These funds go directly to neighborhood schools to protect educational programs, retain teachers and provide after-school programs that keep kids away from drugs and gangs.
If Measure D fails, our schools will face serious budget cuts to academic programs. We could lose some of our great teachers.
Yes on Measure D
	•	Continue to improve reading, writing, math and science programs
	•	Attract and retain qualified teachers, maintain small classes in kindergarten through 3rd grade
	•	Support libraries and computer technology training
	•	Protect after-school programs to keep youth out of gangs and off drugs
	•	Provide ongoing classroom maintenance
	•	Prepare students for college and careers 
...without raising taxes.
All Measure D funds will stay right here in our local schools -- the state cannot take a single dime.
Independent audits will ensure that Measure D funds are spent wisely.
No Measure D funds can be spent on administrator salaries.
An exemption is available for senior citizen homeowners.
Please join us. Vote YES on Measure D to help our students continue to achieve.
Cathy Garza, President 
Bayside Council of Richmond Parent-Teacher Associations
Michael Booker, Police Officer 
(Title for informational purposes only)
Tom Waller, Board Chairman Richmond Chamber of Commerce,
Phil Lawson, Retired Pastor 
President of the Greater Richmond Interfaith Program 
(GRIP) Board of Directors
Natalie Wojinski, WCCUSD Teacher of the Year 
Hercules High School

Rebuttal to Arguments For
West County Unified School District (District) finances are a disaster, but passing this parcel tax will not solve the real problem. It is not unlike putting a band-aid on a patient who requires open heart surgery.
We urge voters to refuse to approve any tax until the District deals realistically with its financial problems.
The biggest problem is the cost of retiree health care benefits the District granted to its employees after as little as five years of employment.
Since the current parcel tax was approved in 2004, this debt has increased by $430 million + and grows daily. Money that should be going to students will increasingly have to be used to pay for overly generous employee benefits. The District has failed to tackle this huge, and growing, problem.
People in the District are already the most heavily taxed in the county with six extra taxes already imposed by the District. With its pattern of financial mismanagement of our parcel tax and bond money for many years, there is little reason to think this situation will change.
In 2007, the voters wisely rejected the renewal of this parcel tax. We urge you to do the same thing with this tax and send the message that no new taxes will be approved until the District starts to put the interests of the students first.

Please Vote NO on Measure D

For more information see http://WWW.ACCTaxpayers.com
Thomas E. Lynden, C.P.A.
Gregory Engargiola, PhD Parent, Homeowner
Kenneth E. Hambrick, Chairman Alliance of Contra Costa Taxpayers
Kris Hunt, Executive Director Contra Costa Taxpayer Assn.
Terence C. Brandenburg, Teacher Bethel Christian Academy

Arguments Against Measure D
In August 2007, West County voters wisely rejected a renewal of this parcel tax.
This parcel tax, passed by voters as Measure B in 2004, was limited to a five-year period.
In the last five years West County voters have seen:
	•	The liability for post-employment health care retirement benefits increase from $275 million to $727.7million!
	•	Money that should be spent on our children's education - textbooks, library services and attracting and retaining qualified teachers - being used for other expenses.
	•	The district fail to address this huge benefit liability which will continue to take more money from the classroom each year.
	•	WCCUSD oppose citizen initiatives to improve this large district by 1) electing trustees by district and 2) splitting up the District. 
Clearly, WCCUSD's failure to act on these important issues has an adverse effect on West County children as well as property owners who are repeatedly being asked to foot the bill for the District's financial mismanagement. Approval of this parcel tax request will only continue the downward spiral and divert dollars that belong in the classroom to other areas.
The State Trustee recently stated, "This District has to come up with new ways of doing business." We couldn't agree more!

For the future of our children
We urge a NO vote on Measure D
Marilynne L. Mellander 
Save El Sobrante County Coordinator
Camden W. Mc Connell, Chairman 
Libertarian Party of Contra Costa
Patricia K. Casentin 
Music Educator
Shirley Warner 
BART Staff Assistant
Dr. Kent Brandenburg, School Superintendent 
Bethel Christian Academy

Rebuttal to Arguments Against
The argument against Measure D is misleading and inaccurate + and it gives no good reason for taking existing funds away from local students.
Hundreds of committed community leaders and volunteers are constantly involved with our local schools and help guide them in making the best business decisions possible for the education of local students. The simple fact is that the state grossly underfunds West County schools. Without Measure D, our students will suffer.
In fact:
	•	Annual independent audits verify that local funding to be renewed by Measure D has been spent wisely and as promised.
	•	Measure D is essential to continuing this trend of fiscal accountability and academic improvement in our schools.
	•	If we do not pass Measure D, our schools face serious and immediate budget cuts.
	•	Measure D does not increase taxes by a single penny. 
Since 2004, local funds have contributed directly to student success in our schools. This vital local funding will expire soon if Measure D does not pass.
Measure D funds go directly to our local schools to support vital academic programs, retain teachers, keep kids off of drugs and out of gangs, and keep class sizes small, especially for the youngest students in kindergarten through third grade.
Remember, Measure D does not increase taxes. No funds can be taken by the state or be spent on administrator salaries.
Every student deserves a good education. Please join hundreds of school parents, teachers, senior citizens, business and community leaders and vote Yes on Measure D.
Danny Harris, Richmond Police Officer and 
Richmond High School Resource Officer 
(Title forinformational purposes only)
John Ziesenhenne, Richmond Business Owner
Graciela Lechón, El Sobrante resident, 
WCCUSD Elementary School Teacher
Joe Eddy McDonald, Vice-Mayor, City of Hercules
Susan Wittenberg, Retired Executive Director, 
West Contra Costa Public Education Fund

Full Text of Measure D
To improve education, including reading, writing, math and science, retain quality teachers and counselors, support libraries, computer training and athletic programs, prepare students for college and the workforce, maintain reduced class sizes, maintain school cleanliness and protect against state budget cuts, shall the West Contra Costa Unified School District renew its existing parcel tax of 7.2 cents per square foot of total building area, or $7.20 per vacant parcel, for 5 years commencing upon July 1, 2009, keeping the current rate, with revenue staying at local schools, no funds for administrator salaries, an exemption for seniors and independent citizen oversight?

The purpose of the special tax is to improve the quality of education in the District by supporting the following programs:
	•	Enhancing core subjects including reading, writing, mathematics and science,
	•	Retaining quality teachers and counselors to better prepare students for college and the workforce,
	•	Supporting libraries and computer training for students,
	•	Maintaining high school athletic programs,
	•	Maintaining reduced class sizes for kindergarten through third grade students,
	•	Maintaining the cleanliness and good order of our school sites. 
An exemption shall be granted annually on any single family residential parcel or multi-family dwelling unit owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or older who occupies said parcel or unit as a principal residence, upon annual application to the District for exemption.
Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

Accountability
The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only for the specific purposes identified above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into an account, which shall be kept separate and apart from other accounts of the District. No later than January 1 of each year while the tax is in effect, commencing January 1, 2010, the chief fiscal officer of the District shall prepare and file with the Board of Education a report detailing the amount of funds collected and expended during the prior fiscal year, and the status of any project or description of any programs authorized to be funded by this measure. Parcel Tax funds shall also be subject to an annual independent financial audit which shall be made public, including oversight by the Community Budget Advisory Committee and posting on the District's website.

Basis of Tax
The parcel tax shall be an annual tax of 7.2 cents per square foot of total building area on each parcel of taxable real property within the District or a tax of $7.20 per unimproved parcel of taxable real property. The District shall provide the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector a report indicating the parcel number and amount of tax for each parcel of taxable real property. The number of square feet of total building area on improved real property shall be obtained from the Contra Costa County Tax Assessor. If that information is missing from the tax assessor's records, the number of square feet of total building area shall be based upon the records of the building department for the applicable jurisdiction.

Definition of Parcel of Taxable Real Property
"Parcel of taxable real property" shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. All property that is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the parcel tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are exempt from the parcel tax as described above.

Severability
The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.