VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

TOWN OF WINDSOR
MEASURE N

Shall the Town of Windsor Municipal Code be amended to

N increase the transient occupancy tax, commonly called the
“hotel tax,” which is charged only on persons who occupy
hotel rooms in the Town for 30 days or less, from 8 percent
to 12 percent in order to contribute funding towards basic Town
services such as police, street repair, park maintenance, and
community programs?

TOWN COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

The Town of Windsor currently has in place an ordinance that requires any person
who occupies a hotel within the Town limits for 30 consecutive days or less to pay
to the operator of the hotel a transient occupancy tax in the amount of 8% of the
rent charged. Each hotel operator then transfers to the Town the amount collected
for such occupancies. Monies received by the Town in this regard are placed in the
Town’s General Fund and are used to help defray expenses and costs of services
provided by the Town. This tax is levied only on persons who stay in hotels in the
Town for 30 consecutive days or less.

Measure N proposes to amend the Town’s current ordinance to increase the rate of
the tax paid by said occupants of hotels from 8% to 12% of the rent charged by the
hotel operator. A yes vote on Measure N would amend the current ordinance and
allow this increase. A no vote would retain the current ordinance.

This amendment to the Town’s Ordinance shall not become effective until approved
by a majority of the voters voting on the issue at the November 4,2008 election.

si Richard R. Rudnansky
Windsor Town Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Currently, Windsor’s transient occupancy tax rate, commonly called the “hotel
tax,” is the lowest in Sonoma County. Raising the tax from 8% to 12% would bring
Windsor’s tax up to a rate comparable with its neighbors. This tax is levied only
on tourists and other people who stay in hotels in the Town for less than 30 days.
This is a painless way to help keep Windsor such a beautiful place to work, live
and play.

Maintaining Town services such as public safety and emergency services, land-
scaping and improving our parks, keeping our roads safe, providing opportunities
for the youth of our community to grow and leam in a safe environment, and pro-
viding open space has always been a top priority. One way to ensure those public
services continue is to increase the transient occupancy tax. This hotel tax could
generate an additional $300,000 or more every year. The revenue is protected,
and safe from state agency funding grabs. Revenue raised here, stays here.

Local governments are going through tough economic times, and our public ser-
vices are threatened by funding shortfalls. We have the lowest crime rate per capita
in Sonoma County, and pay the lowest costs per capita. We have a wonderful Park
and Recreation program, with a summer event program that brings the whole Town
together. Our street surfaces have the highest rating in the County. The Town is doing
a great job with limited sources of income, but we’re starting to struggle. Addi-
tional revenue will help minimize any cutbacks to public services and help to balance
our budget

We ask you as a Town Council to support this measure that raises tax revenue
from tourists and positively impacts our budget, enabling us to maintain our way of
life in Windsor. Thank you for your consideration and support.

TOWN COUNCIL, TOWN OF WINDSOR

s/ Debora Fudge, Mayor	si	Robin	Goble,	Vice	Mayor

si Steve Allen, Councilmember	s/Warin	Parker,	Councilmember

si Sam Salmon, Councilmember

NO REBUTTAL WAS SUBMITTED TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE N

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

Now here's a really brilliant idea - let's charge tourists more for coming to your
community. Let's put more tax burden on one of the few industries still doing well in
Sonoma County- lets raise the hotel tax on tourists. In the Town of Windsor’s own
language, “The (hotel) tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the Town."
Really, a debt for what? Is it for the privilege of spending their money in the commu-
nity. Folks that come to Windsor pay sales tax on their meals, their purchases and
their hotel rooms. The hotel owner and local merchants already pay business and
property taxes for the infrastructure tourist use. They pass these costs through to
all customers in the prices of products and services. We believe strongly in the ini-
tiative process by which the citizens of California and it's cities and political units
can vote whether to tax themselves. However, this measure allows Windsor to im-
pose a fifty percent tax increase on someone else and that someone has no say at
the ballot box. It is not fair- the “outsider” is being asked to pay an additional tax -
without any logical reason, other than Windsor is short of money and somebody
has to pay to keep those government salaries and benefits high. In the name of
fairness it is time to say enough. Vote No on Measure N.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOC.

s/ Fred Levin, Executive Director

68

9645

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

We urge you to consider the following when voting on Windsor’s hotel tax.

Tourists pay their fair share of the local public services they use, such as police,
streets, parks, and Town Green events when they pay the hotel tax. We don’t think
Windsor residents should subsidize tourists.

Windsor’s hotel tax is the lowest in the county. Raising it to 12% keeps it in line with
nearby cities. Tourism has not declined in those cities due to hotel tax increases.

Windsor does a good job of managing its resources. We have the lowest crime rate
in the county yet we pay the least amount per capita on police services. However,
we still had to cut over $1 million to balance the budget this year.

State government continues to raid cities’ bank accounts to pay for State responsi-
bilities. The hotel tax is a source of revenue that the State cannot steal. The money
raised will stay in Windsor and benefit our community.

Increasing the hotel tax will generate revenue to help pay for the quality police ser-
vices and parks that we, including tourists, all enjoy.

Help us preserve the quality of life and small town, family friendly character of
Windsor. Don't be misled by half truths and cynicism.

Vote Yes on Measure N.

si Debora Fudge	si	Pat McDowell, President

Mayor	Windsor Fire Protection District Board

si Steve Allen	1	si	Cindy Holman

Councilmember	Parks and Recreation Commissioner

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N
EXHIBIT 1

ORDINANCE NO. 2008-________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF WINDSOR AMENDING
TITLE II, CHAPTER 3, ARTICLE II OF THE TOWN OF WINDSOR MUNICIPAL
CODE CONCERNING THE EXISTING TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WINDSOR DOES HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Section 2-3-200 Amended. Section 2-3-200 of the Town of Windsor
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows (with text in strikeout indicat-
ing deletion and double-underlined text indicating addition):

2-3-200 Imposition of Tax; Payment of Tax by Transient.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall
pay a tax in the amount of eight-percent (8%) twelve percent (12%) of the rent
charged by the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the
Town, which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the Town. The
transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If
the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with
each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to oc-
cupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of
the hotel, the Tax Administrator may require that such tax shall be paid directly to
the Tax Administrator by the transient or the operator.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of this ordinance, in-
cluding the application of such part or provisions to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect. To this end,
provisions of this ordinance are severable. The People of the Town of Windsor
hereby declare that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase hereof irrespective of the fact that any one
or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or
phrases be held unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable.

SECTION 3. Election Required for Tax to be Effective. The tax proposed by this
ordinance shall not become effective until approved by a majority of the voters vot-
ing on the issue at the November 4,2008 election.

SECTION 4. Effective Date of Tax. If this ordinance is approved by a majority
of the voters voting on the issue at the November 4, 2008 election, pursuant to
Elections Code Section 9217, this ordinance shall be considered adopted on and
the tax shall become effective ten (10) days after the Town Council certifies the
results of the election.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the Town of Windsor on Novem-
ber 4,2008:

69

9645