ORDINANCE NO. 7133

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PASADENA,
CALIFORNIA AMENDING CHAPTER 4.56 OF THE
PASADENA MUNICIPAL CODE TO MODERNIZE THE
APPLICATION OF THE UTILITY USERS TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF PASADENA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Code Amendment. Section 4.56.020 of the Pasadena Municipal
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

4.56.020	Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section govern the construction of this chapter.

A.	“Ancillary Telecommunications Services” means services that
are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of
telecommunications services including, but not limited to, the following:

(1)	Services that link two or more participants of an audio or video
conference call, including the provision of a telephone number.

(2)	Services that separately state information pertaining to individual calls
on a customer’s billing statement.

(3)	Services that provide telephone number information, and/or address
information.

(4)	Services offered in connection with one or more telecommunications
services, which offer advanced calling features that allow customers to
identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections.

(5)	Services that enable customers to store, send or receive recorded
messages.

B.	“Billing address” means the mailing address of the service user where
the service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

C.	“City” means the city of Pasadena.

-1 -

83092.14

D.	“City administrator” means the city manager, or his or her authorized
representative.

E.	“Exempt wholesale generator” has the same meaning as set forth in the
Federal Power Act (15 U.S.C. Section 79z-5a) and regulations thereunder.

F.	“Gas” means natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon
fuel that may be substituted therefor.

G.	“Gross annual income” means all income regardless of source and
includes, but is not limited to, income subject to federal and state income taxation,
social security payments, pensions, welfare payments, interest on tax-exempt
investments, gifts and inheritances.

H.	“Month” means a calendar month.

I.	“Nonutility service supplier” means:

1.	A service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution
services to all or a significant portion of the city, which generates electricity
for sale to others, and shall include but is not limited to any publicly-owned
electric utility, investor-owned utility, cogenerator, distributed generation
provider, exempt wholesale generator, municipal utility district, federal
power marketing agency, electric rural cooperative, or other supplier or
seller of electricity;

2.	An electric service provider (ESP) , electricity broker, marketer,
aggregator, pool operator, or other electricity supplier other than a supplier
of electric distribution services to all or a significant portion of the city, which
sells or supplies electricity or supplemental services to electricity users
within the city; and

3.	A gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than
a supplier of gas distribution services to all or a significant portion of the
city, which sells or supplies gas or supplemental services to gas users
within the city.

J.	“Person” means, without limitation, any domestic, nonprofit or foreign
corporation; firm; trust; estate; association; syndicate; joint stock company; limited
liability company; partnership of any kind; joint venture; club; Massachusetts
business or common-law trust; society; any natural individual; cooperative;
receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court;
municipal district; or municipal corporation (other than the city).

83092 14

-2 -

K.	“Service address” means the residential street address or the business
street address of the service user’s primary place of usage.

L.	“Service supplier” means any entity or person that provides telephone
communication, electric, gas, water or video service to a user of such services
within the city. The term includes any entity or person required to collect, or self-
collect under Section 4.56.055, and to remit a tax imposed by this chapter,
including the billing agent of such an entity or person in the case of electric, gas,
water or video service suppliers.

M.	“Service user” means a person required to pay a tax imposed by this
chapter.

N.	“Tax administrator” means the revenue administrator of the city of
Pasadena.

O.	“Telephone communication services” includes the transmission,
conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or
signals to a point, or between or among points, whether or not such information is
transmitted through interconnected service with the public switched network,
whatever the technology used, whether such transmission, conveyance or routing
occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic, light wave, laser, microwave, radio wave
(including, but not limited to, cellular service, commercial mobile service, personal
communications service (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), and other types
of personal wireless service - see 47 USCA Section 332(c) (7) (C) (i) - regardless
of radio spectrum used), switching facilities, satellite or any other technology now
existing or developed after the adoption of this ordinance, and includes, without
limitation, fiber optic, coaxial cable, and wireless. The term “telephone
communication services” includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in
which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, code or
protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without
regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet protocol
(VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal Communications Commission as
enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data services that are
functionally integrated with telecommunications services. “Telephone
communication services” include, but are not limited to, the following services,
regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed:
central office and custom calling features (including but not limited to call waiting,
call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling), local number portability,
text messaging, ancillary telecommunication services, prepaid and post-paid
telecommunications services (including but not limited to prepaid calling cards);
mobile telecommunications service; private telecommunication service; paging
service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission); and value-added non-voice data service. For
purposes of this section, “private telecommunication service” means any dedicated
telephone communications service that entitle a user to exclusive or priority use of
communications channels.

83092.14

-3-

P.	“Telephone corporation,” “electrical corporation,” “gas corporation,” and
“water corporation” have the same meanings as defined in Sections 234, 218, 222,
and 241, respectively, of the Public Utilities Code of the state of California, as said
sections existed on January 1, 1969. “Electrical corporation” and “water
corporation” shall be construed to include any municipality or franchised agency
engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power or water to a service user.

Q.	“Video service supplier” means any person, company, or service which
provides one or more channels of video programming, including any
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use and
enjoyment of the video programming, to or from an address in the city, including to
or from a business, home, condominium, or apartment, where some fee is paid,
whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that service, whether or
not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or
communications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited to,
multichannel video programming distributors (as defined in 47 USCA Section
522(13)), open video systems (OVS) suppliers, suppliers of cable television,
master antenna television, satellite master antenna television, multichannel
multipoint distribution services (MMDS), direct broadcast satellite (to the extent
allowed by federal law), and other suppliers of video programming or
communications (including two-way communications), whatever their technology.

R.	“Video services” means any and all services related to the providing of
video programming (including origination programming), including any
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use or enjoyment
of the video programming, regardless of the content of such video programming or
communications. “Video services” does not include services for which a tax is paid
under Section 4.56.030.

Section 2. Code Amendment. Section 4.56.030 of the Pasadena Municipal
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

4.56.030	Telephone tax.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every person, other than a telephone
corporation, who uses telephone communication services in the city, including
intrastate, interstate, and international telephone communication services, to the
extent permitted by federal and state law. The telephone users tax is intended to,
and does, apply to all charges within the city’s tax jurisdiction, such as charges
billed to a telephone account having a situs in the city as permitted by the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000, 4 U.S.C. § 116 et seq. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate established under Section 4.56.180(A).
The tax shall apply to all charges made for such telephone communication
services and shall be collected from the service user by the telephone
communication services supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable

83092.14

-4 -

presumption that telephone communication services billed to a billing or service
address in the city are used, in whole or in part, within the city’s boundaries, and
that such services are subject to taxation under this chapter. There is also a
rebuttable presumption that telephone communication services sold within the city
that are not billed to a billing address or provided to a primary physical location are
used, in whole or in part, within the city’s boundaries and that such services are
subject to taxation under this chapter.

B.	As used in this section, the term ‘charges’ shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for the telephone communication
services.

C.	The tax administrator may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this chapter administrative rulings identifying those
telecommunication services that are subject to the tax of subsection A of this
section. Such administrative rulings shall be consistent with legal nexus and laws
pertaining to telephone communications services and shall not impose a new tax,
revise an existing tax methodology, or increase an existing tax, except as allowed
by California Government Code Section 53750(h) (2) and (3) or other law. The tax
administrator may consider state-wide interpretive rules and guidelines
promulgated by any government agency or association of government agencies as
a factor in determining the intent of voters adopting this section. To the extent that
the tax administrator determines that the tax imposed under this section shall not
be collected in full for any period of time, such an administrative ruling falls within
the tax administrator’s discretion to settle disputes. The tax administrator’s
exercise of prosecutorial forbearance under this Chapter does not constitute a
change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code section
53750(h), and the city does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose the
telephone users’ tax in full as a result of issuing such administrative rulings and
may suspend such rulings and recommence collection of the tax without additional
voter approval.

D.	The following shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section:

(1)	Charges paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones
available to the public with respect to local telephone service, or with respect to
long distance telephone service if the charge for such long distance telephone
service is less than 25 cents; except that where such coin-operated telephone
service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such
guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be subject to the
tax.

(2)	Except with respect to local telephone service, on any charges for
services used in the collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker

83092.14

- 5 -

service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press, or
radio broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news through the public press, or a
news ticker service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public
press, or by means of radio broadcasting, if the charge for such service is billed in
writing to such person.

(3)	Charges for services furnished to an international organization
designated under the International Organizations Immunities Act and defined in 22
USCA 288 or to the American National Red Cross.

(4)	Charges for any long distance telephone service which originates within
a combat zone, as defined in section 112 of the Internal Revenue Code, from a
member of the Armed Forces of the United States performing service in such
combat zone, as determined under such section, provided a certificate, setting
forth such facts as the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may by regulations
prescribe, is furnished to the person receiving such payment.

(5)	Charges for any long distance telephone service to the extent that the
amount so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company,
or radio broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its business as such.

(6)	Amounts paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to such
organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term “nonprofit hospital” means
a hospital referred to in Internal Revenue Code section 170(b)(1)(A)(iii) which is
exempt from income tax under Internal Revenue Code section 501(a).

(7)	Charges for services or facilities furnished to the government of any
State, or any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia.

(8)	Charges paid by a nonprofit educational organization for services or
facilities furnished to such organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term
“nonprofit educational organization” means an educational organization described
in Internal Revenue Code section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) which is exempt from income tax
under Internal Revenue Code section 501(a). The term also includes a school
operated as an activity of an organization described in Internal Revenue Code
section 501(c)(3) which is exempt from income tax under Internal Revenue Code
section 501(a), if such school normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum
and normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at
the place where its educational activities are regularly carried on.

(9)	Charges for telephone channel facilities used by a cable television
corporation in supplying cable television service to its customers

(10)	Charges for “private mobile radio service” (as defined in Part 20 of Title
47 of the Code of Federal Regulations) or “private mobile service” (as defined in

83092 14

-6-

47 USCA Section 332(d)) which is not interconnected to the public switched
network.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telephone
communication services subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon
proof to the tax administrator that the service user has previously paid the same
tax in another American jurisdiction on such telephone communication services,
shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of
such tax legally imposed in such other jurisdiction; provided, however, the amount
of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the city under this section. This
ordinance shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition and collection of
the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by California and federal law, and
as it may change from time to time.

F.	The tax on telephone communication services imposed by this section
shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the tax administrator, and must be
received by the tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the
following month.

G.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit
a tax under this subchapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the
utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as that
law may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by statutory
enactment. Any telephone communication service (including VoIP) used by a
person with a service address in the city, which service is capable of terminating a
call to another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to a
rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exists for
purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under
this chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the
city to be obligated to collect and remit the tax imposed by this chapter if it does
any of the following: maintains or has within the city, directly or through an agent
or subsidiary, a place of business of any nature; solicits business in the city by
employees, independent contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives;
solicits business in the city by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed
from a transmitter within the city or distributed from a location within the city; or
advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the city
or through materials distributed in the city by means other than the United States
mail.

Section 3. Code Addition. A new Section 4.56.230 of the Pasadena Municipal
Code is hereby adopted to read as follows:

83092.14

-7-

4.56.230	Effect of state and federal authorization

To the extent that the city’s authorization to impose or collect any tax
imposed under this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state
or federal law, no amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to
conform the tax to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to
the full extent of the city’s authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed
under this chapter.

Section 4. Code Addition. A new Section 4.56.240 of the Pasadena Municipal
Code is hereby adopted to read as follows:

4.56.240 Independent Audit

The city shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this chapter have
been properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this
chapter, and properly expended according to applicable law. The annual
verification shall be performed by a qualified independent third party and the
review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance,
including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be required of as to
a service supplier where the cost of the verification is expected to exceed the tax
revenues to be reviewed.

Section 5. Utility Rates. This Ordinance does not change the existing rate of
any tax imposed under Chapter 4.56 of the Pasadena Municipal Code. A table of
the existing rates of the taxes imposed under that Chapter 4.56 is attached hereto
as Attachment 1.

Section 6. Low-Income Senior and Disabled Persons Exemptions. This
Ordinance does not change the existing exemptions for low-income seniors and
disabled persons from the any tax imposed under Chapter 4.56 of the Pasadena
Municipal Code as specified in Section 4.56.210 of that Chapter. Any change to
those exemptions which constitutes a tax increase within the meaning of
Government Code Section 53750(h) shall require a vote of the People of the City
of Pasadena.

Section 7. Amendment of Ordinance. Chapter 4.56 of the Pasadena Municipal
Code as amended by this Ordinance may be repealed or amended by the City
Council without a vote of the people except as follows: as required by
Propositions 62 and 218, any amendment to that chapter that increases the
amount or rate of tax beyond the levels authorized by this Ordinance may not take
effect unless approved by a vote of the people. The City Council may impose the
taxes authorized by that chapter in any amount or rate which does not exceed the
rate approved by the voters of the City.

83092.14

-8-

Section 8. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of
this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or
portions of this ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The
people of the City of Pasadena hereby declare that they would have adopted each
section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this
Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of
this Ordinance are severable.

Section 9. Majority Approval; Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be effective
only if approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon and shall go into effect
ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED this 10th day of
March 2008.

Bill Bogaard
Mayor of the City of Pasadena

I	HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing ordinance was passed,
approved and adopted, and has become effective as of the following dates:

Date of Election:	February 5, 2008

Date of Adoption:	March 10, 2008 (date canvass results were declared

and accepted by City Council)

Yes Votes:	21,375	(58.41%)

NoVotes:	15,219	(41.59%)

Effective Date:	March 20, 2008

Special Counsel

83092.14

-9-

Attachment 1

Existing UUT Rates by Utility Service

Cable Television	9.4%

Telephone (Intrastate, Interstate, International and Wireless)	8.28%

Natural Gas	7.9%

Electricity	7.67%

Water	7.67%

83092.14

-10-