IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN LEANDRO

RESOLUTION NO. 2008-099	(1055/3142)

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SAN LEANDRO ESTABLISHING
NOVEMBER 4, 2008, AS THE DATE FOR AN ELECTION ON A
PROPOSED BALLOT MEASURE SEEKING VOTER APPROVAL
RELATING TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF A POLICE SERVICES
PARCEL TAX, ESTABLISHING THE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
FOR SUCH AN ELECTION AND REQUESTING THAT THE COUNTY
OF ALAMEDA CONDUCT SUCH AN ELECTION

Recitals

WHEREAS, at its regular meeting of June 7, 2008, the City Council of the City of San
Leandro considered placement of a measure on the November 4, 2008 ballot to request voter
approval of a parcel tax; and

WHEREAS, in adopting the fiscal year 2008-09 budget, the Council concluded that
additional funding is necessary for police services; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2(d), provides that no local
government may impose any special tax unless and until that tax is submitted to the electorate
and approved by a two-thirds vote; and

WHEREAS, the special tax to be submitted to the voters, if approved, would be paid by
residential and commercial/industrial properties generally proportionate to their use of police

services; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council determines it is appropriate
to place a measure regarding the police services parcel tax before the voters at the November 4,
2008 general election; and

WHEREAS, the San Leandro City Council is authorized by California Elections Code
Section 9222 to place measures before the voters; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the election be consolidated with the statewide election
to be held on the same date and that within the City, the precincts, polling places and election
officers of the two elections be the same, and that the county election department of the County
of Alameda canvass the returns of the General Election and that the election be held in all
respects as if there were only one election.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of San Leandro does RESOLVE as
follows:

1

1. Placement of Measure on the Ballot. Pursuant to California Elections Code
Section 9222, the City Council hereby resolves that the ballot for the November 4, 2008 election
shall include a measure that, if approved, would impose on real property a police services parcel
tax, beginning January 1, 2009 through June 30, 2014 to pay for police services.

(a)	Ballot Language

The ballot language for the measure shall be as follows:

POLICE SERVICES PARCEL TAX MEASURE. Shall the current level	
of police protection services be maintained at a minimum of 94 sworn	YES
police officers by adoption of a parcel tax in an annual amount of $48 for	
single-family residences, $24 per multi-family/mobile home unit, $12 per	
thousand square feet for Commercial/Industrial, $10 per thousand square	
feet for Non-Profit/Places of Worship and $3 per thousand square feet for	NO
Unimproved Land, to end after four years?	

2.	Proposed Ordinance. The ordinance authorizing the special tax to be approved
by the voters pursuant to Section 1 is as set forth in Exhibit 1 hereto. The City Council hereby
approves the submission of the ordinance to the voters of the City at the November 4, 2008
election.

3.	Publication of Measure. The City Clerk is hereby directed to cause notice of the
measure to be published once in the official newspaper of the City of San Leandro, in accordance
with Section 12111 of the Elections Code and Section 6061 of the Government Code.

4.	Request to Consolidate and Conduct Election and Canvass Returns.

(a)	Pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the Elections Code, the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Alameda is hereby requested to consent and agree to the
consolidation of a General Municipal Election with the Statewide Election on Tuesday,
November 4, 2008, for the purpose of placing the measure set forth in Section 1 on the ballot.

(b)	The County of Alameda Election Department is authorized to canvass the returns
of the General Municipal Election. The election shall be held in all respects as if there were only
one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

(c)	The Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the County of
Alameda Election Department to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the
consolidated election.

(d)	The City of San Leandro recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the
County of Alameda by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County for any
costs.

2

5.	Submission of Ballot Argument and Impartial Analysis.

(a)	The last day for submission of direct arguments for or against the measure shall
be by 5:00 p.m. on August 11,2008.

(b)	The last day for submission of rebuttal arguments for or against the measure shall
be by 5:00 p.m. on August 21,2008.

(c)	Direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred (300) words and shall be signed
by not more than five persons.

(d)	Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed two hundred fifty (250) words and shall be
signed by not more than five persons; those persons may be different persons than the persons
who signed the direct arguments.

(e)	The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure by August
21,2008.

(f)	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9282, the Revenue Ad Hoc
Committee of the City Council (“Ad Hoc Committee”) is hereby authorized to prepare a written
argument in favor of the proposed measure, not to exceed three hundred (300) words, on behalf
of the City Council. At the Ad Hoc Committee’s discretion, the argument may also be signed by
members of the City Council or bona fide associations or by individual voters who are eligible to
vote on the measure. In the event that an argument is filed against the measure, the Ad Hoc
Committee is also authorized to prepare a rebuttal argument on behalf of the City Council, which
may also be signed by members of the City Council or bona fide associations or by individual
voters who are eligible to vote on the measure.

(g)	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9285, when the City Clerk has
selected the arguments for and against the measure, which will be printed and distributed to the
voters, the City Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the measure to the authors of
the argument against, and copies of the argument against to the authors of the argument in favor.
Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the direct arguments. Each rebuttal
argument shall immediately follow the direct argument, which it seeks to rebut.

6.	Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
its passage and adoption and the City Clerk is directed to send certified copies of this Resolution
to the Alameda County Board of Supervisors, to the County Clerk-Recorder, and the County of
Alameda Election Department.

7.	CEQA. This Resolution is exempt from the California Environmental
Quality Act (Public Resources Code Section 21000, “CEQA”) pursuant to CEQA guidelines
15060, “Preliminary Review,” subdivision (c)(2) in that it will not result in a direct or reasonably
foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment; and 15378, “Project,” subdivisions (2)
and (4) of subdivision (b), in that this tax does not constitute a project under CEQA and therefore
review under CEQA is not required.

RESOLUTION NO. 2008-099

3

Introduced by Councilmember Grant and passed and adopted this 28th day of Julv 2008
by the following called vote:	•r’	’

Members of the Council:

AYES:	Councilmembers Grant, Gregory, Prola, Souza; Mayor Santos

NOES:	Councilmember Stephens

ABSENT: None

ABSTAIN: Councilmember Starosciak

(5)

0)

(0)

(1)

ATTEST

:	~~VMJLUMa 4

Marian Handa, City Clerk

RESOLUTION NO. 2008-099

4

EXHIBIT 1

IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN LEANDRO

ORDINANCE NO. 2008-_

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 2 OF THE SAN LEANDRO MUNICIPAL CODE
BY ADDING CHAPTER 19 ENTITLED POLICE SERVICES TAX

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF SAN LEANDRO AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT OF CODE

Title 2 of the San Leandro Municipal Code is hereby amended to add a new Chapter 2-
19 and shall read as follows:

“CHAPTER 19”
POLICE SERVICES TAX

Sec. 2-19-100 PURPOSE, INTENT AND AUTHORITY.

(a)	It is the purpose and intent of this Ordinance to authorize the levy of a tax on owners of real
property that are within the city limits of the City of San Leandro (“City”) in order to provide
funding for police protection services to serve the property and persons within the City.

(b)	This Ordinance is adopted pursuant to Government Code section 53978. The tax proposed
herein shall be effective only if approved by two-thirds of the voters, as further specified herein.

(c)	The tax is a special tax within the meaning of Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Article XIIIC
of the California Constitution because it will be used for specific purposes.

(d)	Because the burden of this tax falls upon property owners who have developed their
property, or whose non-development of property necessitates municipal services, this tax is an
excise tax. This tax is not determined according to nor in any manner based upon the value of
property. Rather, it is based on the privilege of using and the use of police services by developed
and some undeveloped properties and on the availability of police and fire services to developed
properties within the City.

(e)	The revenues raised by this tax are to be used solely for the purposes of obtaining,
furnishing, operating, and maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, for paying the
salaries and benefits of police protection personnel, and for such other police protection service
expenses as are deemed necessary for the benefit of the residents of the City. 1

1

(a)	The City Council (“Council”) recognizes that residentially and non-residentially developed
parcels both use police protection services. The Council has, therefore, determined that the tax
should be imposed on both residentially and non-residentially developed properties, and that the tax
on each type of property should be proportionate to their use of the services.

(b)	The apportionment of the tax to various types of properties is based, in part, on the intensity
of police protection services requested for different kinds of land uses and on the average number of
occupants of a parcel of each type of property. The Council finds that users of residential property
typically generate more calls for service from the police department. Therefore, it is appropriate for
the residential property owners to bear a higher percentage of the burden on residential property.

(c)	The rates are not tailored to individual use both because such tailoring is not administratively
feasible and because the City must make police protection services available to all parcels and
owners of parcels equally.

(d)	The Council finds that lower income senior citizen residential property owners may be
disproportionately affected by this tax, as a higher proportion of these owners will be on a fixed
income. The Council has determined that it is appropriate to permit lower income senior citizen
residential property owners to apply to the City for a reduced tax rate.

(e)	The Council finds that the operators of non-profit educational facilities and places of worship
operate without a margin for profit and in a manner that provides many community benefits. The
Council has determined that owners of property used for non-profit educational uses and places of
worship shall be subject to the tax at a lower rate than that charged to other improved parcels.

(f)	Parcels that are unimproved contain no occupants who may avail themselves of police
services, but they generally require some police and fire protection services to protect property and
may be the response site of rescue calls to the police department. Accordingly, the Council has
determined that owners of unimproved shall be subject to this tax at lower rate than is placed on
improved parcels.

By approving this Ordinance, the People of the City of San Leandro confirm and adopt these
findings in this Section 2-19-105.

Sec. 2-19-110 DEFINITIONS.

The following definitions shall apply throughout this Ordinance.

(a)	“Developed” shall be defined in administrative regulations adopted pursuant to this
Ordinance.

2

(b)	“Fiscal year” means the period of July 1 through the following June 30.

(c)	“Occupied” shall be defined in administrative regulations adopted pursuant to this
Ordinance.

(d)	“Lower income senior citizen residential property owner” shall be defined in administrative
regulations adopted pursuant to this Ordinance.

(e)	“Mixed use” shall be defined in administrative regulations adopted pursuant to this
Ordinance.

(f)	“Multi-family” shall mean 2 or more residential units.

(g)	“Parcel” means the land and any improvements thereon, designated by an assessor’s parcel
map and parcel number and carried on the secured property tax roll of Alameda County.

(h)	“Police Protection Services” means obtaining, furnishing, operating, and maintaining police
protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police protection
personnel, and such other police protection service expenses as are deemed necessary by the
City Council for the benefit of the residents of the City.

(i)	“Unimproved” shall be defined in administrative regulations adopted pursuant to this
Ordinance.

Sec. 2-19-115 AMOUNT AND LEVEL OF TAXES.

(a)	The tax on each parcel of real property in the City shall depend on the use code assigned to
the property by the Alameda County Assessor. The tax per year on each parcel in the City shall not
exceed the amount applicable to the parcel, as specified below.

(b)	No later than July 15 of each year, City Manager shall determine the amount of taxes to be
levied upon the parcels in the City for the then current fiscal year as set forth below. 1

Description	Associated Use codes 1	Rate
Commercial/  Industrial	31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39,41,42,43,  44, 45, 46, 48, 49, 67, 68, 80,81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99	$12.00 per thousand square feet
Residential-Single  Family	11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 73	$48.00 per unit
Residential-Multi family/Mobile home	19, 21, 22, 23,24, 25, 26,27, 28, 29, 71, 72, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 91	$24.00 per unit

1 See Exhibit A, attached hereto, for description of use codes.

Unimproved	08,09,10, 30, 40, 60, 70	$3.00 per thousand square feet
Non-profit education/Places of worship	64, 66	$10.00 per thousand square feet
Exempt	03,04, 05,07,47,61,63,65	0.00

The tax on mixed-use property shall be based on the predominant use of the property. The exact
procedure for determining the predominant shall be defined more specifically in administrative
guidelines adopted pursuant to this Ordinance.

(c)	The City Council shall adopt administrative guidelines that will allow lower income senior
citizen residential property owners aged 65 years and older to apply for and receive a reduction in
the tax not to exceed 40% of the amount of the tax paid by the property owner.

(d)	As authorized by Government Code section 53739(b), annually each My, the City Manager
shall adjust the tax rates for each land use type listed in this Section by applying in the percentage
increase, if any, in the annual Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage and Clerical Workers (CPI-W)
for the San Francisco/Oakland Bay Area.

(e)	The taxes levied on each parcel pursuant to this Article shall be a charge upon the parcel and
shall be due and collectible as set forth in Section 2-19-120 below.

Sec. 2-19-120 COLLECTION AND ADMINISTRATION.

The tax levied and imposed by this Ordinance shall be due and payable on My 1 of each year.
If the City elects to have the County collect this tax it may be paid in two installments due no later than
December 10 and April 10. The tax shall be delinquent if not received on or before the delinquency
date set forth in the notice mailed to the Owner’s address as shown on the most current assessment roll
of the Alameda County Tax Collector and shall be collected in such a manner as the City Council may
decide.

The City is authorized, at its option, to have the taxes imposed by this Ordinance collected by
the County of Alameda in conjunction with and at the same time and in the same manner as the
County’s collection of property taxes for the City of San Leandro. If the City elects to so collect the
tax, penalties and interest shall be those applicable to the nonpayment of property taxes.

Regardless of the method of collection, in no event shall anything herein be construed to
impose a tax lien on the Parcel to secure payment of the tax.

4

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be accounted for and paid into a
special revenue account designated for support of Police Protection Services only.

SEC. 2-19-130 DETERMINATION OF USES.

The records of the County Assessor of the County of Alameda and the records of the City may be
used to determine the actual use of each parcel of real property for purposes of determining the tax
hereunder.

Sec. 2-19-135	EXEMPTIONS.

The tax imposed hereby shall not apply to the owner of any parcel that, for any reason, is legally
exempt therefrom.

Sec. 2-19-140	REFUNDS - CLAIM REQUIRED.

Any person claiming a refund of the tax for any reason not provided for herein shall first file a
written claim with the City Clerk on a form specified by the Clerk. Such claim must be filed no later
than 100 days after payment of the tax. All claims must be filed by the person who paid the tax or
his or her guardian, conservator, or the executor of his or her estate. No claim may be filed on behalf
of other taxpayers or a class of taxpayers. Filing of a claim shall be a condition precedent to legal
action against the City for a refund of the tax.

Sec. 2-19-145	UNTIMELY OR UNPAID TAXES.

A one-time penalty not to exceed 25 percent (25%) of the tax due is hereby imposed on all
taxpayers who fail to pay the tax provided by this Ordinance when due. The penalty shall become a
part of the tax debt herein required to be paid. In addition, if the tax remains unpaid as of July 1 of
the following year, an additional penalty of one and one-half percent per month shall accrue on all
amounts unpaid. Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this
Ordinance shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

The amount of any tax or penalty imposed under the provisions of this Ordinance shall be
deemed a debt to the City. Any person owing money under the provisions of this Ordinance shall be
personally liable for such amount in any action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of
the amount owed. The City will be entitled to recover from the person against whom such an action
is brought its costs incurred in connection with such action including its reasonable attorney’s fees.

SECTION 2. APPROPRIATIONS LIMITATION.

In no case shall the revenues generated by the tax levied and imposed by this Ordinance exceed
the limitation established by Article XIIIB of the Constitution of the State of California.

5

SECTION 3.

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERPRETATION.

The Council may, by resolution, adopt guidelines for administrative matters related to the
interpretation and enforcement of this Ordinance. Such guidelines may establish new use codes or
may modify use codes listed in Section 2-19-115. Such guidelines may additionally provide for
administrative remedies for challenges to the tax imposed by this Ordinance.

SECTION 4.	SAVINGS CLAUSE.

If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Ordinance is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such finding shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause,
section or part, and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining parts of the Ordinance. The City
Council finds and declares that it would have adopted each and every provision of this Ordinance,
even if it had not adopted any other provision.

SECTION 5.	AUTHORITY FOR ORDINANCE.

This Ordinance is enacted pursuant to the authority of Government Code Section 53978,
Government Code Section 50077, and Article XIIID, Section 3(a) of the California Constitution.

SECTION 6.	CHALLENGE TO TAX.

Any action to challenge the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be brought pursuant to
Government Code Section 50077.5 and Code of Civil Procedure Section 860 et seq.

SECTION 7. ELECTION REQUIRED FOR TAX TO BE EFFECTIVE.

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately following adoption. Notwithstanding the effective
date of this Ordinance, the tax proposed by this Ordinance shall not become effective until the date
set forth in Section 8.

SECTION 8. EFFECTIVE DATE AND REPEAL DATE OF TAX.

If this Ordinance is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting at the November 4, 2008
municipal election, the tax shall become effective on January 1,2009. This Ordinance is repealed
four (4) years after the effective date unless extended by the voters.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of San Leandro on
__________________, 2008.

ADOPTED by Declaration of the vote by the City Council of the City of San Leandro on
__________, 2008:

6

Members of the Council:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAINING:

SO ORDERED	ATTEST:

Anthony B. Santos, Mayor	Marian Handa, City Clerk

7

Exhibit - A

ALAMEDA COUNTY ASSESSOR’S OFFICE USE CODES

FIRST AND SECOND DIGIT CODES

4xxx Series: Industrial

Oxxx Series: exempt, not assessed by county, mobile homes, tracts

00	Use codes not assigned

01	Use codes not assigned

02	Use codes not assigned

03	Exempt public agencies

04	Leased by a public utility

05	Owned by a public utility

06	Use codes not assigned

07	Mobile home in mobile home
park

08	Vacant residential tract lot

09	Partially complete residential
tract home

Ixxx Series: single-family residential

10	Vacant residential land zoned for four units or less

11	Single-family residential home used as such

12	Single-family home w/non-economic 2nd living unit

13	Single-family residentail home w/slight commerical use

14	Single-family residential home w/slight industrial use

15	Planned development (townhouse type)

16	Single-family residential land w/or subject to communal
improvement

17	Single-family residential home converted to boarding or rooming
house w/shared kitchesn and/or baths

18	Planned development (tract type) with/commonly owned area

19	Mobile home on single family residential land

2xxx Series: multiple residential (2-4 units'), mobile homes

20	Use Code not assigned

21	2, 3 or 4 single-family homes

22	Double or duplex

23	Triplex: double or duplex w/single-family residential home

24	4 living units: fourplex, triplex w/single-family residential home,
2 Doubles or duplexes, etc.

25	Residential property w/2 living units either or both of which are
lesser quality than code 22

26	Residential property w/3 living units either or both of which are
lesser quality than code 23

27	Residential property w/4 living units either or both of which are
lesser quality than code 24

28	Residential property with 2, 3 or 4 identifiable living units
w/rooming or boarding use

29	More than one mobile home, or one mobile home plus other
residential living units on residential land

3xxx Series: Commercial

30	Vacant commercial land

31	1-story store

32	Store on 1st floor with offices, apartments or lofts on 2nd or
2nd and 3rd floors

33	Miscellaneous commercial (improved)

34	Department store

35	Discount house

36	Restaurant

37	Shopping Center

38	Supermarket

39	Commercial or industrial condominium before sale of 1 unit

40	Vacant industrial land

41	Warehouse

42	Light industrial

43	Heavy industrial

44	Miscellaneous industrial

45	Nurseries

46	Quarries, sand, gravel

47	Salt ponds

48	Terminals, tracking,
distribution

49	Wrecking yards

6xxx Series: Institutional

60	Vacant land that is a necessary part of an institutional
property

61	Improved government-owned property

62	Use codes not assigned

63	Golf Courses

64	Schools

65	Cemeteries

66	Churches

67	Other institutional properties

68	Lodge halls and clubhouses

69	Use codes not assigned

7xxx Series: multiple residential, 5 or more units

70	Vacant apartment land capable of supporting 5 or more units

71	5 or more single-family residential homes

72	Residential property converted to 5 or more units

73	Condominiums

74	Cooperatives

75	Restricted-income properties

76	Fraternities, sororities

77	Multiple residential properties (5 or more units)

78	Residential high-rise (7+ stories)

79	Church homes

8xxx Series: improved commercial

80	CarWashes	86

81	Commercial garages (repair) 87

82	Car dealerships	88

83	Parking lots

84	Parking garages	89

85	Service stations

9xxx Series: improved commercial

90	Motel	95	Over 5-story offices
91	Mobile home parks	96	Bowling alleys
92	Banks	97	Theaters
93	Medical/dental	98	Theaters (drive-in)
94	1- to 5-story offices	99	Other recreational activity

Funeral homes
Nursing homes
Hospital (general,
convalescent)
Hotels