RESOLUTION NO 2008- pfL.

EL MEDIO FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
3515 MYERS STREET, OROVILLE CA 95966

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE EL MEDIO FIRE PROTECTION
DISTRICT CALLING AND PROVIDING FOR AN ELECTION TO BE HELD IN SAID DISTRICT
ON NOVEMBER 4, 2008 FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS
THE QUESTION OF THE ADOPTION OF A SPECIAL TAX FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND
FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES AND SAID ELECTION SHALL BE HANDLED BY THE BUTTE

COUNTY ELECTIONS DEPARTMENT

BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Directors of the El Medio Fire Protection District (hereafter referred
to as the District) as follows:

1.	The Board of Directors is authorized to provide emergency response and fire protection services.

2.	The Board of Directors has determined that it is in the best interests of the District's citizens to have
adequate levels of emergency medical response and fire protection services; that the cost to maintain such
adequate levels of service is beyond the reach of the District absent this proposed special tax and that this
tax is therefore necessary for public protection and public safety. Accordingly, the resolution obtained
herein shall take effect immediately upon approval of the eligible voters of the District, and shall be
levied for fiscal year 2008-09 and each fiscal year thereafter.

3.	An election is hereby called for the purpose of submitting to the qualified voters within the District, the
question of the adoption of a special tax for fire protection and prevention. This election shall be
consolidated with the November 4, 2008 General Election in Butte County.

4.	If approved by the voters, the special tax will be used solely for the purpose of providing fire
suppression, prevention, rescue and emergency medical services within the District.

5.	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10002, the district shall reimburse the county in full for the services
performed upon presentation of a bill to the district;

6.	At the election, there shall be submitted to the qualified voters residing within the boundaries of the
District the following proposition:

To provide local fire protection and rapid emergency response services
for the El Medio community, so victims of heart attacks, strokes, car
accidents and other medical emergencies can receive rapid response care,
to protect our homes and businesses from fire, to receive matching state
funds, and to keep insurance rates manageable, shall an annual special
property tax be authorized with all revenue staying in our community for
local fire protection and emergency medical response services?

7.	The said special tax shall, upon approval of two thirds of the eligible voters, be levied annually on all
taxable real property, classes of improvements to property and uses of property specified below:

Single-family residential -- $58 per parcel
Mobile homes on a separate parcel -- $58 per parcel

•	Other Residential -- $58 per dwelling unit

•	Commercial / Industrial — $200 per parcel

•	Agricultural / Vacant — $50 per acre

•	Institutional / Miscellaneous — $75 per parcel

8.	If approved by the voters, the special tax shall continue until repealed by the Board of Directors or by
the voters.

9.	To the extent that the revenue from the special property taxes enacted by this Resolution are in excess
of the spending limit for the District as calculated in accordance with the provisions of Article XIII B of
the California Constitution and applicable statutory provisions, the approval of this special property tax
by the voters shall constitute approval to increase the District's spending limit in an amount equal to the
revenue derived from the special property tax for the maximum period of time as allowed by law.

10.	In order to help ensure that the revenues from the special tax grow in line with the inflation adjusted
cost of providing local emergency response and fire protection services, the tax rate may increase in
future years by an annual amount not to exceed 3% per year.

11.	Unless otherwise ordered pursuant to a Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the special
property taxes shall annually be collected on the County of Butte property tax bill in the same manner and
subject to the same penalty as the county property taxes are collected. The District shall annually take
such steps as are necessary to have the special property taxes collected through the property tax bill and
shall coordinate with the County Auditor and Tax Collector in this regard. The County shall be entitled to
deduct its reasonable costs incurred in collecting the special taxes before the balance of the taxes are
remitted to the District.

12.	After notice and hearing, the classification of each parcel improvement and use of property shall be
determined as of July 15th of each year for the succeeding fiscal year. Any landowner may appeal the
determination made with respect to the landowner's property class of improvement, or use of property by
filing a written notice at the District office. Such notice shall identify the owner, the property and the
specific grounds upon which the determination is being appealed. The District shall hold a hearing on said
appeal and the landowner shall be given adequate notice and opportunity to be heard. The District's
decision on any such appeal shall apply, as appropriate, to the current and future years, but shall not be
applied retroactively to prior fiscal years.

Passed and adopted at a general meeting of the Board of Directors of the El Medio Fire Protection
District held on July 9, 2008, at 6:30 p.m. by the following vote:

ayes:	5	a"B, LSM>!5.	Kystuc* r}	d

NOES:	——'	)	'

ABSENT:

ABSTAINING:

VACANT:	v^x-	„

DIRECTORS:

FULL TEXT

MEASURE A

EL MEDIO EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES MEASURE

The El Medio Fire Protection District will levy a special tax on each taxable parcel of land within the
District at the following annual rates:

•	Single-family residential -- $58 per parcel

•	Mobile homes on a separate parcel - $58 per parcel

•	Other Residential -- $58 per dwelling unit

•	Commercial / Industrial -- $200 per parcel

•	Agricultural / Vacant -- $50 per acre

•	Institutional / Miscellaneous -- $75 per parcel

In order to help ensure that the revenues from the special tax grow in line with the inflation adjusted
cost of providing local fire protection and emergency medical emergency services, the tax rate may
increase in future years by an annual amount not to exceed 3% per year

Taxable parcels are those parcels that appear on the annual secured Butte County property tax roll.
Assessor's Use Codes are those codes used by the Butte County Assessor's Office to identify and
categorize property.

The purpose of this parcel tax will be to ensure continued local fire suppression, protection and
emergency response services for all residents of the District and visitors to the area. The revenues
raised by this special tax will only be used to defray operating expenses, capital improvement
expenditures and debt repayment to accomplish the foregoing purposes.

The District's appropriations limit will be increased by the amount of this voter-approved tax.

The special tax revenues shall be deposited into a separate account held by the Butte County Treasurer,
in accordance with Government Code Section 50075.1, and shall be expended according to a plan
developed annually by the District staff and approved and adopted by the District's Board of Directors.
A citizens' oversight committee appointed by the Board will review and report on the expenditure of tax
revenues.

The District will cause to be filed an annual report with its Board of Directors, which report shall include
the amount of special tax revenues collected and expended, and which shall otherwise comply with the
accountability measures established in Government Code Sections 50075.1 et seq.

Ballot Question

MEASURE A

EL MEDIO EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES MEASURE

To provide local fire protection and rapid emergency response services for the El Medio
community, so victims of heart attacks, strokes, car accidents and other medical emergencies
can receive rapid response care, to protect our homes and businesses from fire, to receive
matching state funds, and to keep insurance rates manageable, shall an annual special property
tax be authorized with all revenue staying in our community for local fire protection and
emergency medical response services?	(75 words out of 75 word maximum)

EL MEDIO FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION #R-08-003
CALLING A GENERAL DISTRICT ELECTION AND REQUEST FOR CONSOi

L

JUL 1 0 2008

rt

liif



(CLERK

DEPUTY

WHEREAS, this District has elected to hold its election on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in
November, 2008, the District desires to consolidate with the Statewide General Election to be held November 4,
2008.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the District requests the Butte County Board of Supervisors
to consolidate such General District Election with the Statewide General Election to be held on November 4,2008,
for the purpose of placing a measure on the ballot.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors of EL MEDIO FIRE
PROTECTION DISTRICT held on July 9, 2008 by the following vote:

AYES:	5	DIRECTORS:

NOES:	0	C. Davis, B. Lewis, G. Nystuen, J. Farmer, J. Cooper

ABSENT:	0

ABSTAIN:	0

A

a



dOTDir

>rs or

Chairman

an

ectors

EL MEDIO FIRE PROTECTION