073008

RESOLUTION NO. 2008-43

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF KINGSBURG
ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF
KINGSBURG A MEASURE RELATED TO THE CITY'S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
TAX AT THE GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 4, 2008

WHEREAS, in the past fifteen (15) years the population of Kingsburg has grown by
fifty-six percent (56%), placing a strain on essential City services; and

WHEREAS, the number of reported crimes in Kingsburg has doubled and the number
of calls for police assistance have increased by three hundred percent (300%), creating
expanded public safety needs including fighting youth crime, and the spread of drug use and
gangs from outside the community into Kingsburg neighborhoods; and

WHEREAS, the State has seized over Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00) from
Kings burg's revenues over the past ten (10) years to balance the State's budget, reinforcing the
fact that Kingsburg cannot rely on Sacramento to fund its needs and underlining the need for
funds that are legally required to stay in Kingsburg; and

WHEREAS, a local funding solution which generates revenue that Sacramento camiot
take away, will help to protect funding for ongoing City services; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Chapter 3.16 of Title 3 of the Kingsburg Municipal Code, the
City currently levies a Transient Occupancy Tax (commonly known as a "hotel tax") which
generates locally-controlled revenue by taxing visitors to Kingsburg who occupy a hotel or
motel room in Kingsburg for thirty (30) days or less; it is not a tax assessed against Kingsburg
homeowners and property owners; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to amend Section 3.16.030 of Chapter 3.16 of
Title 3 of the Kingsburg Municipal Code to impose a Transient Occupancy Hotel Tax, of
twelve percent (12%), which is four percent (4%) more than the current Transient Occupancy Tax
of eight percent (8%); and

WHEREAS, the increase in the Transient Occupancy Hotel Tax will result in only a
small increase to the cost of visitor's stay in a local hotel or motel per night but will provide
Kingsburg with additional needed funding for City services including, without limitation,
maintaining and improving public safety services such as police and fire protection, street and
pothole repair, parks, youth and after school programs, anti-gang and anti-drug programs, and
senior programs which gives Kingsburg its small town quality of life; and

WHEREAS, a proposed ordinance attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference
as Exhibit "A" ("Ordinance) would implement these proposed revisions to the Transient
Occupancy Tax; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Government Code Section 53724 and Election
Code Section 9222, the City Council desires to submit the Ordinance to the voters of the City.

NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF KINGSBURG
DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION I. Findings. The City Council finds and determines that each of the findings
set forth above arc true and correct.

SECTION 2. General Tax Election. The City Council proposes to impose the
general tax set forth in the Ordinance and to present this proposal to the voters on November 4,
2008.

SECTION 3. Measure. Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9222, the City
Council hereby submits the Ordinance to the voters at the Election and orders the following
question to be submitted to the voters at the Election:

THE KINGSBURG CITY SERVICES IMPROVEMENT MEASURE. To maintain and	YES	NO
improve public safety services such as police and fire protection, street and pothole repair, parks, youth, after-school, anti-gang and anti-drug programs; senior and other city services, shall the City of Kingsburg impose a Transient Occupancy Tax, also known as a hotel bed tax paid only by hotel guests, of 12 %. 4 % more than the current Transient Occupancy Tax of 8%, and continuing to be subject to publicly available annual audits.		

This measure requires the approval of a majority of those casting votes.

SECTION 4. Notice of Election. The City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed
to give notice of the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 5. Impartial Analysis. Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9280,
the City Council hereby directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of the measure to the City
Attorney. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure, not to exceed
500 words in length, showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and the operation of
the measure, and transmit such impartial analysis to the City Clerk on or before August 8,
2008.

SECTION 6. Request for County Services. Pursuant to Section 10002 of the California
Elections Code, the City Council of the City of Kingsburg hereby requests the Board of
Supervisors of Fresno County to permit the Registrar of Voters to render services to the City of
Kingsburg relating to the conduct of Kingsburg's General Municipal Election which are called
to be held on Tuesday, November 4, 2008. The City will reimburse the Fresno County
Elections Department for these services. The services shall be of the type normally performed
by the Registrar of Voters in assisting the clerks of municipalities in the conduct of elections
including, but not limited to, checking registrations, mailing ballots, hiring election officers and
arranging for polling places, receiving absentee voter ballot applications, mailing and receiving
absent voter ballots and opening and counting same, providing and distributing election
supplies, and furnishing voting machines.

SECTION 7. Transmittal of Resolution. The City Clerk is hereby directed to submit
forthwith a certified copy of this resolution to the Board of Supervisors, the Registrar of Voters,
and to the County Clerk of the County of Fresno.

2

I.

SECTION 8. Exemption from CEOA. The City Council finds that this resolution is exempt
from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).

Passed and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of
Kingsburg, duly called and held on the 6th day of August, 2008, by the following vote:

AYES:	Council	Member(s):	Blayney, Kruper, Karstetter, Smith and Mayor Bergstrom

NOES:	Council Member(s):	None

ABSTAIN:	Council Member(s):	None

ABSENT:	Council Member(s):	None

STATE OF CALIFORNIA)

COUNTY OF FRESNO )ss
CITY OF KINGSBURG )

I, SUSAN BAUCH, City Clerk of the City of Kingsburg, do hereby certify the
foregoing resolution was duly adopted at a regular meeting of said City Council held on the
6th day of August, 2008.

Dated:	August	7.	2008

FAWORDliU11141_941City Council Resolution final 073008.rtf

I

3