CITY OF SOLVANG
CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR
MEASURE B2008

If approved by the voters, Measure B would amend the Solvang
Municipal Code to increase the tax paid by temporary occupants
of rooms one percentage point. This measure would set the
transient occupancy tax rate at eleven percent (11%). At this
rate, for example, a stay in a hotel $1Q0 in value would generate
a tax of eleven dollars. The tax is not imposed upon the hotel or
motet owner but is imposed upon the temporary, or "transient"
occupant. The owner of the hotel or motel does have a duty to
both collect the tax from the occupant and to remit the tax to the
City of Solvang.

This measure requires all proceeds of the tax to be deposited
into the City’s General Fund to be used for such general
municipal governmental purposes, as the City Council shall
direct. Among such purposes are tourism related services,
public bathroom construction and maintenance, street and
sidewalk construction, maintenance and repair, pothole repair,
storm drain construction, maintenance and repair, and police
services. It is estimated that this increase will generate two
hundred thousand ($200,000.00) or more on an annual basis
from the visitors that will pay the tax.

The transient occupancy tax increase proposed by this measure
will only become effective if approved by a majority of those
electors voting on the measure.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure

/s/ Roy A. Hanley, City Attorney, City of Solvang

AN ORDINANCE BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF
SOLVANG AMENDING SECTION 3-2-2 OF CHAPTER 2
TITLE 6 OF THE SOLVANG MUNICIPAL CODE
PERTAINING TO THE CITY OF SOLVANG TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX

SECTION 1. ENACTMENT

Amending Section 3-2-2 (Tax Imposed) of Chapter 2 of Title 3 of
the Solvang Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as
follows:

3-2-2: TAX IMPOSED:

(a) For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is
subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of eleven percent
(11%) of the rent charged by the operator. Such tax constitutes
a debt owed by the transient to the city, which is extinguished
only by payment to the operator or to the city. The transient shall
pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is
paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of
the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall
be due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the
hotel. If for any reason the tax is not paid to the operator of the
hotel, the finance director may require that such tax shall be
paid directly to the finance department.

SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Section or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of the Section which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and
to this end the provisions of this Section are severable.

SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE

This Ordinance shall be in force and take effect ten (10) days
after the official canvas of the November 4, 2000 Election.

ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the City Council held this
23rd day of June 2008 on motion of the Council Member Boyle,
seconded by Council Member Palmer, and on the following roll
call vote to wit:

AYES:	Mayor	Jackson,	Council Members Boyle, Palmer

and Richardson

NOES:

ABSENT: Council Member Skytt
ABSTAIN:

ATTEST:

Mary Ellen Rio, City Clerk	Linda	C.	Jackson,	Mayor

N SR 047-038

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B2008
CITY OF SOLVANG

Tourism Is Solvang's major industry and provides more than half
of the city revenues for administration, services and
maintenance, included In the tourism dollar is the Transient
Occupancy Tax (TOT) levied on overnight guests. The tax is
collected from guests by all Inns, Hotels, Motels, and Bed and
Breakfast owners and/or operators and paid to the City of
Solvang. The City currently receives a. 10% tax on the cost of a
guest room, which translates to about 2.4 million dollars in
annual revenue to the general fund. Measure B will increase
Solvang's TOT to 11% of the cost of a guest room resulting in a
projected increase of about $240,000 to be deposited into the
general fund.

The purpose of increasing the TOT from 10% to 11% Is to fund
city general fund expenditures.

Vote YES for Measure B

- No Cost to Local Residents (Unless guest of hotel)

Supported by Solvang's Hospitality Industry
Supported by the Solvang Chamber of Commerce
Increases City Revenue

Vote Yes on Measure B

The undersigned authors of the primary argument in favor of
Ballot Measure B2008 at the General Municipal Election for
the City of Solvang to be held on November 4, 2008, hereby
state that such argument is true and correct to the best of their
knowledge and belief.

/s/ Linda C, Jackson, Mayor

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE B2008
CITY OF SOLVANG

Tax increases must be justifiable, not just to raise more tax
dollars. The City Council states that due to the fact that Sofvang
Residents will not pay the proposed TOT tax increase that It is
O.K. to place this burden on Solvang Tourists who sleep over In
our Hotels, Motels, Bed and Breakfast and Resorts, for which
they currently pay approximately 2.4 million dollars a year. The
TOT tax increase may have been justifiable as a Special Tax
specifically to support Tourism for which the Tourist would be
assured some benefit. The Council initiated the TOT tax
Increase as a Special Tax earmarked for tourism but changed
horses in mid-stream as were concerned about obtaining a 2/3
majority vote. However, they wanted the additional revenue and
set their sights on a TOT General Tax instead, which only
required a 50% majority vote. Please, tell the City Council they
made a mistake in going for a General TOT Tax by VOTING NO
on Measure B2008 and to put more faith in the Voter. Thank
you.

The undersigned author of the Rebuttal to Argument in Favor Of
Measure B2008 at the General Municipal Election for the City of
Solvang to be held on November 4, 2000, hereby states that
such rebuttal argument Is true and correct to the best of his
knowledge and belief.

fsf Leo Mathiasen, Retired Solvang City Administrator

Isl Jim Richardson, Council Member

N SR 047-039

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE B2008
CITY OF SOLVANG

There should be a compelling need and reason to propose tax
increases and trust the Voter to agree. The City Council in
placing a TOT (bed tax) on the ballot has opted to only trust
50% of the Voters to pass the measure and place It's proposed
revenue in the City's General Fund rather than seek 67%
favorable vote to designate the funds for Tourism, the City's
prime industry and was the initial driving force behind the tax
measure. The tax increase, if passed, is projected to raise
$240,000 a year for the General Fund for which need has not
been demonstrated. Given the fragile state of the economy,
2008 is not a year to raise any taxes and further burden the
Tourist and Tourist industry. 1% may not seem like much but
with all other cumulative cost increases may just keep some of
Solvang's Hotel/Motel rooms empty causing a domino effect on
retail, bakery, food establishments, etc, also, the funds to
support the major cost of City services such as Police, Fire,
Recreation, etc. Regardless of the intent of this current Council,
which has supported tourism, there is nothing to bind future
Council’s without some official citizen directive as to finance of
Tourism, Solvang’s financial "life blood". Please, vote NO on
Measure B, don't let the city Council extract another $240,000
from our tourists just to enhance it’s General Fund,

The undersigned author of the primary argument against Ballot
Measure B2008 at the General Municipal Election for the City of
Solvang to be held on November 4, 2008, hereby states that
such argument is true and correct to the best of his knowledge
and belief.

/s/ Leo Mathiasen, Retired Solvang City Administrator

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE B2008
CITY OF SOLVANG

It is pure speculation with no proof offered that an increase in
the TOT would reduce motel occupancy. Recorded evidence
suggests that in 1995 when TOT was tncreased‘2% there was
no impact upon our occupancy of hotel rooms. Two compelling
reasons to charge guests a little more for their hotel rooms are
(1) to sustain Solvang’s good quality of life, and (2) to tell others
about our good quality of life. When we tell our story we add to
property values and support local business.

The undersigned authors of the rebuttal to the argument against
Ballot Measure B 2008 at the General Municipal Election for the
City of Solvang to be held on November 4, 2008, hereby states
that such an argument is true and correct to the best of our
knowledge and belief.

Isl Linda C. Jackson, Mayor

Isl Jim Richardson, Council Member

