SCHOOL

SANTA M0N1CA-MALIBU UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

N0-*O

RTo preserve quality schools despite inadequate state funding, and prevent 1132 yes^O
program cuts, shall the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District renew -
without increasing — existing school parcel taxes, annually adjusted for
inflation, with exemptions for homes owned and occupied by senior citizens, and
annual audits reported to taxpayers by Independent Citizens Oversight Committee? Funds used to retain
highly qualified teachers and reduced class size, protect excellence in math, science, technology, arts,
music, reading; sustain libraries. No funds used for administrator salaries.

133

END OF BALLOT

The Santa Monica-Malibu Schools
Quality Education Funding Renewal Measure

1.	TITLE AND PURPOSE

The revenues raised by the “Santa Monica-Malibu Quality Education Funding
Renewal Measure” (the “Funding Measure”) shall be used to prevent serious
deterioration in the quality of public education in Santa Monica and Malibu in
the face of inadequate state funding for public schools and to promote continued
student achievement in the core curriculum.

2.	SPECIFIC PURPOSES

The revenues raised by this Funding Measure shall be used by the Santa Monica-
Malibu Unified School District (the “District”) exclusively for the following
purposes:

A.	To preserve programs and replace funds lost or reduced due to inadequate
state funding (including state budget reductions that are the result of reduced
federal funding of state programs);

B.	To sustain achievement in reading, writing, and mathematics for all
students at all grade levels and to fulfill the District’s core curriculum which
includes music, arts, and athletics;

C.	To attract and retain highly qualified teachers; and

D.	To protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District
accountability by providing for special citizen financial oversight and
independent annual audits of revenues and expenditures.

3.	SEPARATE ACCOUNT

The revenues raised by this Funding Measure shall be deposited in a separate
account in accordance with Government Code section 50075.1 (or applicable
successor law) and shall be expended solely for the specific purposes identified
above.

4.	THE TAX LEVY

A.	Tax Base. The two existing qualified special taxes presently levied by the
District annually against each parcel of land within the boundaries of the District
shall be combined into a single annual levy and renewed in an amount not to
exceed $346 per parcel, adjusted annually for inflation in accordance with the
Consumer Price Index (CPI-U) for All Urban Consumers (Los Angeles-
Riverside-Orange area) base year 1982-84=100, not otherwise exempted by law.
The annual CPI-U adjustment shall be the twelve (12) month change in the index
over the most recently available twelve (12) month period preceding the date on
which the adjustment needs to be calculated for assessment purposes. Any
change in the levy (other than those described herein) shall be placed before the
voters.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900064-1

D LA 065-010

FUU. TEXTOF BALi.OT MEASURE R (Continued)

B.	Senior Exemption. An exemption to the qualified special tax is available
for a person sixty-five (65) years or older who owns and occupies a parcel as a
principal residence and applies for an exemption in accordance with guidelines
established by the Board of Education of the District (the “Board”).

C.	Effective Date. The effective date of this renewal shall be July 1, 2008.

D.	Public Review Requirement. The Board of Education annually shall
conduct a noticed public hearing to assess the continuing need for the tax
revenues resulting from the Funding Measure. This evaluation will include, but
not necessarily be limited to, consideration of the costs of programs to which
these revenues have been dedicated, the general condition of the School
District’s finances, the District’s enrollment, the structure of public financing of
public education in California, and the regulations by which the School District
qualifies for State funding.

E.	Constitutional Apportionment Limit. Pursuant to Section 4 of Article
XIIIB of the California Constitution, the apportionment limit of the District is
hereby increased commencing with the date of approval of this Funding Measure
by the levy of this qualified special tax, and the Board shall increase the District’s
appropriations limit as necessary in each year during which proceeds of this
qualified special tax are available, to ensure that the proceeds of this qualified
special tax may be spent for the authorized purposes, pursuant to Section 7902.1
of the Government Code (or applicable successor law).

F.	Collection. The District may request that the qualified special tax be
collected by the County of Los Angeles, or other lawfully designated agency. The
collection of taxes under this Funding Measure, including the imposition of
penalties, additional fees, and interest upon persons who fail to remit the
qualified special tax imposed by this Funding Measure, or who fail to remit any
delinquent remittance, shall be subject to and governed by the rules, regulations,
and procedures authorized by law. Every penalty imposed and such interest as
accrues under the provisions of this Funding Measure shall become a part of the
tax herein required to be paid.

G.	Savings Clause. The provisions of this Funding Measure shall not apply
to any person, association, or corporation or to any property as to whom or
which it is beyond the power of the District to impose a qualified special tax. If
any part of this Funding Measure, as written or as applied to any person, is
finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional,
illegal, or invalid, such determination shall affect only such part of this Funding
Measure and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions,
sentences, clauses, sections, or other parts of this Funding Measure. It is hereby
declared to be the intention of the Board and of the electorate that this Funding
Measure would have been adopted had such part thereof not been included.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900064-2

D LA 065-011

= FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURER{CGntiAued)

5.	ACCOUNTABILITY, PLANNING, PUBLIC INFORMATION, AND
COMPLIANCE REVIEW PROVISIONS

A.	Citizen Oversight. The Board shall appoint a special citizen financial
oversight committee that is charged to review the District’s administration of and
compliance with the terms of this Funding Measure. The committee so charged
by the Board is referred to in this Funding Measure as the “Independent Citizens
Oversight Committee.”

B.	Annual Plan. An expenditure plan (the “Proposed Annual Plan”) shall be
developed annually for the succeeding fiscal year by the District staff in
consultation with the Independent Citizens Oversight Committee. The Proposed
Annual Plan will recommend expenditures of the tax proceeds that are consistent
with the intent of the Funding Measure. The assumptions associated with the
recommended expenditures shall be included in the Proposed Annual Plan. The
Proposed Annual Plan shall be presented for Board action each fiscal year in
conjunction with the District’s annual budget adoption process for the
subsequent fiscal year. To facilitate public discussion, the Proposed Annual Plan
shall be made available for public review ninety (90) calendar days prior to
Board adoption of its annual budget. The Proposed Annual Plan together with
regular financial and audit reports shall be promptly distributed to the
Independent Citizens Oversight Committee.

C.	Public Comment Process. No fewer than 60 calendar days before the Board
acts on the annual budget for the subsequent fiscal year, the Board shall hold a
noticed public hearing on the Proposed Annual Plan in order to allow for public
input on whether the priority programs to be supported by Funding Measure
revenues should be modified. No fewer than 30 calendar days before the Board
acts on the annual budget for the subsequent fiscal year, the Proposed Annual
Plan and the findings from the public hearing shall be reviewed by the
Independent Citizens Oversight Committee which shall forward its
recommendation to the Board. In adopting the District budget each year, the
Board will approve an Adopted Annual Plan for Funding Measure revenues,
taking into account comments from the public hearing and the recommendation
of the Independent Citizens Oversight Committee. Members of the public may
comment on the plans, reports, and conditions of the Funding Measure during
the public comment period of any meeting of the Independent Citizens
Oversight Committee or any meeting of the Board.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900064-3

D LA 065-012

FULLTEXT OFBALLOTMEASURER(Continued)

D.	Financia! Reports. The District shall make available to the public and to
the Independent Citizens Oversight Committee updated budget and financial
expenditure reports concerning the special account holding the proceeds of this
qualified special tax in conjunction with the regular interim budget reporting
required by the State. As part of this reporting, at least once per fiscal year, the
chief fiscal officer of the District shall file a report with the Board and the
Independent Citizens Oversight Committee identifying the amount of the funds
collected and expended pursuant to this Funding Measure, together with the
status of any project required or authorized to be funded hereunder. All of the
foregoing reports shall be organized to display clearly how the expenditures
relate to the Adopted Annual Plan approved by the Board.

E.	Independent Auditors’ Annual Report. Each year, an independent auditor
retained by the District shall review District records to determine that funds
generated by this Funding Measure have been maintained and expended in
compliance with the Adopted Annual Plan and that other conditions of this
Funding Measure have been satisfied. Said audit shall be conducted in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Standards and
Procedures for Audits of K-12 Local Educational Agencies, and this Funding
Measure. The independent auditor shall transmit a “Finding of Violation” to the
Board if: (1) the funds raised by this Funding Measure have been spent for
purposes other than those specified in section 2; or (2) other conditions of this
Funding Measure have not been satisfied.

F.	Civil Remedies Available At Law. The provisions of this section are in
addition to civil remedies available at law for assuring compliance with the terms
of this Funding Measure.

6.	Because the Funding Measure combines and renews two existing parcel tax
measures (Measures S and Y) into a single parcel tax, Measures S and Y are
hereby repealed as follows:

Measure “S”

QUALITY PUBLIC EDUCATION PRESERVATION ACT OF 2003

qualified special tax of $225 per parcel each year for 6 years exempting property
owned and occupied by persons age 65 and older? Mandatory resident taxpayer

to preserve the core curriculum in all grades and prevent deterioration in quality

(Continued on next page)

PR-900064-4

D LA 065-013

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE R (Continued)

C. To protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District

years or older who owns-and occupies a parcel as a principal residence and

(Continued on next page)

PR-9Q0064-5

D LA 065-014

for six (6) years, beginning in the tax year commencing on July 1, 2003.

€:— Constitutional—Appropriations—Limit;—The—Board—may—increase—the

XHIB of the California Goflsfittrtioft and Section 7992:4 of the Government

collection of taxes under this Measure, including the......imposition of penalties,

tax imposed by this Measure;- or-who fail to remit any delinquent remittance,
shall be subject to and governed by the rules, regulations, and--procedures
authorized by law. Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the

patdr

person, association, or corporation or to any property as to whom or which it is
beyond the power of the District-to impose a qualified special tax. If any part of
this Mcasttrc, as written or as applied to any person, is finally determined by a
eourt of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, such
determination shall affect only such part of this Measure and shall not- affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or other

(Continued on next page)

PR-900064-6

D LA 065-015

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE R (Continued)

B...Annual.Waft;.'An-.

devek

annually for the succeeding fiscal year-by theDistrict staff in consultation with

recommended Annual Plan shall be made available for publie review two weeks

of any meeting of the Taxpayer Oversight Committee or any meeting of the

P -a f| y/A
JDiJcllU.

expenditure reports concerning the special account holding the proceeds of this

qualified special tax in conjunction with the regular interim budget reporting
required-by-thc State; As part of this reporting, at least once per fiscal year, the
chief fiscal officer of the District shall file a report with the Board and the
Resident Taxpayer Oversight Committee identifying the amount of the funds

project required or authorized to- be funded hereunder. All of the foregoing
reports shall be organized to display clearly how the expenditures relate to the

retained by the District shall review District records to determine that funds
generated-by this Measure have been maintained and expended in compliance
with the Annual Plan and that other conditions of this Measure have been
satisfied. Said audit shall be conducted in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, the Standards and Procedures for Audits of-K-12 Local
Educational Agencies, and this Mcasure-The independent auditor shall transmit
a “Finding of Violation” to the Board if: (1) the funds raised by this Measure
have been spent for purposes other than those specified in section 2; or (2) other
conditions of this Measure have not bccn-satisficd.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900064-7

D LA 065-016

addition to civil remedies available at law for assuring compliance with the terms

Measure “Y”

To continue special programs to attract outstanding teaehers and improve
instruction and counseling, to enhance athletics, musie, and arts programs, and to
purchase science materials and computer technology for schools, shall the Santa
Monica-Malibu Unified School District be authorized-to-continue a special tax
limited to $98 per parcel, adjusted annually in accordance with the Consumer
Priee Index-Urban (CPI-U) for no longer than ten years, which will help proteet
the taxpayers’ investment in education and a safe learning environment.

The full text of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

“Shall the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District, serving the €hy~of
Santa Monica, the City of Malibu, and the county territory of Malibu continue a
special tax for under-funded programs to:

-	attract outstanding teachers;

-	improve -instruction and counseling;

environment;

years;

PR-900064-8

D LA 065-017

(Continued on next page)

-PULLTEXT X>CBALLOI.-MEASIIHE^R (Continued^

all elections to be held on the date as specified above;

it—This Board requests that the Los Angeles County Registrar/Rccordcr carry
out all necessary duties in connection with the consolidated election, including
printing and mailing sample ballots; -arguments and applications for absentee
ballots; providing adequate polling places; canvassing returns and certifying the
fesults to this Board; and all other election duties prescribed by law;

12:—The Secretary of the Board of Education is ordered and directed to cause
notice of the holding of said election to be given by publishing a copy of the
resolution in the LOS ANGELES TIMES (OUR TIMES), SURPSIDE NEWS,

less than fifteen (15) days before the time so fixed for said election;

12:—The Secretafy-of the Board of Education is further ordered and directed to

eause further notiee-of the holding of said election to be given by posting a copy
of this Resolution of or near the doors of the District’s office in three (3) public
places within the District for at least two-(2) weeks before the time fixed for the

Passed and adopted by the Board of Education of the Santa Monica - Malibu
Unified School District, Los Angeles County, State of California.

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the Resolution
duly and regularly adopted by the Board of Education of the Santa
Monica - Malibu Unified School District at a meeting thereof held on the
25lh day of October 2007.

DIANNE TALARICO

Superintendent and Secretary
to the Board of Education

PR-900064.9

D LA 065-018

By Raymond G. Fortner Jr., County Counsel

Approval of Measure R would authorize the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified
School District (“District”) to levy a special tax of up to $346 per year on each
parcel of land located within the District. Prior to levying the special tax each
fiscal year, the Board of Education of the District (“Board”) shall conduct a
public hearing on the matter. Following said hearing each year, the Board shall
adopt a resolution establishing the rate per parcel for that year. The tax would
combine two existing qualified special tax measures presently levied by the
District and would commence on July 1, 2008. Because this measure combines
and renews two existing parcel tax measures, Measure S and Y are repealed. The
tax shall be adjusted annually for inflation in accordance with the specified
Consumer Price Index. An exemption to the tax is available for a person age 65
and older who owns and occupies a parcel as a principal residence and applies
for an exemption in accordance with guidelines established by the Board.

The tax revenues shall be used to preserve programs and replace funds lost or
reduced due to inadequate State funding, sustain achievement in reading,
writing, and mathematics for students at all grade levels, fulfill the District’s core
curriculum which includes music, arts, and athletics, attract and retain highly
qualified teachers, protect the taxpayers’ investment in education, and ensure
District accountability by providing for special citizen financial oversight and
independent annual audits of revenue and expenditures.

The Board shall appoint a special citizen financial oversight committee
(“committee”) that is charged to review the District’s administration of and
compliance with terms of this Measure. An expenditure plan shall be developed
annually for the succeeding fiscal year by District staff in consultation with the
committee. The annual plan will recommend expenditures of the tax proceeds
that are consistent with the intent of this Measure, include expenditure
assumptions, and be presented for Board action each fiscal year in conjunction
with the District’s annual budget adoption process. The recommended annual
plan shall be made available for public review ninety (90) calendar days prior to
Board adoption of the annual budget.

The District shall make available to the public and to the Committee updated
budget and financial expenditure reports concerning the account holding the
proceeds of the tax. As part of this reporting, the chief fiscal officer of the
District shall file a report with the Board and the committee identifying the
amount of the funds collected and expended, together with the status of any
project required or authorized to be funded. Each year an independent auditor
shall review the District records to determine that funds generated by this
Measure have been maintained and expended in compliance with the annual
plan.

The special tax levied shall be collected by the Los Angeles County Tax
Collector, and shall be subject to the same interest, penalty, and penalty rate as
for general ad valorem taxes.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-900064-10

D LA 065-019

ARGUMENT !N FAVOR OF MEASURE R

Our kids, our teachers, and our schools need you to vote Yes on Measure R.

Measure R preserves high quality education in our local schools - with no new
taxes.

Great schools are part of what make Santa Monica and Malibu great places to
live and help protect property values.

But the State doesn’t provide enough funding for the high-quality schools our
students deserve and our community expects. That’s why Santa Monica and
Malibu voters have approved additional school funding. That local support will
expire if it is not renewed now.

Measure R is not a new tax. It simply renews existing local funding our schools
need.

Without Measure R. neighborhood schools face serious cuts. Local schools
would be forced to layoff more than 70 teachers, increase class sizes, and cut
important education programs.

No other source of funding exists to prevent these cuts if Measure R fails.

Measure R includes strict taxpayer accountability:

Annual audits by Independent Citizens Oversight Committee will ensure
funds are properly spent.

Every penny of Measure R spending will be tracked and reported annually
to taxpayers.

No Measure R funds can be taken by the State.

No funds can be used for administrator salaries.

An exemption is available for senior homeowners.

Measure R will allow our schools to:

Retain excellent teachers.

Support reading and literacy instruction.

Protect smaller class sizes (20 students instead of 30 in Grades K-3).
Continue programs to improve student skills in math.

Preserve science and technology instruction.

Support elementary school libraries.

Keep music and art in our schools.

PR-900064-11

D LA 065-020

(Continued on next page)

A nni imETMT IM CAWAD AC IXCACi IDC D

AhuUIV!L.Pi	I'flUcU/

Renew critical local school funding - with no new taxes! Support our community,
our kids and our schools.

Please join us: VOTE YES ON MEASURE R.

HARRY M. KEILEY

President - Santa Monica Malibu Classroom Teachers Assoc.

REBECCA KENNERLY

President - Santa Monica Malibu PTA Council

AMY BISHOP

President League of Women Voters of Santa Monica

PAUL J. SILVERN

Chair, Financial Oversight Committee

DR. MICHAEL E. GRUNING

Past Chair Santa Monica Chamber of Commerce

PR-900064-12

D LA 068-021

REBUTTAL

REASONS TO VOTE NO ON PROPOSITION R

The District has short changed Malibu residents once again. Malibu voters were
promised a fair share of last year’s bond money. Some warned that the bond
money would be diverted from Malibu schools. Guess what? That turned out to
be true! Should Malibu voters entrust the District with even more money? We
think not.

The Board entered into contracts they could not fund. The District wants to
combine, extend, and tack on additions to the existing parcel taxes to cover this
mess. The District’s Financial Officer quit over this very issue. The Board is
hoping you did not notice. Call this tax what it is... a bail out to cover their
mismanagement.

The proponents contend no other funds exist to replace the expiring taxes. The
City of Santa Monica could easily replace these funds from their half-billion
dollar budget. The families of the large number of students who don’t live in the
district should be asked to contribute towards school expenses. Other districts
make such requests.

What is true about this tax?

A.	Malibu residents will pay and Malibu schools will not get their fair share

B.	This extends expiring taxes that will go up every year

C.	This rewards financial mismanagement

D.	Non-residents are not asked to contribute

E.	A homeowner pays the same as a multi-million dollar commercial project

F.	Landlords will pass the tax onto the tenants and raise rents

All of the above... Final answer!

Vote No on R
www.VoteNoR.com

DOUGLAS R. O’BRIEN

City of Malibu Parks & Recreation Commissioner

ED NILES
Malibu Home Owner

THOMAS FAKEHANY
Investments Manager

PATRICIA O. GREENWOOD
Malibu Parks & Recreation Commissioner

ART CASILLAS
Santa Monica Homeowner

PR-900064-13

D LA 065-022

ARGUMENT AGAINST !

More money doesn’t cure bad management. Are you willing to reward District
incompetence with a continued stream of your money?

We’re tired of secret agreements and back-room deals. Recent criticism by the
Santa Monica City Council is justified. Unfunded secret pay hikes, non-
disclosure before elections, silencing of the District’s Financial Officer who
resigned and gag orders issued to parents are not the way a School District
should operate.

The School Board promised Malibu residents revenue sharing of last year’s
school bond for needed improvements. They broke their promise and diverted
millions of dollars from the Malibu Schools. The Board Plans to spend the
money for a new school where nearly half the students are non-district residents.

Are you aware that more than 20% of SMMUSD students do not live in the
district? This causes overcrowded classes and deprives our kids of a quality
education. Yet we are asked to pay ever-increasing taxes!?

Of all the ways to raise money, the district chose the regressive parcel tax. This
tax hurts the poor. A modest house pays the same as a multi-million dollar
commercial project. Renters of condos will pay the full $350+ per year, a renter,
including senior renters, in an apartment will pay what the landlord passes
through!

The City Councils of Santa Monica and Malibu must prioritize our kids. Santa
Monica’s annual budget has increased from $370 million to almost half a billion
in 5 years. Yet their contribution to local schools has not reflected their
newfound wealth.

All school districts contend with budget realities, but few fail as badly as ours.
We generously pass bonds and taxes, yet problems persist. The blame belongs to
district management not to students and teachers who deserve credit for their
achievements. Rewarding the administration’s mismanagement endangers our
schools’ good reputation.

Vote NO on R

MATHEW MILLEN

Former Chair SAMOHI Bilingual Advisory Committee
DONNA DAILEY ALVAREZ

Former Chair Santa Monica Commission on Older Americans

CLARA BENRAY
Public School Teacher

POLLY BENSON-BROWN

Former Board Member, Concerned Homeowners of Santa Monica
JUNE J. COLEMAN

Former Santa Monica Recreation and Parks Commissioner

PR-900064-14

D LA 065-023

TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R

Measure R opponents—the same handful of people who oppose all local
education measures—-have never understood the importance of high quality
schools to our community.

We have good local schools with high-achieving students. The Santa Monica-
Malibu School District maximizes the dollars going directly into classrooms and
is among the most efficient and fiscally accountable in California. No California
district has a higher credit rating.

However, state funding alone isn’t enough to sustain this performance. That’s
why we ALL agree that our schools deserve our continued support through the
irreplaceable local funding provided by Measure R.

Simply put, the State has under-funded our local public schools for decades.
Santa Monica and Malibu voters understand that, and have demonstrated
consistent support for our schools.

Without this support, the quality of our schools will significantly deteriorate.

Measure R simply renews the existing support that will soon expire - with no new
taxes. And Measure R exempts senior homeowners, many of whom have low or
fixed incomes.

We need to protect local school funding. Without Measure R, our schools face
damaging cuts: teacher layoffs; cuts in reading, math and science instruction;
larger class sizes; and elimination of music and art programs.

We’re fortunate to live in a community where people care about schools and
believe our children are our future. No matter where we see ourselves on the
political spectrum—whether we rent or own, whether we live in Malibu or Santa
Monica, whether we’re retired, single, or part of a young family—we ALL agree:

VOTE YES ON MEASURE R.

BARRY SEID

AARP Tax Counseling for the Elderly - District Coordinator
DENNIS ZANE

Founder & Co-Chair, Santa Monicans for Renters’ Rights (SMRR)
TOM LARMORE

Founder, Concerned Homeowners of Santa Monica

CYNTHIA TORRES

Vice Chair, Financial Oversight Committee

JEFF JENNINGS
Mayor of the City of Malibu

D LA 065-024