MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS
MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS A LOS
VOTANTES

CITY
/CIUDAD

CITY OF VICTORVILLE

CIUDAD DE VICTORVILLE

C INCREASE IN TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX RATE Shall
Resolution No. 08-130 of the City of
Victorville be adopted, increasing the Transient
Occupancy Tax (hotel/motel tax) from seven
percent (7%) to ten percent (10%), which is
imposed upon transients, to fund general City
services?

INCREMENTO EN LA TARIFA DE IMPUESTO DE
TENENCIA TEMPORAL &Deberia ser adoptada la
Resolution Num. 08-130 de la Ciudad de Victorville,
incrementando el Impuesto de Tenentia Temporal
(impuesto de hotel/motel) del siete por tiento (7%) al
diez por tiento (10%), que se impone a las personas
transitorias, para financiar los servicios generates de la
Ciudad?

YES/SI^ M
NO/NO<- -4

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS
MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS A LOS
VOTANTES

SCHOOL
/ESCOLAR

VICTOR VALLEY
COMMUNITY COLLEGE
DISTRICT

DISTRITO DE UNIVERSIDAD
COMUNITARIA VICTOR VALLEY
- - Victor Valiev College Public
J J Safety/Health Care/Job Training
Measure. To improve education,
prepare students for well-paying jobs/university
transfer/qualify for State matching funds, shall
Victor Valley Community College District
improve classrooms, science labs, educational
buildings, establish a Workforce Training
Center/Public Safety Academy for nursing,
healthcare, emergency medical, police,
firefighting/business careers, upgrade
infrastructure, acquire sites, equipment,
construct/repair buildings, by issuing
$297,500,000 in bonds, with legal rates,
independent citizens’ oversight/no money for
administrators’ salaries?

Medida del Coleaio Universitario de Victor Valiev
mobre Seauridad Publica/Cuidados de
Salud/Formacion Ocuoacional. A fin de mejorar la
education, preparar a los estudiantes para trabaps
bien	remunerados/transferencias	a

universidades/calificar para fondos igualados del
Estado, i deberia el Distrito de Colegio Universitario
Municipal de Victor Valley mejorar las aulas, los
laboratorios de ciencias, los edificios educacionales,
establecer un Centro de Entrenamiento de Fuerza
Laboral/Academia de Seguridad Publica para las
cameras de enfermerfa, atencion a la salud,
emergencia medica, policfa, bomberos/negocios,
actualizar la infraestructura, adquirir emplazamientos,
equipamiento, construir/reparar edificios, al emitir
§297,500,000 en bonos, con tarifas legates, vigilancia
independiente de ciudadanos/ningun dinero para
salarios de administradores?

BONDS YES /BONOS SI M

BONDS NO/ BONOS NO<- M

Ballot Type 260 Page 7

MEASURE C

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City Council of the City of Victorville (“City Council”) has submitted a proposed Resolution to
be placed on the November 4, 2008 ballot. The text of Measure “C” is set forth in the ballot
pamphlet.

Measure “C” proposes adoption of an increase in the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) from
seven percent (7%) to ten percent (10%).

The City currently collects a TOT from guests who spend thirty (30) consecutive days or fewer in
certain hotels/motels in the City. Operators of such hotels/motels collect the TOT from their
guests and forward the collected tax to the City for deposit into the City’s General Fund. A
complete description of the TOT is located in Chapter 3.12 of the City’s Municipal Code, which is
accessible on the City’s website at www.victorville.ca.us.

The City Council spends General Fund monies according to its adopted budget for the support of
the ordinary and necessary operations of the City, including many public services such as police,
fire and paramedic services, planning and public works, youth and senior programs, and parks
and recreation, etc. Among other General Fund Expenditures, the City can use funds derived
from the proposed increase to offset the cost of police, fire, and other services used by the guests
of the hotels/motels.

City staff estimates that voter approval of this measure would increase General Fund revenues by
approximately an additional Four Hundred Thousand Dollars ($400,000) per year.

The current TOT rate is seven percent (7%) of the cost of a room in a hotel/motel. The TOT rate
has remained unchanged since 1984. This ballot measure places a Resolution before the voters
to increase the TOT rate from seven percent (7%) to ten percent (10%). If voters approve this
measure, the TOT would increase to a rate often percent (10%).

A “yes” vote on this measure means that the TOT will increase from seven percent (7%) to ten
percent (10%), commencing January 1, 2009. A “no” vote on this measure means that the TOT
will remain at seven percent (7%). This Measure “C” will become effective only if a majority (at
least fifty percent plus one) of the voters voting in the election approve it.

/s/Andre de Bortnowsky, City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “C.” Copies of Measure “C” are
available at the City of Victorville and at the Victorville Library. If you desire a copy of
Measure “C,” please call the City Clerk’s office (760-955-5000) and a copy will be mailed at
no cost to you.

PR-8003-1

N SB 260-020

MEASURE E

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

A yes vote by fifty-five percent (55%) of the voters within the Victor Elementary School District
voting on this measure will authorize the Board of Trustees of the District to issue and sell bonds
in the principal amount not to exceed $150,000,000 at an interest rate below legal limits. The
District may only use the bond funds for the specific school facilities projects listed in the School
Project List, which has been approved by action of the Board of Trustees and is Exhibit B to its
Resolution ordering this election.

If this measure passes, the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors will be required to
annually levy a tax upon the property in the District sufficient to pay the principal and interest on
any outstanding bonds of the District as the principal and interest becomes due. This tax will be
in addition to the one percent (1%) property tax provided for under current law.

If less than fifty-five percent (55%) of the voters voting on this measure vote yes, the Board of
Trustees of the District will not be authorized to issue and sell the $150,000,000 of bonds set forth
in the measure.

This measure will not have any effect on existing law.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure E. If you desire a copy of the
measure, please call the San Bernardino County Registrar of Voters at (909) 387-2083 or
the Victor Elementary School District at (760) 245-1691 and a copy will be mailed at no cost
to you.

If Measure E is approved, the Board of Trustees of the Victor Elementary School District
will appoint a citizens’ oversight committee and conduct annual independent audits to
assure that bond funds are spent only on the construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
or replacement of school facilities, including the furnishing and equipping of school
facilities, or the acquisition or lease of real property for school facilities, and for no other
purposes.

RUTH E. STRINGER
County Counsel

s/DANIEL B. HAUETER
Principal Assistant County Counsel

Approval of Measure E does not guarantee that the proposed project or projects in the
Victor Elementary School District that are the subject of bonds under Measure E will be
funded beyond the local revenues generated by Measure E. The school district’s proposal
for the project or projects may assume the receipt of matching state funds, which could be
subject to appropriation by the Legislature or approval of a statewide bond measure.

N SB 260-021

MEASURE E

TAX RATE STATEMENT

An election will be held in the Victor Elementary School District (the “District”) on November 4,
2008, to authorize the sale of up to $150,000,000 principal amount of general obligation bonds
(the “Bonds”) of the District to finance the school facilities as described in the proposition. If the
Bonds are approved, the District expects to issue the Bonds in up to five (5) series over a ten (10)
year period. Principal and interest on the Bonds will be payable from the proceeds of tax levies
made upon taxable property in the District. The following information is provided in compliance
with Sections 9400-9404 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

1.	The best estimate of the tax rate which would be required to be levied to repay the Bonds
during the first fiscal year after the sale of the first series of Bonds, based on estimated
assessed valuations available at the time of filing this statement, is 3 cents per $100 ($30.00
per $100,000) of assessed valuation in fiscal year 2009-10.

2.	The best estimate of the tax which would be required to be levied to repay the Bonds during
the first fiscal year after the sale of the last series of Bonds, based on estimated assessed
valuations available at the time of filing this statement, is 3 cents per $100 ($30.00 per
$100,000) of assessed valuation in fiscal year 2018-19.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate which would be required to be levied to repay the
Bonds, based on estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing this statement,
is 3 cents per $100 ($30.00 per $100,000) of assessed valuation and is expected to remain
approximately the same in each year during the term of repayment of the Bonds.

Voters should note that the estimated tax rates are based on the ASSESSED VALUE of taxable
property on the County’s official tax rolls, NOT on the property’s market value. Property owners
should consult their own property tax bills to determine their property’s assessed value and any
applicable tax exemptions.

Attention of all voters is directed to the fact that the foregoing information is based on the
District’s projections and estimates only, which are not binding on the District. The actual tax
rates and the years in which they apply may vary from those presently estimated, due to
variations from these estimates in the timing of periodic Bond sales, the amount of Bonds sold
and the market interest rates then available at the time of each Bond sale, and the actual property
assessed valuations over the term of repayment of the Bonds. The dates of sales and amount of
Bonds sold at any given time will be determined by the District based on its need for school
construction funds and other factors, including the legal limitations on the Bonds approved by a
55% vote. The actual interest rates at which the Bonds are sold will depend on the interest rates
available to the District in the bond market at the time of each Bond sale. Actual future property
assessed valuations will depend upon the amount and value of taxable property within the District
as determined by the County Assessor in the annual property assessment and equalization
process.

Dated: August 7, 2008

s/ Ralph Baker
Superintendent
Victor Elementary School District

N SB 260-022

MEASURE E

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

State budget cuts threaten local education. To continue to improve local schools, retain and
attract excellent teachers, and instill the discipline and focus students need to learn, Vote
Yes on E.

Did you know Victorville is the second fastest growing city in the nation? Numerous Victor
Elementary schools ALREADY have over 1.000 students per school, three times the
recommended elementary school size.

YES ON E relieves overcrowding by building additional elementary schools, giving our kids safe
places to learn.

YES on E keeps our schools safe, gang and drug-free.

By creating smaller schools, YES ON E improves the quality of education by allowing teachers
to closely monitor students, offering more individual attention.

YES ON E protects kids in school by installing more up-to-date security cameras and specialized
door locks. YES ON E protects classrooms during emergency lockdowns, allowing police to
identify and arrest people who commit crimes on school campuses.

YES ON E improves child safety at drop-off zones.

YES ON E upgrades computer technology, bringing our schools into the 21st century.

YES ON E makes neighborhood schools more energy-efficient - leaving more money for
education.

Measure E requires establishment of an Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee, annual
audits to ensure that funds are spent efficiently and stay local as promised, and NO money for
Administrators’ Salaries. Payments are tax-deductible.

Good schools lead to better property values. YES ON E is the best thing we can do for our

local economy, qualifying our schools for millions of state dollars that would otherwise go to other
districts, upgrading older schools to the quality of our newer ones, and creating local construction
jobs.

Join parents, teachers and Victorville community leaders in VOTING LOCAL - remember, find
Victor Elementary’s Measure E on vour ballot and vote YES.

Visit VictorElementaryYesonE.com.

s/Mary Kassel, President
Members Own Credit Union

s/Nancee Fine, President

Victor Elementary Teacher’s Association

s/Doris Davies
Senior Leader

s/Garner Morris
Community Leader

s/Marsha Owens, President

California School Employees Association Chapter 236

PR-8005-3

N SB 260-023

MEASURE E

FULL BALLOT TEXT

“Safetv/C lass room Improvement Measure: To maintain safety/academics, attract excellent
teachers; upgrade schools by repairing classrooms; upgrading technology, electrical systems;
installing security cameras/door locks; improving pick-up/drop-off zone safety; increasing energy
efficiency to reduce costs; equipping/acquiring sites, facilities/joint-use projects; building schools
to relieve overcrowding; shall Victor Elementary School District qualify for State matching funds
and issue $150,000,000 in bonds at legal rates, requiring citizens’ oversight, audits, no money for
administrators’ salaries?”

SCHOOL PROJECT LIST

The Board of Trustees of the Victor Elementary School District evaluated the District’s urgent and
critical facility needs, including teacher recruitment and retention, eligibility for state matching
grants, school safety issues, enrollment trends, class size, school overcrowding, energy efficiency
and computer technology, in developing the scope of projects to be funded, as outlined in the
Victor Elementary School District Facilities 5-Year Master Plan, incorporated herein, and as shall
be further amended from time to time. In developing the scope of projects, the key health and
safety and sustainability needs have been prioritized so that the most critical facility needs are
addressed. In recognizing the types of school projects, the Board of Trustees determines
that:

•	Retaining and attracting excellent teachers is the most critical element of our facility
plans; and

•	Installing the discipline and focus needed for students to learn, beginning at an early
age shall be a theme of our schools;

•	Reducing the size of our 1,000 student elementary schools - three times the
recommended size -- will optimize the safety and learning environment for our
students;

•	Safety at each school is essential and all schools should have specialized door locks
to protect classrooms during emergency school lockdowns and security cameras to
help police and school officials identify and arrest people who commit crimes on
school campuses;

•	Eligibility for State matching grants is vital to the success of our school construction
plans; and

•	Upgrading computer technology and energy efficiency is necessary at every school.

The Facilities 5- Year Master Plan is on file at the District Superintendent’s Office. It includes the
following types of projects at the following school sites:

Academy of Performing Arts and Foreign Language Irwin Elementary School

Brentwood Elementary School
Challenger School of Sports and Fitness
Del Rey Elementary School
Discovery School of the Arts
Endeavor School of Exploration
Galileo Academy School
Green Tree East Elementary School

Liberty Elementary School
Lomitas Elementary School
Mojave Vista Elementary School
Park View Elementary School
Puesta del Sol Elementary School
Sixth Street Prep School
Village Elementary School
West Palms Conservatory School

N SB 260-024

School Health and Safety Projects

Goal and Purpose: To instill student discipline and focus, maximize class time and to help
attract and retain excellent teachers, schools will benefit from a variety of health and
safety projects, such as:

•	Install specialized door locks to protect classrooms during emergency school lockdowns.

•	Upgrade pick-up and drop-off areas to improve student, teacher and parent safety around
schools.

•	Install new security systems, such as security (surveillance) cameras to monitor school
grounds, outdoor lighting, fencing, and gates.

•	Upgrade emergency communication and fire alarm systems.

•	Replace existing doors, doorframes and hardware, where needed to improve student safety.

•	Upgrade school kitchens, where needed, to more efficiently serve students and create more
classroom instruction time.

•	Install new tracks.

•	Replace and add emergency exits, as required by current codes.

•	Replace wood-chip play equipment surfaces with rubberized material to enhance student
safety.

District-Wide Upgrading of Computer Technology Projects

Goal and Purpose: To upgrade computer technology and bring our schools into the 21st
Century:

•	Provide and maintain up-to-date technology, data and communication equipment.

•	Install fiber optics between all schools to access contemporary learning materials.

•	Expand bandwidth to allow students greater access to the Internet.

•	Upgrade and expand telecommunications, Internet and network connections.

•	Upgrade and replace computers, hardware and software systems.

•	Upgrade and replace classroom instructional equipment.

•	Replace or upgrade outdated electrical systems.

School Energy Efficiency Projects

Goal and Purpose: To increase energy efficiency, reduce operating costs and allow more
resources available for the classroom:

•	Install improved energy management systems to reduce utility costs.

•	Install energy efficient systems.

•	Replace existing window systems with energy efficient systems.

•	Provide local match for participating in state funded energy efficient, and sustainable
schools programs.

•	Retrofit, upgrade and/or replace aging light fixtures and air conditioner controls to reduce
operating costs.

New School Construction/Reduce School
Overcrowding Projects

Goal and Purpose: To reduce the severe and unsafe overcrowding at some neighborhood
schools, accommodate future enrollment growth, and to attract and retain excellent
teachers, construct up to seven (7) new schools and earthquake and accessibility code
compliant facilities, such as:

•	Additional classrooms, libraries, computer labs, cafeterias, buildings and elementary schools
which will reduce the enrollment at existing schools to a level which will optimize learning.

•	Create smaller learning communities that allow teachers to closely monitor students and
offer more individual attention.

N SB 260-025

•	Provide for specialized schools of choice curriculums in technology, foreign languages and
math and create new schools with curriculums focused on pursuits such as math, science,
medicine, and other careers.

•	Create teaching environments designed to attract and retain excellent teachers.

Listed building, repair and rehabilitation projects and upgrades will be completed as needed.
Each project is assumed to include its share of furniture, equipment, architectural, engineering,
and similar planning costs, program/project management, staff training expenses and a
customary contingency for unforeseen design and construction cost. In addition to the listed
repair and construction projects stated above, the Priority School Project Lists also include the
acquisition of a variety of instructional, maintenance and operational equipment, including the
reduction or retirement of bonds or lease obligations obtained by the District to finance projects
listed herein in advance of bonds of this measure being issued, the acquisition of land, payment
of the costs of preparation of all facility planning, facility studies, assessment reviews, facility
master plan preparation and updates, environmental studies (including environmental
investigation, remediation and monitoring), design and construction documentation, and
temporary housing of dislocated District activities caused by construction projects. The allocation
of bond proceeds will be affected by the District’s receipt of State matching funds and the final
costs of each project. In the absence of State matching funds, which the District will aggressively
pursue to reduce the District’s share of the costs of the projects, the District will not be able to
complete some of the projects listed above. Some projects may be undertaken as joint use
projects in cooperation with other local public or non-profit agencies. Possible Joint-use type
projects could include any of the following at various school sites identified in the Facilities 5-Year
Master Plan: gymnasiums, libraries, multi-purpose rooms, media centers/or labs, playfields,
parking, art and athletic facilities, facilities for pre and after school programs, career technical
facilities, classrooms, computer or technical labs, energy-efficient, renewable and/or sustainable
facility projects. The budget for each project is an estimate and may be affected by factors
beyond the District’s control. The final cost of each project will be determined as plans and
construction documents are finalized, construction bids are received, construction contracts are
awarded and projects are completed. Based on the final costs of each project, certain of the
projects described above may be delayed or may not be completed. Demolition of existing
facilities and reconstruction of facilities scheduled for repair and upgrade may occur, if the Board
determines that such an approach would be more cost-effective in creating more enhanced and
operationally efficient campuses. Necessary site preparation/restoration may occur in connection
with new construction, renovation or remodeling, or installation or removal of relocatable
classrooms, including ingress and egress, removing, replacing, or installing irrigation, utility lines,
trees and landscaping, relocating fire access roads, and acquiring any necessary easements,
licenses, or rights of way to the property. Proceeds of the bonds may be used to pay or
reimburse the District for the cost of District staff when performing work on or necessary and
incidental to bond projects. Bond proceeds shall only be expended for the specific purposes
identified herein. The District shall create an account into which proceeds of the bonds shall be
deposited and comply with the reporting requirements of Government Code § 53410.

NO ADMINISTRATOR SALARIES. PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF THE BONDS
AUTHORIZED BY THIS PROPOSITION SHALL BE USED ONLY FOR THE ACQUISITION,
CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION, OR REPLACEMENT OF SCHOOL
FACILITIES, INCLUDING THE FURNISHING AND EQUIPPING OF SCHOOL FACILITIES, AND
NOT FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE, INCLUDING TEACHER AND SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR
SALARIES AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES.

FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY. THE EXPENDITURE OF BOND MONEY ON THESE PROJECTS
IS SUBJECT TO STRINGENT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS. BY LAW,
PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL AUDITS WILL BE PERFORMED ANNUALLY, AND ALL
BOND EXPENDITURES WILL BE MONITORED BY AN INDEPENDENT CITIZENS’
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE TO ENSURE THAT FUNDS ARE SPENT AS PROMISED AND
SPECIFIED. THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MUST INCLUDE, AMONG OTHERS,
REPRESENTATION OF A BONA FIDE TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION, A BUSINESS
ORGANIZATION AND A SENIOR CITIZENS ORGANIZATION. NO DISTRICT EMPLOYEES
OR VENDORS ARE ALLOWED TO SERVE ON THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.

N SB 260-026

MEASURE V

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

A yes vote by fifty-five percent (55%) of the voters within the Victor Valley Union High School
District voting on this measure will authorize the Board of Education of the District to issue and
sell bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $500,000,000 at an interest rate below legal
limits. The District may only use the bond funds for the specific school facilities projects listed in
the District Bond Project List, which has been approved by action of the Board of Education and
is Exhibit A to its Resolution ordering this election.

If this measure passes, the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors will be required to
annually levy a tax upon the property in the District sufficient to pay the principal and interest on
any outstanding bonds of the District as the principal and interest becomes due. This tax will be
in addition to the one percent (1%) property tax provided for under current law.

If less than fifty-five percent (55%) of the voters voting on this measure vote yes, the Board of
Education of the District will not be authorized to issue and sell the $500,000,000 of bonds set
forth in the measure.

This measure will not have any effect on existing law.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure V. If you desire a copy of the
measure, please call the San Bernardino County Registrar of Voters at (909) 387-2083 or
the Victor Valley Union High School District at (760) 955-3201 and a copy will be mailed at
no cost to you.

If Measure V is approved, the Board of Education of the Victor Valley Union High School
District will appoint a citizens’ oversight committee and conduct annual independent
audits to assure that bond funds are spent only on the construction, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, or replacement of school facilities, including the furnishing and equipping
of school facilities, or the acquisition or lease of real property for school facilities, and for
no other purposes.

RUTH E. STRINGER
County Counsel

s/DANIEL B. HAUETER
Principal Assistant County Counsel

Approval of Measure V does not guarantee that the proposed project or projects in the
Victor Valley Union High School District that are the subject of bonds under Measure V will
be funded beyond the local revenues generated by Measure V. The school district’s
proposal for the project or projects may assume the receipt of matching state funds,
which could be subject to appropriation by the Legislature or approval of a statewide bond
measure.

PR-8022-1

N SB 260-029

MEASURE V

TAX RATE STATEMENT

An election will be held in the Victor Valley Union High School District (the “District”) on
November 4, 2008, to authorize the sale of up to $500,000,000 in bonds of the District to finance
school facilities as described in the proposition. If the bonds are approved, the District expects to
issue the Bonds in up to four (4) series over a ten (10) year period. Principal and interest on the
bonds will be payable from the proceeds of tax levies made upon the taxable property in the
District. The following information is provided in compliance with Sections 9400-9404 of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

1.	The best estimate of the tax which would be required to be levied to fund this bond issue
during the first fiscal year after the sale of the first series of bonds, based on estimated assessed
valuations available at the time of filing of this statement, is 3.00 cents per $100 ($30.00 per
$100,000) of assessed valuation in fiscal year 2009-10.

2.	The best estimate of the tax rate which would be required to be levied to fund this bond
issue during the first fiscal year after the sale of the last series of bonds, based on estimated
assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this statement, is 3.00 cents per $100
($30.00 per $100,000) of assessed valuation in fiscal year 2018-19.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate which would be required to be levied to fund this
bond issue, based on estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this
statement, is 3.00 cents per $100 ($30.00 per $100,000) of assessed valuation and is expected
to remain approximately the same in each year during the term of repayment of the bonds.

Voters should note that estimated tax rates are based on the ASSESSED VALUE of taxable
property on the County’s official tax rolls, not on the property’s market value, which could be more
or less than the assessed value. In addition, taxpayers eligible for a property tax exemption, such
as the homeowner’s exemption, will be taxed at a lower effective tax rate than described above.
Certain taxpayers may also be eligible to postpone payment of taxes. Property owners should
consult their own property tax bills and tax advisors to determine their property’s assessed value
and any applicable tax exemptions.

Attention of all voters is directed to the fact that the foregoing information is based upon the
District’s projections and estimates only, which are not binding upon the District. The actual tax
rates and the years in which they will apply may vary from those presently estimated, due to
variations from these estimates in the timing of bond sales, the amount of bonds sold and market
interest rates at the time of each sale, and actual assessed valuations over the term of repayment
of the bonds. The dates of sale and the amount of bonds sold at any given time will be
determined by the District based on need for construction funds and other factors. The actual
interest rates at which the bonds will be sold will depend on the bond market at the time of each
sale. Actual future assessed valuation will depend upon the amount and value of taxable
property within the District as determined by the County Assessor in the annual assessment and
the equalization process.

Dated:	July	24. 2008_________

s/Julian Weaver, Superintendent of Schools,
Victor Valley Union High School District

N SB 260-030

MEASURE V

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Had enough of overcrowded schools, gangs and drugs? YOUR “YES” Vote is needed on
Measure V!

YES on V gives our youth a future away from gangs and towards good jobs by improving high
school safety and vocational education - giving high school students what they need for
college, or careers.

YES on V builds additional community middle/high schools, creating smaller campuses
necessary for teachers, principals and counselors to better monitor students and intervene with
at - risk students.

YES on V increases after-school program space for tutoring, mentoring and recreational
programs. By providing Victor Valley students with safe places to go after school and activities
that instill discipline and respect, we keep our kids off the streets, out of trouble and away from
gangs.

YES on V prepares students for a tough economy by upgrading vocational education
classrooms and equipment. In a recession, jobs are much harder to find - it’s more important
than ever that high school students have job - training programs that prepare them for well -
paying jobs, when they graduate.

YES on V upgrades aging schools and classrooms:

YES on V builds new classrooms, reducing overcrowding

YES on V upgrades security systems with better lighting, fences, surveillance cameras

YES on V installs fire safety equipment, alarms, smoke detectors, sprinklers, emergency lighting

YES on V repairs deteriorating restrooms, drainage, leaking roofs

By law, Measure V requires published financial audits and oversight by an Independent Citizens
Oversight Committee, ensuring all funds are spent properly. NO money can be spent on
administrators’ salaries. ALL funds are tax - deductible.

Yes on V makes local schools eligible for hundreds of millions in state matching dollars that would
otherwise go elsewhere.

Join Parents and Teachers:	Vote	Yes	on	V	-	safer high schools for our kids. Visit

www.victorvallevYesonV.com for more information or a lawn sign.

s/DeAnn Hudgens

Victor Valley High School PTO

s/Anna Slavick
Teacher

s/Ryan McEachron
Business Leader

s/Ernie Mora
Latino Leader

s/Lionel Dew

African American Leader

N SB 260-031

MEASURE V

FULL BALLOT TEXT

VICTOR VALLEY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SAFE SCHOOLS, CLASSROOM REPAIR AND
EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT MEASURE

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Victor Valley Union High School District
Safe Schools, Classroom Repair and Education Improvement Measure” or as “Measure V”.

BOND AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least 55% of the registered voters voting on the proposition,
the Victor Valley Union High School District (the “District”) shall be authorized to issue and sell
bonds of up to $500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount to provide financing for the specific
school facilities projects listed in the Bond Project List attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Bond
Project List”), and qualify to receive State of California matching grant funds, subject to all of the
accountability safeguards specified below.

ACCOUNTABILITY SAFEGUARDS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in order that the voters
and taxpayers of the District may be assured that their money will be spent to address specific
facilities needs of the District, all in compliance with the requirements of Article XIIIA,
Section 1(b)(3) of the California Constitution, and the Strict Accountability in Local School
Construction Bonds Act of 2000 (codified at California Education Code (the “Education Code”)
Sections 15264 and following).

Evaluation of Needs. The Board of Trustees of the District (the “Board”) has reviewed the
District’s facility master plan in order to evaluate and address all of the facilities needs of the
District at each campus and facility, and to determine which projects to finance from a local bond
at this time. The Board hereby certifies that it has evaluated safety, class size reduction and
information technology needs in developing the Bond Project List.

Limitations on Use of Bonds. Proceeds from the sale of bonds authorized by this proposition
shall be used only for the construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or replacement of school
facilities, including the furnishing and equipping of school facilities, or the acquisition or lease of
real property for school facilities, including, to the extent permitted by law, the acquisition or lease
of real property in connection with an existing or future financing of the specific school facilities
projects listed in the Bond Project List, including the prepayment of existing or future interim
lease, certificate of participation or lease revenue bond financings, and not for any other purpose,
including teacher and administrator salaries and other school operating expenses.

Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board shall establish an independent
citizens’ oversight committee (pursuant to Education Code Section 15278 and following), to
ensure bond proceeds are expended only for the school facilities projects listed in the Bond
Project List. The committee shall be established within 60 days of the date when the results of
the election appear in the minutes of the Board. In accordance with Section 15282 of the
Education Code, the citizens’ oversight committee shall consist of at least seven members and
shall include a member active in a business organization representing the business community
located within the District, a member active in a senior citizens’ organization, a member active in
a bona fide taxpayers’ organization, a member that is a parent or guardian of a child enrolled in
the District, and a member that is both a parent or guardian of a child enrolled in the District and
active in a parent-teacher organization.

Annual Performance Audits. The Board shall conduct an annual, independent performance
audit to ensure that the bond proceeds have been expended only on the school facilities projects
listed in the Bond Project List.

N SB 260-032

Annual Financial Audits. The Board shall conduct an annual, independent financial audit of the
bond proceeds until all of those proceeds have been spent for the school facilities projects listed
in the Bond Project List.

Special Bond Proceeds Account: Annual Report to Board. Upon approval of this proposition
and the sale of any bonds approved, the Board shall take actions necessary to establish an
account in which proceeds of the sale of bonds will be deposited. As long as any proceeds of the
bonds remain unexpended, the Superintendent of the District shall cause a report to be filed with
the Board no later than January 1 of each year, commencing January 1, 2010, stating (a) the
amount of bond proceeds received and expended in that year, and (b) the status of any project
funded or to be funded from bond proceeds. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal
year, or other appropriate annual period as the Superintendent of the District shall determine, and
may be incorporated into the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the
Board.

BOND PROJECT LIST

The Bond Project List attached to this resolution as Exhibit A shall be considered a part of the
ballot proposition, and shall be reproduced in any official document required to contain the full
statement of the bond proposition.

The Bond Project List, which is an integral part of this proposition, lists the specific projects the
District proposes to finance with proceeds of the bonds. Listed construction projects,
replacements, repairs, rehabilitation projects and upgrades will be completed as needed at a
particular school or facility site according to Board-established priorities. Each project is assumed
to include its share of costs of the election and bond issuance, architectural, engineering,
inspection, and similar planning and testing costs, project and construction management,
demolition and interim housing costs, a contingency for unforeseen design and construction
costs, and other costs incidental to and necessary for completion of such project. The final cost
of each project will be determined as plans are finalized, construction bids are awarded, and
projects are completed. In addition, certain construction funds expected from non-bond sources,
including State of California grant funds for eligible projects, have not yet been secured.
Therefore, the Board cannot guarantee that the bonds will provide sufficient funds to allow
completion of all listed projects. Alternatively, if the District obtains unexpected funds from non-
bond sources with respect to listed projects, such projects may be enhanced, supplemented or
expanded to the extent of such funds. Some projects may be subject to further government
approvals, including by State officials and boards and/or local environmental or agency approval.
Inclusion of a project on the Bond Project List is not a guarantee that the project will be
completed.

FURTHER SPECIFICATIONS

Joint-Use Projects. The District may enter into agreements with other public agencies or
nonprofit organizations for joint use of school facilities financed with the proceeds of the bonds in
accordance with Education Code Section 17077.42 (or any successor provision). The District
may seek State grant funds for eligible joint-use projects as permitted by law, and this proposition
hereby specifies and acknowledges that bond funds will or may be used to fund all or a portion of
the local share for any eligible joint-use projects identified in the Bond Project List or as otherwise
permitted by California State regulations, as the Board of Trustee shall determine.

Single Purpose. All of the purposes enumerated in this proposition shall be united and voted
upon as one single proposition, pursuant to Education Code Section 15100, and all the
enumerated purposes shall constitute the specific single purpose of the bonds, and proceeds of
the bonds shall be spent only for such purpose, pursuant to California Government Code Section
53410.

Other Terms of the Bonds. When sold, the bonds shall bear interest at an annual rate not
exceeding the statutory maximum, and that interest shall be made payable at the time or times
permitted by law. The bonds may be issued and sold in several series, and no bond shall be
made to mature more than 40 years from the date borne by that bond.

PR-8022-5	N SB 260-033

The Board of Trustees of the Victor Valley Union High School District has determined that
conditions in its current neighborhood schools are over crowded and that additional schools are
needed to accommodate the rapid population growth in the District - enrollment is projected to
increase by 2,000 students over the next five years. In addition, existing schools are old,
deteriorating and in need of significant repairs and upgrades for the health and safety of students
and teachers. After carefully reviewing the needs, the following projects were deemed to be
essential priorities by the Board, and are proposed to be addressed with bond proceeds:

VICTOR VALLEY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSROOMS SAFETY, CONSTRUCTION AND
EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT MEASURE

BOND PROJECT LIST
UPGRADES AND MAJOR REPAIRS OF EXISTING NEIGHBORHOOD SCHOOLS

As sufficient funds are available, bond funds, in conjunction with eligible state funds and other
future District funding/revenue sources, will be used to make the following repairs, improvements
and upgrades to existing neighborhood school campuses and support sites as needed for the
health, safety and academic objectives of students:

•	Renovate, replace, upgrade, acquire and
install major building systems, including
lighting, electrical, heating, cooling and
ventilation, sewer, water, gas, irrigation and
energy efficiency monitoring systems.

•	Construct and/or acquire and install
additional classrooms to accommodate
growth, and furnish and equip such
classrooms.

•	Replace portable classrooms and student
support space with permanent or modular
buildings, and furnish and equip such
buildings.

•	Upgrade, replace, acquire and/or install
school and district-wide security systems,
including security cameras and monitoring
systems, exterior and interior lighting,
fencing and communication systems,
including public address, clock, bell and fire
alarms.

•	Improve, rehabilitate, modify, upgrade
and/or construct walkways, overhangs and
lunch and shade shelters.

•	Upgrade/install voice and data
communication systems, including network
and electrical infrastructure and wiring to
accommodate computer technology
upgrades.

•	Renovate, improve, reconfigure, expand
and/or construct libraries, including
infrastructure for technology, and furnish
and equip such libraries.

•	Renovate, reconfigure, upgrade, expand
and/or construct interior building space to
accommodate new technology and provide
computer labs as needed, replace, acquire
and/or install wiring and related equipment
and fixtures for such technology.

•	Renovate, rehabilitate, repair, replace, and
construct multipurpose rooms, physical
education facilities, food service,
preparation and support facilities, and
furnish and equip such facilities.

•	Repair, rehabilitate, replace and/or upgrade
restrooms, including fixtures, walls, wall
coverings, floor coverings, plumbing and
electrical.

•	Repair, replace, renovate, upgrade, acquire,
install, resurface, construct, re-construct
and/or remove potholes, fencing, drainage
and erosion control systems, ingress and
egress areas, hardscapes, walkways, fields,
play structures, equipment and surfaces,
sport diamonds and backstops and related
facilities.

•	Construct physical education facilities,
multipurpose rooms, libraries, teacher
education and child care facilities. All or
portions of these facilities may be used as
joint-use projects within the meaning of
Section 17077.42(c) of the Education Code
(or any successor provision).

PR-8022-6

N SB 260-034

UPGRADES AND MAJOR REPAIRS OF EXISTING NEIGHBORHOOD SCHOOLS

(continued)

•	Repair, replace, upgrade and/or improve
existing classroom interiors as needed,
including walls, wall coverings, window
coverings, ceilings, floors, floor coverings
and casework and acquire and install
classroom furniture and equipment as
needed, including teaching walls, computers
and instructional media and presentation
equipment.

•	Repair, replace, upgrade and/or rehabilitate
existing school building exteriors as needed,
including roofs, weather protection systems
and fixtures, gutters, downspouts, doors,
windows, door and window hardware,
window glazing and exterior paint.

•	Construct and/or install access
improvements for disabled persons, as
required by state and federal law.

•	Remove hazardous materials such as
asbestos and lead paint from school
facilities as needed.

•	Purchase land and any rights-of-way and/or
easements made necessary by listed bond
projects.

•	Associated onsite and offsite development,
demolition and other improvements made
necessary by listed bond projects.

•	Planning, designing, and providing
temporary housing necessary for listed
bond projects.

•	Acquire and install furnishings and
equipment related to listed bond projects,
including desks and tables, window and
floor coverings (including tiles and
carpeting), computers, instructional media
and presentation equipment, food service
equipment, health care training equipment,
and science/laboratory equipment.

DISTRICT PRIORITY UPGRADE AND MAJOR REPAIR PROJECTS

As needed and as sufficient funds are available, the District will complete the following priority
upgrade and major repair projects on each campus or school site highlighted below.

VICTOR VALLEY HIGH SCHOOL

Health and Safety

•	Acquire and install fencing around perimeter of campus and parking areas and acquire and
install security cameras and lighting on campus and grounds.

• Resurface, repair and/or replace cracking concrete and asphalt on school grounds, parking
areas, walkways, other path of travel zones and student drop-off areas, repair, refurbish
resurface and/or remove potholes in track, playfield and hard court areas, and shore up
hillsides.

•	Acquire and install signage, and reconfigure and/or improve traffic flow in parent/bus drop-off
areas and improve and/or expand parking to alleviate congestion and improve safety.

•	Upgrade, replace, acquire and/or install public address, bell and alarm systems with school
wide integrated systems.

•	Replace Swamp Cooler System with energy efficient heating, cooling and ventilation system.

•	Rehabilitate, repair, renovate, improve, upgrade, construct and/or re-construct restrooms.

•	Renovate, repair, replace and/or upgrade sewer system that frequently overflows.

Improvements for Education: Classrooms and Support Spaces

•	Improve and/or upgrade classrooms to accommodate technology upgrades, including
acquiring and installing wiring and additional electrical outlets, and acquire and install
technology fixtures and equipment, including ceiling mounted projectors, teaching walls and
data drops or connections for internet access, and repair, replace, improve and/or expand
casework and storage.

•	Construct and/or renovate, repair, upgrade and/or replace computer labs, and furnish and
equip such labs.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade and/or expand library and computer lab, construct storage space for
textbooks and testing materials, and furnish and equip such libra

PR-8022-7

N SB 260-035

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade and/or replace science labs, and furnish and equip such labs.

•	Renovate, repair, replace, construct, upgrade and/or modernize permanent classrooms and
student support/service facilities, including food service, preparation and support facilities,
shade and shelter structures and student service facilities, replace aging portable classrooms
with permanent or modular buildings, and furnish and equip such facilities.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade and/or construct facilities for band, string instrument, choral and
drama programs.

•	Upgrade and construct career technical education facilities to support medical, childcare,
culinary, wood technology, welding, auto and other vocational training programs.

Improvements to Physical Education, Support Space, Exterior, and Community Use

Facilities

•	Acquire and install heating, cooling and ventilation systems.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade, construct and/or upgrade physical education facilities, and furnish
and equip such facilities. All or portions of these facilities may be used as joint-use projects
within the meaning of Section 17077.42(c) of the Education Code (or any successor provision).

•	Repair, replace, upgrade, acquire and/or install drinking fountains.

•	Paint/resurface exteriors, repair and/or replace roofs and windows as needed, repair and/or
replace utility lines and systems and improve or replace drainage and irrigation systems.

SILVERADO HIGH SCHOOL

Health and Safety

•	Replace and/or acquire and install fencing around perimeter of campus and parking areas and
acquire and install security cameras and lighting on campus and grounds.

•	Resurface, repair and/or replace cracking concrete and asphalt on school grounds, parking
areas, walkways, other path of travel zones and student drop-off areas, repair, refurbish
resurface and/or remove potholes in track, playfield and hard court areas, and shore up
hillsides.

•	Acquire and install signage, and reconfigure and/or improve traffic flow in parent/bus drop-off
areas and improve and/or expand parking to alleviate congestion and improve safety.

•	Upgrade, replace, acquire and/or install public address, bell and alarm systems - integrate
campus systems to reach all classrooms in an emergency

•	Rehabilitate, repair, renovate, improve, upgrade, construct and/or re-construct restrooms.

Improvements for Education: Classrooms and Support Spaces

•	Improve and/or upgrade classrooms to accommodate technology upgrades, including
acquiring and installing wiring and additional electrical outlets, and acquire and install
technology fixtures and equipment, including ceiling mounted projectors, teaching walls and
data drops or connections for internet access, and repair, replace, improve and/or expand
casework and storage.

•	Construct and/or renovate, repair, upgrade and/or replace computer labs, and furnish and
equip such labs.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade and/or expand library and computer lab, construct storage space for
textbooks and testing materials, and furnish and equip such library and lab.

•	Construct large rooms for students testing.

•	Renovate, repair, replace, construct, upgrade and/or modernize permanent classrooms and
student support/service facilities, including food service, preparation and support facilities,
shade and shelter structures and student service facilities, replace aging portable classrooms
with permanent or modular buildings, and furnish and equip such facilities.

•	Upgrade and construct career technical education facilities to support medical, childcare,
culinary, wood technology, welding, auto and other vocational training programs.

N SB 260-036

SILVERADO HIGH SCHOOL
(continued)

Improvements to Physical Education, Support Space, Exterior, and Community Use

Facilities

•	Acquire and install heating, cooling and ventilation systems.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade, construct and/or upgrade physical education facilities, including
track/playfields to accommodate high school sports program, and furnish and equip such
facilities. All or portions of these facilities may be used as joint-use projects within the meaning
of Section 17077.42(c) of the Education Code (or any successor provision).

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade, resurface and remove potholes from sport fields and track.

•	Repair, replace, upgrade, acquire and/or install drinking fountains.

•	Paint/resurface exteriors, repair and/or replace roofs and windows as needed, repair and/or
replace utility lines and systems and improve or replace drainage and irrigation systems.

UNIVERSITY PREPARATORY HIGH SCHOOL

Health and Safety

•	Upgrade, replace, acquire and/or install public address, bell and alarm systems with school
wide integrated systems - integrate campus systems to reach all classrooms in an emergency.

•	Resurface, repair and/or replace cracking concrete and asphalt on school grounds, parking
areas, walkways, other path of travel zones and student drop-off areas, repair, refurbish
resurface and/or remove potholes in track, playfield and hard court areas, and shore up
hillsides.

•	Acquire and install signage, and reconfigure and/or improve traffic flow in parent/bus drop-off
areas and improve and/or expand parking to alleviate congestion and improve safety.

•	Replace Swamp Cooler System with energy efficient heating, cooling and ventilation system.

•	Replace and/or acquire and install fencing around perimeter of campus and parking areas and
acquire and install security cameras and lighting on campus and grounds.

Improvements for Education: Classrooms and Support Spaces

•	Improve and/or upgrade classrooms to accommodate technology upgrades, including
acquiring and installing wiring and additional electrical outlets, and acquire and install
technology fixtures and equipment, including ceiling mounted projectors, teaching walls and
data drops or connections for internet access, and repair, replace, improve and/or expand
casework and storage.

•	Construct and/or renovate, repair, upgrade and/or replace computer labs, and furnish and
equip such labs.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade and/or replace science labs, and furnish and equip such labs.

•	Renovate, repair, replace, construct, upgrade and/or modernize permanent classrooms and
student support/service facilities, including food service, preparation and support facilities,
shade and shelter structures and student service facilities, replace aging portable classrooms
with permanent or modular buildings, and furnish and equip such facilities.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade and/or construct facilities for band, string instrument, choral and
drama programs.

•	Replace windows with double paned energy efficient windows.

Improvements to Physical Education, Support Space, Exterior, and Community Use

Facilities

•	Acquire and install heating, cooling and ventilation systems.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade, construct and/or upgrade physical education facilities, and furnish
and equip such facilities. All or portions of these facilities may be used as joint-use projects
within the meaning of Section 17077.42(c) of the Education Code (or any successor provision).

•	Update track/playfields to accommodate high school sports program.

PR-8022-9

N SB 260-037

•	Construct multipurpose facility for performances and community use. All or portions of this
facility may be used as a joint-use project within the meaning of Section 17077.42(c) of the
Education Code (or any successor provision).

•	Paint/resurface exteriors, repair and/or replace roofs and windows as needed, repair and/or
replace utility lines and systems and improve or replace drainage and irrigation systems.

HOOK JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL

Health and Safety

•	Replace and/or acquire and install fencing around perimeter of campus and parking areas and
acquire and install security cameras and lighting on campus and grounds.

•	Resurface, repair and/or replace cracking concrete and asphalt on school grounds, parking
areas, walkways, other path of travel zones and student drop-off areas, and repair, refurbish
resurface and/or remove potholes in track, playfield and hard court areas.

•	Acquire and install signage, and reconfigure and/or improve traffic flow in parent/bus drop-off
areas and improve and/or expand parking to alleviate congestion and improve safety.

•	Upgrade, replace, acquire and/or install public address, bell and alarm systems with school
wide integrated systems.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade and/or replace failing overhangs/facia over classroom building
walkways - plaster is cracked and falling.

•	Upgrade quad area to remove potholes, improve irrigation and drainage and improve
landscape and hardscape.

Improvements for Education: Classrooms and Support Spaces

•	Improve and/or upgrade classrooms to accommodate technology upgrades, including
acquiring and installing wiring and additional electrical outlets, and acquire and install
technology fixtures and equipment, including ceiling mounted projectors, teaching walls and
data drops or connections for internet access, and repair, replace, improve and/or expand
casework and storage.

•	Construct and/or renovate, repair, upgrade and/or replace library media center and conference
rooms, and renovate, repair, upgrade and/or expand student support/service facilities.

•	Construct and/or renovate, repair, upgrade and/or replace computer labs, and furnish and
equip such labs.

•	Renovate, repair, replace, construct, upgrade and/or modernize permanent classrooms and
student support/service facilities, including food service, preparation and support facilities,
shade and shelter structures and student service facilities, and furnish and equip such
facilities.

•	Replace aging portable classrooms with permanent or modular buildings, and furnish and
equip such facilities.

Improvements to Physical Education, Support Space, Exterior, and Community Use

Facilities

•	Replace cooler chiller system with and energy efficient heating, cooling and ventilation system.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade, construct and/or upgrade physical education facilities, and furnish
and equip such facilities. All or portions of this facility may be used as a joint-use project within
the meaning of Section 17077.42(c) of the Education Code (or any successor provision).

•	Upgrade quad area to remove potholes, improve irrigation and drainage and improve
landscape and hardscape.

•	Paint/resurface exteriors, repair and/or replace roofs and windows as needed, repair and/or
replace utility lines and systems and improve or replace drainage and irrigation systems.

N SB 260-038

SUSIE MATTHEWS HIGH SCHOOL/FORMER GOODWILL EDUCATION CENTER

Health and Safety

•	Replace and/or acquire and install fencing around perimeter of campus and parking areas and
acquire and install security cameras and lighting on campus and grounds.

•	Resurface, repair and/or replace cracking concrete and asphalt on school grounds, parking
areas, walkways, other path of travel zones and student drop-off areas, and repair, refurbish
resurface and/or remove potholes in track, playfield and hard court areas.

•	Acquire and install signage, and reconfigure and/or improve traffic flow in parent/bus drop-off
areas and improve and/or expand parking to alleviate congestion and improve safety, and
acquire land to expand parking and drop-off areas.

•	Upgrade, replace, acquire and/or install public address, bell and alarm systems with school
wide integrated systems.

•	Upgrade power and electrical outlets.

Improvements for Education: Classrooms and Support Spaces

•	Improve and/or upgrade classrooms to accommodate technology upgrades, including
acquiring and installing wiring and additional electrical outlets, and acquire and install
technology fixtures and equipment, including ceiling mounted projectors, teaching walls and
data drops or connections for internet access, and repair, replace, improve and/or expand
casework and storage.

•	Construct computer labs, and furnish and equip such labs.

•	Renovate, repair, replace, construct, upgrade and/or modernize permanent classrooms and
student support/service facilities, including food service, preparation and support facilities,
shade and shelter structures and student service facilities, replace aging portable classrooms
and support areas with permanent or modular buildings, and furnish and equip such facilities.

•	Construct, reconstruct, reconfigure, relocate, acquire and/or install classrooms with restrooms
for students with special needs.

•	Renovate, repair, modernize and expand library with book stacks and computer lab with
internet access, and furnish and equip such library.

•	Renovate offices and teacher workroom, add space for storage for confidential files and
privacy conference rooms/offices, separate student holding and parent waiting area, and
construct a health office for sick students.

•	Replace/upgrade lighting with energy efficient fixtures in classrooms and support areas.

Improvements to Physical Education, Support Space, Exterior, and Community Use

Facilities

•	Replace or repair poorly functioning heating, cooling and ventilation systems in permanent
buildings with energy efficient heating, cooling and ventilation systems.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade, construct and/or upgrade physical education facilities, and furnish
and equip such facilities. All or portions of these facilities may be used as joint-use projects
within the meaning of Section 17077.42(c) of the Education Code (or any successor provision).

•	Replace deteriorating portable restrooms with permanent restrooms and replace windows with
double paned energy efficient windows.

•	Paint/resurface exteriors, repair and/or replace roofs and windows as needed, repair and/or
replace utility lines and systems and improve or replace drainage and irrigation systems.

COBALT MIDDLE SCHOOL

Health and Safety

•	Replace, acquire and install fencing around perimeter of campus and parking areas and
acquire and install security cameras and lighting on campus and grounds.

•	Construct and relocate parking areas, walkways, other path of travel zones and student drop-
off areas.

•	Acquire and install public address, bell and alarm systems with school wide integrated
systems.

•	Redesign and improve front of school to face Dos Palmas to reduce conflict with Silverado
High School ingress and egress and construct controlled main point of entry to secure campus.

Improvements for Education: Classrooms and Support Spaces

•	Improve, construct, reconstruct and/or upgrade classrooms to accommodate technology
upgrades, including acquiring and installing wiring and additional electrical outlets, and acquire
and install technology fixtures and equipment, including ceiling mounted projectors, teaching
walls and data drops or connections for internet access, and repair, replace, improve and/or
expand casework and storage.

•	Replace temporary, deteriorating buildings with permanent structures, and furnish and equip
such buildings.

•	Construct and/or renovate, repair, upgrade and/or replace computer labs, and furnish and
equip such labs.

•	Construct and/or renovate, repair, upgrade and/or replace library media center and conference
rooms, and renovate, repair, upgrade and/or expand student support/service facilities, and
furnish and equip such facilities.

•	Construct multipurpose facilities, food service, preparation and support facilities, administrative
offices, shade and shelter structures and student service facilities. All or portions of these
facilities may be used as joint-use projects within the meaning of Section 17077.42(c) of the
Education Code (or any successor provision).

Improvements to Physical Education, Support Space, Exterior, and Community Use

Facilities

•	Acquire and install energy efficient windows and heating, cooling and ventilation systems in
replacement buildings.

•	Renovate, repair, upgrade, construct and/or upgrade physical education facilities, and furnish
and equip such facilities. All or portions of these facilities may be used as joint-use projects
within the meaning of Section 17077.42(c) of the Education Code (or any successor provision).

•	Construct and/or acquire and install plumbing, electrical, mechanical, fire alarm, public
address, other communication and systems, and construct and/or acquire and install plant
operation and storage facilities.

•	Replace deteriorating portable restrooms with permanent restrooms.

•	Landscape campus, construct sidewalks, walkways for safe path of travel

CHARTER SCHOOL FACILITIES

Acquisition and construction of charter school facilities, including

•	Acquisition of sites and any rights-of-way
and easements made necessary by
construction of such facilities.

•	Planning, designing, and constructing the
school and related facilities, including
costs related to construction services,
architectural design, engineering, site
inspection and testing services and plan
review fees.

•	Associated onsite and offsite development
and other improvements made necessary by
construction of such facilities.

•	Construction of classrooms, library, physical
education, student support / service and
office facilities, restrooms, shade and
shelter structures, parking and grounds.

•	Acquisition and installation of furnishings
and equipment related to the constructed
facilities

PR-8022-12

N SB 260-040

ADDITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD SCHOOLS TO ADDRESS OVERCROWDING AND
POPULATION GROWTH

(Additional school construction is dependent on matching State funding availability. Matching
funds are only potentially available with passage of local bond.)

ADDITIONAL ADELANTO HIGH SCHOOL
VICTOR VALLEY 9™ GRADE HIGH SCHOOL
FUTURE HIGH SCHOOL

Acquisition and construction of three additional high schools and related facilities, designed to
house from approximately 1600 to 3000 students, including:

Acquisition of sites and any right-of-way and
easements made necessary by construction
of such facilities.

Planning, designing, and constructing the
school and related facilities, including
costs related to construction services,
architectural design, engineering, site
inspection and testing services and plan
review fees.

Associated onsite and offsite development,
demolition of existing structures, and other
improvements made necessary for
construction of such facilities.

Construction of classrooms, school
support/counseling offices, cafeterias, joint
use multipurpose instructional/assembly
facilities, joint use gymnasium, physical
education/sports facilities, school grounds,
science, technology and computer labs,
joint use library, theater and restrooms.

Acquisition and installation of furnishings
and equipment related to the constructed
facilities.

Construction of specialized career technical
education and vocational training facilities,
and furnish and equip such facilities.

FUTURE NORTH 1 FUTURE MIDI	MIDDLE SCHOOL OLE SCHOOL
Acquisition and construction of two additional nr house approximately 1,500 students, including	liddle schools and related facilities, designed to

Acquisition of sites and any right-of-way and
easements made necessary by construction
of such facilities.

Construction of classrooms, school support/
counseling offices, food services, joint
use multipurpose instructional/assembly
facilities, joint use gymnasium, physical
education/sports facilities, school grounds,
science, technology and computer labs, joint
use library, and restrooms.

Planning, designing, and constructing the
school and related facilities, including
costs related to construction services,
architectural design, engineering, site
inspection and testing services and plan
review fees.

Associated onsite and offsite development
and other improvements made necessary
by construction of such facilities.

Acquisition and installation of furnishings
and equipment related to the constructed
facilities.

MISCELLANEOUS

The above projects are the priorities that have been identified by the Board of Trustees of the
Victor Valley Union High School District. Projects are not listed in priority order and may be
enhanced, supplemented or expanded to the extent unexpected funds are available for such
projects from non-bond sources. As used in the bond project list, the term “physical education
facilities” means gymnasiums, stadiums, bleachers, team and locker rooms, weight training and
wrestling rooms and other physical education classrooms, sport and play fields, tracks, hard
courts, pools and pool facilities and related equipment and fixtures as need at each school site as
determined by the Board of Trustees of the Victor Valley Union High School District. The bond
project list also includes the acquisition of all or a portion of any school site or facility, or an
interest therein, encumbered in order to finance or refinance the listed school projects.

PR-8022-13

N SB 260-041

MEASURE JJ

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

A yes vote by fifty-five percent (55%) of the voters within the Victor Valley Community College
District voting on this measure will authorize the Board of Trustees of the District to issue and sell
bonds in the principal amount of $297,500,000 at an interest rate below legal limits. The District
may only use the bond funds for the specific college facilities projects listed in the District Bond
Projects List, which has been approved by action of the Board of Trustees and is Exhibit B to its
Resolution ordering this election.

If this measure passes, the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors will be required to
annually levy a tax upon the property in the District sufficient to pay the principal and interest on
any outstanding bonds of the District as the principal and interest becomes due. This tax will be
in addition to the one percent (1%) property tax provided for under current law.

If less than fifty-five percent (55%) of the voters voting on this measure vote yes, the Board of
Trustees of the District will not be authorized to issue and sell the $297,500,000 of bonds set forth
in the measure.

This measure will not have any effect on existing law.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure JJ. If you desire a copy of the
measure, please call the San Bernardino County Registrar of Voters at (909) 387-2083 or
the Victor Valley Community College District at (760) 245-4271 and a copy will be mailed at
no cost to you.

If Measure JJ is approved, the Board of Trustees of the Victor Valley Community College
District will appoint a citizens’ oversight committee and conduct annual independent
audits to assure that bond funds are spent only on the construction, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, or replacement of college facilities, including the furnishing and equipping
of college facilities, or the acquisition or lease of real property for college facilities, and for
no other purposes.

RUTH E. STRINGER
County Counsel

s/DANIEL B. HAUETER
Principal Assistant County Counsel

Approval of Measure JJ does not guarantee that the proposed project or projects in the
Victor Valley Community College District that are the subject of bonds under Measure JJ
will be funded beyond the local revenues generated by Measure JJ. The school district’s
proposal for the project or projects may assume the receipt of matching state funds,
which could be subject to appropriation by the Legislature or approval of a statewide bond
measure.

PR-8037-1

N SB 260-042

MEASURE JJ

TAX RATE STATEMENT

An election will be held in the Victor Valley Community College District (the “District”) on
November 4, 2008, for the purpose of submitting to the electors of the District the question of
issuing bonds of the District in a principal amount not to exceed $297,500,000. If such bonds are
authorized and sold, the principal thereof and interest thereon will be payable from the proceeds
of tax levies made upon the taxable property in the District. The following information regarding
tax rates is given to comply with Section 9401 of the California Election Code. Such information
is based upon the best estimates and projections presently available from official sources, upon
experience with the District, and other demonstrable factors.

Based upon the foregoing and projections of the District’s assessed valuation, and assuming the
entire debt service will be paid through property taxation:

1.	The best estimate of the tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund the bond issue
during the first fiscal year after the sale of the first series of bonds based on estimated
assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this statement is 1.995 cents per $100
of assessed valuation for fiscal year 2009-10.

2.	The best estimate of the tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund the bond issue
during the first fiscal year after the sale of the last series of bonds based on estimated
assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this statements is 1.995 cents per $100
of assessed valuation for fiscal year 2016-17.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund the bond
issue, and an estimate of the years in which that rate will apply, based on estimated
assessed valuations available at the time of the filing of this statement is again 1.995 cents
per $100 of assessed valuation, which is projected to be the same in every fiscal year that
the bonds remain outstanding.

Attention to all voters is directed to the fact that the foregoing information is based upon
projections and estimates only, which are not binding upon the District. The actual timing of bond
sales and the amount of bonds sold at any given time will be governed by the needs of the
District, the state of the bond market, and other factors. The actual interest rates on any bonds
sold will depend upon market conditions and other factors at the time of sale. The actual
assessed valuations in future years will depend upon the value of property within the District as
determined in the assessment and equalization process. Therefore, the actual tax rates and the
years in which such rates are applicable may vary from those presently estimated as stated
above.

s/Dr, Robert Silverman, Ph.D.
Superintendent/ President
Victor Valley Community College District

N SB 260-043

MEASURE JJ

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

YES on JJ gives YOU - the High Desert voter - the power to exercise Local Control over our
region’s education and job training needs.

Even in today’s economy, the High Desert is still one of California’s fastest growing areas - and
Victor Valley College is the primary source for training local firefighters, paramedics, police,
nurses and qualified workers for most local jobs.

Vote YES on JJ, so our College can improve outdated, inadequate and small training facilities
and classrooms. Every dime raised by YES on JJ is controlled locally to improve education and
job training here. YES on JJ generates millions in construction related jobs and materials,
helping our Desert economy.

YES on JJ establishes a Firefighter/ Police/ Paramedic Training Center on donated land in Apple
Valley to expand public safety training, keeping our communities safe.

YES on JJ completes repairs and upgrades to the main College campus ~ ensuring safe, healthy
and adequate classrooms for our students and faculty.

YES on JJ establishes a Healthcare/Workforce Training Center on the Westside to expand
training for nursing, hospitality and high-tech jobs - relieving traffic congestion on Bear Valley
Road, and making it easier for students to attend courses closer to home.

YES on JJ qualifies Victor Valley College for millions of dollars in matching state funds that would
otherwise go elsewhere.

YES on JJ includes strong fiscal accountability protections, including a Bond Expenditure Plan
and independent annual audits. It retires past funding obligations used by the College for
campus improvements - freeing more money for the classroom. An Independent Citizens’
Oversight Committee will monitor spending, guaranteeing that all funds are being spent as
promised - with NO money for administrators salaries.

Join Police Officers, Firefighters, Nurses, Doctors, Business Leaders, Teachers, Students and
college staff - vote YES on JJ. Visit www.citizenstobuildvvc.org for more information.

s/Wendy Rosales, Hospitality Business Leader

s/Art Bishop, Deputy Fire Chief
Apple Valley Fire Protection District

s/Donna Smith, RN, Chief Nursing Officer
Desert Valley Hospital

s/Christina Zambrano, Student Body President
and Student Trustee

PR-8037-3

N SB 260-044

MEASURE JJ

FULL BALLOT TEXT

“Victor Valiev College Public Safety. Health Care Job Training Measure. To improve
education, prepare students for well-paying jobs and university transfer and qualify for State
matching funds, shall Victor Valley Community College District improve classrooms, labs and
educational buildings and establish a Workforce Training Center and Public Safety Academy for
nursing, healthcare, emergency medical, police, firefighting and business careers, upgrade aging
infrastructure, acquire sites, equipment, construct/repair buildings/science labs, by issuing
$297,500,000 million in bonds, at legal rates with independent citizens’ oversight/no money for
administrators’ salaries?”

BOND PROJECTS LIST

The Board of Trustees of the Victor Valley Community College District, to be responsive to the
needs of its High Desert students and the community, evaluated the District’s urgent and critical
educational needs, including providing sufficient classrooms and labs to offer more courses and
programs to students close to home, expanding instructional capacity for programs in nursing and
vocational training, safety issues, class size and offerings, energy cost reduction and information
and computer technology, in developing the scope of projects to be funded. In developing the
scope of projects, the faculty, staff and students have prioritized the key health and safety needs
so that the most critical needs and the most urgent and basic facility needs and repairs that will
make Victor Valley College a contributing partner for learning and community economic growth,
are addressed. The Board conducted comprehensive evaluations and considered the public’s
perspective in developing the scope of college facility projects to be funded as reflected in its
Educational Master Plan 2007 and its Five-Year Facilities Plan, approved by the Board of
Trustees on June 10, 2008, each of which Plans are incorporated herein. The Board concluded
that if these needs were not addressed now, Victor Valley College will be unable to remain
competitive in preparing adult learners for current and emerging High Desert workforce needs,
and university transfer. In preparing this Bond Project List, the Board of Trustees
determines that Victor Valley College must:

•	Expand the number of classrooms and labs that will provide affordable, excellent
immediate job training for critical professions with a shortage of workers, such as
nurses, emergency medical assistants, as well as other health training programs and
public safety programs, such as firefighting and police training.

•	Establish a Public Services (Safety) Academy in partnership with the Apple Valley
Fire Protection District to establish programs in Fire Technology, Emergency Medical
Services, Police/Criminal Justice, and other law enforcement programs.

•	Renovate and expand aging, outdated science classrooms and vocational training
facilities to insure that they are safe, energy efficient and provide access to up-to-date
computers and the instructional technology that is necessary to prepare students to
be competitive in the job market.

•	Establish a Workforce Development Center to expand programs in nursing,
healthcare, business, real estate, hospitality and general education classes.

•	Provide safe classroom throughout the High Desert served by Victor Valley College to
allow adult learners to receive job training skills, and to enable more local students to
transfer to four year universities.

•	Insure that Victor Valley College is part of the solution to the economic challenges of
the region and provide training for employees of attractive profitable businesses in
the High Desert.

N SB 260-045

• Insure that all bond funds stay in the local community and that such funds are
leveraged to qualify for State matching funds, which would otherwise be granted to
other districts.

The Bond Projects List, the Educational Master Plan 2007 and the Five-Year Facilities Plan are
each on file at the office of the President/Superintendent and include the following types of
projects:

Classroom Construction and Improvements to Enhance Job
Training Projects

Goal and Purpose: To respond to the critical shortage of healthcare workers and to
increase opportunities for career training in nursing and healthcare as well as technical
and work force job training and to provide more classrooms for classes necessary to
transfer to a 4-year university, to be housed within a Workforce Development Center:

•	Construct and equip a new Workforce Development Center to provide:

-	Health Services Academy for training/classroom facilities to:

-	train registered nurses

-	train respiratory therapists

-	train certified nursing assistants

-	train medical assistants

-	train certified lab technicians, in pharmacy, medical transcription, medical records,
radiology and psychiatry.

-	Business Administration Academy for training/classroom facilities and equipment for jobs
in emerging business and industries locating in the High Desert.

-	Hospitality Academy for training/classroom facilities and equipment for job training in the
growing food service industries.

-	Logistics Transportation Academy for buildings, programs, and equipment to train
students for jobs generated by aviation-related businesses.

-	General Education and basic skills classrooms and equipment for college transfer classes,
including math, science, English and technology.

Classroom Construction and Improvements to Enhance Public
Safety Job Training Projects

Goal and Purpose:	To	respond	to	the	shortage	of	public safety workers, especially

firefighters and law enforcement professionals, as well as emergency medical technicians,
by expanding those programs at a new Public Services (Safety) Academy, in partnership
with local firefighters and the Apple Valley Fire District.

•	Construct and equip a Public Services (Safety) Center to provide:

-	Fire Technology Department to expand the training of firefighters and advanced
certifications within the fire protection field.

-	Administration of Justice Department to expand the careers in law enforcement,
corrections, and security.

-	Paramedic Academy to provide state-of-the-art training in emergency medical
services, both as technician and a paramedic.

-	General Education and basic skills classrooms and equipment for college transfer
classes, including math, English, science and technology.

N SB 260-046

Main Campus Renovation and Upgrade Projects

Goal and Purpose: Victor Valley College will benefit from the repair, upgrade and
improvement of science buildings, labs, classrooms, and computer learning labs, allowing
all students to have the resources they need to learn and compete for jobs in today’s
competitive and global workforce:

•	Expand and equip science building to include additional science class laboratories,
improved science technology apparatus to provide modern, up-to-date instruction.

•	Upgrade science building infrastructure to expand electrical service capacity to relieve aging
or overloaded electrical systems, replace existing water, sewer and plumbing systems to
meet current codes, eliminate lead-containing fixtures, upgrade aging and deteriorating
bathrooms and replace older heating, ventilation, air conditioning and lighting systems with
building code compliant, energy efficient systems.

•	Retire past funding utilized for campus improvements, making more funding available for
instruction and other academic programs.

Listed building, construction, repair and rehabilitation projects and upgrades will be completed as
needed. Each project is assumed to include its share of furniture, equipment, architectural,
engineering, and similar planning costs, program management, staff training expenses and a
customary contingency for unforeseen design and construction costs. In addition to the listed
repair and construction projects stated above, the Bond Projects List also includes the acquisition
of a variety of instructional, maintenance and operational equipment, the construction of new
buildings, if necessary to serve students, the acquisition of land, the payment of the costs of
preparation of all facility planning, facility assessment reviews, environmental studies and
construction documentation, the acquisition of outstanding ground leases, temporary housing of
dislocated District activities caused by bond projects and the leasing or acquisition of a
transportation lot for school buses. The allocation of bond proceeds will be affected by the
District’s receipt of State matching funds and the final costs of each project. In the absence of
State matching funds, which the District will aggressively pursue to reduce the District’s share of
the costs of the projects, the District will not be able to complete some of the projects listed
above. Certain projects may be undertaken as joint use projects in cooperation with other local
public agencies. The budget for each project is an estimate and may be affected by factors
beyond the District’s control. The final cost of each project will be determined as plans are
finalized, construction bids are awarded and projects are completed. Based on the final costs of
each project, certain of the projects described above may be delayed or may not be completed.
Demolition of existing facilities and reconstruction of facilities scheduled for repair and upgrade
may occur, if the Board determines that such an approach would be more cost-effective in
creating more enhanced and operationally efficient campuses. Necessary site
preparation/restoration may occur in connection with new construction, renovation or remodeling,
or installation or removal of relocatable classrooms, including ingress and egress, removing,
replacing, or installing irrigation, utility lines, tress and landscaping, relocating fire access roads,
and acquiring any necessary easements, licenses, or rights of way to the property. Proceeds of
the bonds may be used to pay or reimburse the District for the cost of District staff when
performing work on or necessary and incidental to bond projects. Bond proceeds shall only be
expended for the specific purposes identified herein. The District shall create an account into
which proceeds of the bonds shall be deposited and comply with the reporting requirements of
Government Code § 53410.

PROJECT CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNTABILITY AND SAFEGUARDS. EACH PROJECTS
PAID FOR WITH BOND MONEY WILL BE SUBJECT TO OVERSIGHT OF A PROFESSIONAL
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT FIRM WITH A PROVEN TRACK RECORD OF DELIVERING
COLLEGE CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS ON-TIME AND ON-BUDGET TO SAVE TAXPAYER
DOLLARS.

N SB 260-047

NO ADMINISTRATOR SALARIES. PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF THE BONDS
AUTHORIZED BY THIS PROPOSITION SHALL BE USED ONLY FOR THE ACQUISITON,
CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION, OR REPLACEMENT OF SCHOOL
FACILITIES, INCLUDING THE FURNISHING AND EQUIPPING OF SCHOOL FACILITIES, AND
NOT FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE, INCLUDING TEACHER AND SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR
SALARIES AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES.

FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY. THE EXPENDITURE OF BOND MONEY ON THESE PROJECTS
IS SUBJECT TO STRINGENT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS. BY LAW,
PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL AUDITS WILL BE PERFORMED ANNUALLY, AND ALL
BOND EXPENDITURES WILL BE MONITORED BY AN INDEPENDENT CITIZENS’
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE TO ENSURE THAT FUNDS ARE SPENT AS PROMISED AND
SPECIFIED. THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MUST INCLUDE, AMONG OTHERS,
REPRESENTATION OF A BONA FIDE TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION, A BUSINESS
ORGANIZATION AND A SENIOR CITIZENS ORGANIZATION. NO DISTRICT EMPLOYEES
OR VENDORS ARE ALLOWED TO SERVE ON THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.

PR-8037-7

N SB 260-048