-PA9E

6

STATE MEASURES

. _ VETERANS’ BOND ACT OF 2008. This act provides for a bond
1 0	issue of nine hundred million dollars ($900,000,000) to provide farm

■ ™	and home aid for California veterans. Fiscal Impact: Costs of about

$1.8 billion to pay off both the principal ($900 million) and interest ($856 million) on
the bonds; costs paid by participating veterans. Average payment for principal and"
million per year for 30 years.	___________

132

YES-*Q

133 no-*o

interest ot about $59

COUNTY MEASURES

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

TRAFFIC RELIEF. RAIL EXTENSIONS. REDUCE FOREIGN OIL D DEPENDENCE. To: Synchronize traffic signals; Repair potholes; Extend ■ * light rail with airport connections; Improve freeway traffic flow (5,10,14,60, 101, 110, 138, 210, 405, 605, 710); Keep senior/student/disabled fares low; Provide clean-fuel buses; Expand subway/Metrolink/bus service; Dedicate millions relief; Shall Los Angeles County's sales tax increase one-half cent for 30 years w public review of expenditures, all locally controlled?		137	YES-KD  138	no»*o  for community traffic th independent audits,
SCHOOL  LONG BEACH UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION		
CLASSROOM REPAIR, STUDENT SAFETY MEASURE. To make K essential health/safety repairs, retain teachers, qualify for matching grants, shall Long Beach Unified School District retrofit schools for earthquake safety/handicap accessibility, repair restrooms/plumbing/rools/fire safety, remove lead paint/asbestos, upgrade vocational classrooms/technology/energ after-school programs, reduce overcrowding, by acquiring, repairing, construe facilities, joint-use buildings, and issuing $1,200,000,000 in bonds at legal rates w citizen's oversight, and no money for administrators' salaries?		143	yes-pO  144	no-pO  y efficiency, expand ting, equipping sites, th independent audits,
DISTRICT  CENTRAL BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT		
Member, Board of Directors, Division 4 Vote for One	RUDY C. MONTALVO 1/l(Wn  Water Resource Educator 1 ^3 ^ LJ	
	LETICIA VASQUEZ 1r«-n  Legislative Water Advisor 1 DU ^ LJ	
WATER REPLENISHMENT DISTRICT OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA		
Member, Board of Directors, Division 5 Vote for One	ALBERT ROBLES  Director, Water Replenishment Dist. of Southern California 1 0*	
	RALPH M. HELM -ICO—.rA  Real Estate Broker IOu"*LJ	
	STEVE CASTELLANOS 4 r A —, rv  Public Works Director | OH LJ	
	LINDA UNRUH-FUENTES 1t-r n  Senior Advocacy Attorney 100 ^	

END OF BALLOT

06-067E

N LA 400-008

EXHIBIT B

“CLASSROOM REPAIR. STUDENT SAFETY MEASURE. To make essential
health/safety repairs, retain teachers, qualify for matching grants, shall Long
Beach Unified School District retrofit schools for earthquake safety/handicap
accessibility, repair restrooms/plumbing/roofs/fire safety, remove lead
paint/asbestos, upgrade vocational ciassrooms/technology/energy efficiency,
expand after-school programs, reduce overcrowding, by acquiring, repairing,
constructing, equipping sites, facilities, joint-use buildings, and issuing
$1,200,000,000 in bonds at legal rates with independent audits, citizen’s
oversight, and no money for administrators’ salaries?”

PRIORITY SCHOOL PROJECT LISTS

The Board of Education of the Long Beach Unified School District evaluated
the District’s urgent and critical school needs, including school and student safety
issues, enrollment trends, class size, high school overcrowding, energy efficiency
and computer technology, seismic safety requirements, and aging, outdated or
deteriorating school buildings in developing the scope of projects to be funded,
as outlined in the Long Beach Unified School District Facility Master (School
Safety and Improvement) Plan (www.lbschools.net) recommended by the
Community Advisory Committee and approved by the Board of Education on
January 22, 2008, incorporated herein, and as shall be further amended from
time to time. In developing the scope of projects, hundreds of parents, teachers,
staff, students and community members have prioritized the key health and
safety and sustainability needs so that the most critical school site needs are
addressed. The Board conducted a thorough evaluation at all school sites and
received public input and review in developing the scope of school projects to be
funded, as listed in the Facility Master (School Safety and Improvement) Plan.
This input concluded that if these needs were not addressed now, the problem
would only get worse and more expensive to address in the future. In approving
this Priority School Projects List, the Board of Education determines that:

(i)	all of its schools must be healthy and safe from earthquake risks,
hazardous materials such as asbestos, mold and fire dangers; and

(ii)	in repairing aging schools, priority shall be given to basic repairs, such as
leaky roofs, plumbing, electrical and utility systems; and

(iii)	all of its schools should be safe learning environments, free from gang or
drug influence; and

(iv)	among the communities that constitute the District, including Long Beach,
Signal Hill, Lakewood and Catalina Island, the District must allocate
proceeds of the Bonds so that each community obtains its fair share of the
benefits of any bond money; and

(Continued on next page)

PR-900478-1

N LA 400-025

(v)	the District must manage class size by repairing existing classrooms and
building new classrooms, particularly so that students can improve their
academic performance, job training skills and the District can have
smaller high schools; and

(vi)	the District must install and upgrade fire detection systems, security and
emergency response systems at every school so that all students are safe, as
well as make repairs in compliance with energy saving and sustainability
standards; and

(vii)	that, when advisable, bond projects should be managed by a professional
program/construetion management firm with a proven track record of
delivering school construction projects on-time and on-budget; and

(viii)	the District must aggressively apply for State matching funds and spend
any local bond money exclusively on schools and facilities within the
District and shall not allow bond monies to be transferred to the State.

The Facility Master Plan is on file at the District Office of Facility Development
and Planning and includes the following types of projects:

School Renovation. Repair and Upgrade Projects

Goal and Purpose: Schools will benefit from the renovation, repair and upgrade
of deteriorating, outdated school buildings, science labs, classrooms, computer
learning centers and school libraries and equipment, allowing all children have
the resources they need to learn and excel:

-	Repair, upgrade and replace worn-out leaking roofs.

-Replace existing wiring systems to meet current electrical and accessibility
codes and increased capacity.

-	Additional electrical service capacity to relieve currently overloaded electrical
systems.

-Replace existing water, sewer and plumbing systems to meet current codes,
including the elimination of lead-containing fixtures.

-	Upgrade aging and deteriorating school restrooms.

-Replace older ceilings, heating, ventilation, air conditioning and lighting
systems with building code compliant, energy efficient systems.

-	Install code-compliant ventilating systems in restrooms.

-	Provide improved, upgraded computer labs.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900478-2

N LA 400-026

FULL TEXT OF BALLQTdVlEASUREK (Continued)=	-=

-	Upgrade and equip classrooms, science labs, multipurpose rooms, physical
education facilities, kitchens, auditoriums, libraries, arts and music rooms,
childcare, preschool, adult education and educational support spaces.

-	Classroom interiors will receive new paint, carpet/vinyl tile/asbestos abatement,
white markerboards, tackable surfaces, storage-for instructional materials and
equipment.

-	Federal and State-mandated Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
accessibility upgrades including site access, parking, staff and student
restrooms, relocation of some existing electrical devices, drinking fountains,
playground equipment, etc.

-	Replace old, portable classrooms.

-	Repair aging schools.

School Health and Safety, Earthquake Safety
and Energy Efficiency School Projects

Goal and Purpose: To ensure that the learning process is not interrupted by

gangs and drugs or juvenile crime and to help attract and retain excellent

teachers, schools and school sites will benefit from a variety of health and safety

projects, such as:

-	Remove or abate asbestos, lead paint, mold and hazardous materials.

-	Fire alarm systems upgraded to automatic systems, repair fire safety
equipment, add sprinklers and fire safety doors.

-	Upgrade to schools to meet handicap accessibility requirements.

-	Inspect for/repair gas pipe leaks.

-	Replace/upgrade existing signage, bells and clocks.

-	Install/replace/upgrade security fencing.

-	Replace/upgrade existing security and irrigation systems.

-	Install energy efficient systems.

-	Replace existing window systems with energy efficient systems.

-Install new security systems, such as security (surveillance) cameras, outdoor
lighting, fencing, gates and classroom door locks.

-	Upgrade emergency communication systems.

-Upgrade site playground equipment replacement to meet current safety

standards.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900478-3

N LA 400-027

-Relocate or improve student drop-off areas for safety, including a separate area
for buses.

-	Inspect and improve play area fields for safety and drainage.

-	Replace existing doors, doorframes and ceilings.

-	Add emergency exits for faster evacuation in an emergency.

-	Upgrade school site parking, utilities and grounds.

-	Repair termite damage to structures and doors/doorframes.

-	Strengthen and repair schools and classrooms vulnerable to serious damage in
a major earthquake, as required by State law.

District-Wide Wiring and Instructional Technology
For Effective Learning Environment Projects

Goal and Purpose: To improve both current instruction methods and to expand
job training programs by applying modern technology infrastructure:

-Provide and maintain upgraded technology, data and communication
equipment.

-Upgrade and expand wireless systems, telecommunications, Internet and
network connections.

-	Upgrade and replace computers, hardware and software systems.

-	Upgrade and replace classroom furniture, equipment and instructional aids.

-	Upgrade media and audiovisual equipment.

Classroom Improvements to Enhance Job Training

Goal and Purpose: To increase opportunities for career training and technical
and job training, as well as to establish after school programs that keep kids off
the street and out of trouble:

-	Establish small career high schools focused on training students for jobs in
health, engineering and other professions.

-	Remodel and improve existing childcare and after-school recreation facilities.

-	Upgrade technology and equipment used in job training programs.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900478-4

N LA 400-028

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE * (Continued)

New Construction Education Enhancement/Class Size
Reduction Projects at School Sites

Goal and Purpose: To reduce the severe and unsafe overcrowding at
neighborhood high schools and to reduce the risk of violence and injury in the
event of emergency evacuation, some schools would benefit from the
construction and expansion of additional earthquake and accessibility code
compliant facilities, such as:

-Multi-Purpose rooms, including the cafeteria, serving kitchen, staff and
student bathrooms, storage, educational support spaces, and classrooms.

-New classrooms/classroom buildings, which will reduce dependency on
portable classrooms.

-Lunch shelters, playground equipment and playground storage for outdoor
activities.

-	ADA accessibility upgrades as mandated by the Division of the State Architect
(DSA).

-	Additional electrical service capacity.

-	Additional staff and student restrooms.

-	Additional staff, visitor and student parking/drop-off areas.

Listed building, repair and rehabilitation projects and upgrades will be
completed as needed. Each project is assumed to include its share of furniture,
equipment, architectural, engineering, and similar planning costs,
program/project management, staff training expenses and a customary
contingency for unforeseen design and construction costs. In addition to the
listed repair and construction projects stated above, the Priority School Project
Lists and Facility Master Plan, also include the acquisition of a variety of
instructional, maintenance and operational equipment, including school buses,
the reduction or retirement of outstanding lease or capital facility note
obligations, or the reimbursement of the District for such reduction, the
construction of new schools, if necessary to serve students, the acquisition of
land, the remodeling of administrative support spaces, installation of signage and
fencing, the payment of the costs of preparation of all facility planning, facility
assessment reviews, facility master plan updates, environmental studies
(including environmental investigation, remediation and monitoring) and
construction documentation, the acquisition of outstanding ground leases,
temporary housing of dislocated District activities caused by bond
projects and the leasing or acquisition of a transportation lot for school buses.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900478-5

N LA 400-029

The allocation of bond proceeds will be affected by the District’s receipt of State
matching funds and the final costs of each project. In the absence of State
matching funds, which the District will aggressively pursue to reduce the
District’s share of the costs of the projects, the District will not be able to
complete some of the projects listed above. Certain projects may be undertaken
as joint use projects in cooperation with other local public or non-profit agencies.
Possible Joint-use type projects could include any of the following at various
school sites identified in the Facility Master Plan: gymnasiums, natatoriums,
libraries, multi-purpose rooms, media centers/or labs, health clinics, parking, art
and athletic facilities, assembly rooms, science labs, career technical facilities,
classrooms, computer or technical labs, community meeting facilities,
energy-efficient, renewable and/or sustainable facility projects. The budget for
each project is an estimate and may be affected by factors beyond the District’s
control. The final cost of each project will be determined as plans are finalized,
construction bids are awarded and projects are completed. Based on the final
costs of each project, certain projects described above may be delayed or may not
be completed. Demolition of existing facilities and reconstruction of facilities
scheduled for repair and upgrade may occur, if the Board determines that such
an approach would be more cost-effective in creating more enhanced and
operationally efficient campuses. Necessary site preparation/restoration may
occur in connection with new construction, renovation or remodeling, or
installation or removal of relocatable classrooms, including ingress and egress,
removing, replacing, or installing irrigation, utility lines, trees and landscaping,
relocating fire access roads, and acquiring any necessary easements, licenses, or
rights of way to the property. Proceeds of the bonds may be used to pay or
reimburse the District for the cost of District staff when performing work on or
necessary and incidental to bond projects. Bond proceeds shall only be expended
for the specific purposes identified herein. The District shall create an account
into which proceeds of the bonds shall be deposited and comply with the
reporting requirements of Government Code § 53410.

PROJECT CONSTRUCTION ACCOUNTABILITY AND SAFEGUARDS.
APPROPRIATE PROJECTS PAID FOR WITH BOND MONEY
WILL BE SUBJECT TO OVERSIGHT OF A PROFESSIONAL
CONSTRUCTION/PROGRAM MANAGEMENT FIRM WITH A PROVEN
TRACK RECORD OF DELIVERING SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
ON-TIME AND ON-BUDGET TO SAVE TAXPAYER DOLLARS.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900478-6

N LA 400-030

™	FUI± TEXT OF BALLOT MEASOTE f^t^ntlnded^ ——

NO ADMINISTRATOR SALARIES. PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF
THE BONDS AUTHORIZED BY THIS PROPOSITION SHALL BE
USED ONLY FOR THE ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION,
RECONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION, OR REPLACEMENT OF
SCHOOL FACILITIES, INCLUDING THE FURNISHING AND
EQUIPPING OF SCHOOL FACILITIES, AND NOT FOR ANY OTHER
PURPOSE, INCLUDING TEACHER AND SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR
SALARIES AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES.

FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY. THE EXPENDITURE OF BOND MONEY ON
THESE PROJECTS IS SUBJECT TO STRINGENT FINANCIAL
ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS. BY LAW, PERFORMANCE AND
FINANCIAL AUDITS WILL BE PERFORMED ANNUALLY, AND ALL BOND
EXPENDITURES WILL BE MONITORED BY AN INDEPENDENT
CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE TO ENSURE THAT FUNDS ARE
SPENT AS PROMISED AND SPECIFIED. THE CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT
COMMITTEE MUST INCLUDE, AMONG OTHERS, REPRESENTATION OF
A BONA FIDE TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION, A BUSINESS ORGANIZATION
AND A SENIOR CITIZENS ORGANIZATION. NO DISTRICT EMPLOYEES
OR VENDORS ARE ALLOWED TO SERVE ON THE CITIZENS’
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.

PR-900478-7

N LA 400-031

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURED

By Raymond G. Fortner, Jr., County Counsel

Approval of Measure K would authorize the Long Beach Unified School District
(“District”) to issue general obligation bonds, in an amount not to exceed
$1,200,000,000.

Funds received from the sale of the bonds shall be used for the specific purposes
set forth in this Measure including, earthquake and handicap retrofitting;
repairing restrooms, plumbing, roofs, and fire safety systems; removing lead
paints and asbestos; upgrading vocational classrooms, technology/energy
efficiency; expanding supervised after-school programs; and acquiring, repairing,
constructing, equipping sites, facilities and joint-use buildings. No funds may be
used for teacher and administrator salaries or any other school operating
expenses.

Independent performance and financial audits will be performed annually to
ensure that funds received from the sale of the bonds are expended as specified
by the Measure. All bond expenditures will be monitored by a Citizens’
Oversight Committee to ensure that funds are spent as specified.

The bonds would be issued for a term not to exceed twenty-five (25) years in the
case of bonds issued under the authority of the Education Code, and forty (40)
years in the case of bonds issued under the authority of the Government Code.
The tax levied as a result of approval of this Measure shall not exceed the
Proposition 39 limits per $100,000 of taxable property within the District. By
issuing the bonds the District may be eligible to receive matching funds. The
bonds would be issued at an interest rate that does not exceed the legal
maximum rate.

This Measure requires a fifty-five percent (55%) vote for passage.

NOTICE TO VOTERS

Approval of Measure K does not guarantee that the proposed project or projects
in the Long Beach Unified School District that are the subject of bonds under
Measure K will be funded beyond the local revenues generated by Measure K.
The school district’s proposal for the project or projects may assume the receipt
of matching state funds, which could be subject to appropriation by the
Legislature or approval of a statewide bond measure.

Pft-900478-8

N LA 400-032

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Yes on K improves neighborhood schools serving Long Beach, Lakewood, Signal
Hill, Avalon and Santa Catalina and makes them safer.

Our high schools house 4,000+ students per high school campus — some of the
largest in the state. Severely OVERCROWDED SCHOOLS INCREASE THE
POTENTIAL FOR VIOLENCE and are harder to evacuate in an emergency or
natural disaster such as an earthquake. And more than 28,000 students attend
class every day in outdated, deteriorating portables.

Yes on K builds more energy-efficient classrooms and buildings, ensuring that
our students learn in quality classrooms and we have the teaching environments
we need to continue to attract and RETAIN EXCELLENT TEACHERS. Yes on
K funds basic upgrades to our local schools, such as fixing deteriorating
bathrooms and plumbing, repairing roofs, and removing lead paint and asbestos
from classrooms.

Yes on K expands the after-school programs that keep kids off the street, out of
trouble, and GANG and DRUG-FREE.

Yes on K addresses handicap accessibility requirements.

Yes on K upgrades and expands instructional technology, such as computer
hardware and network infrastructure.

Yes on K retrofits schools vulnerable to serious damage in a major earthquake.
Yes on K expands career education and job training programs, ensuring that
local students, who are not college bound, have access to good jobs in a tough

economy.

Yes on K’s strong fiscal accountability requirements include hiring an
independent, professional construction management firm with a proven track
record of delivering school construction projects on-time and on-budget,
SAVING TAXPAYER DOLLARS.

Yes on K payments are tax deductible and require:

independent citizens’ oversight

annual financial audits

NO money for administrators’ salaries.

Yes on K qualifies our schools for millions of state dollars that would otherwise

go to other schools.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900478-9

N LA 400-033

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K (Continued)

Join police officers, firefighters, paramedics, parents and teachers - vote
Yes on K.

MINNIE DOUGLAS, Ed.D.

Professor Emeritus - LBCC

JAMES CHOURA

Businessman/Former LBUSD Board Member

CHARLENE S. EBRIGHT
Community Volunteer

WILLIAM S. BACA
Parent

DEDE ROSSI

Retired CSULB Administrator

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-900478-10

N LA 400-034

STATEMENT IN COMPLIANCE - MEASURE K

To: The voters voting in the November 4, 2008 election on the question of the
issuance of $1,200,000,000 General Obligation Bonds of the Long Beach Unified
School District.

You are hereby notified in accordance with the Elections Code of the State of
California of the following:

1.	The best estimate from official sources of the tax rate which would be
required to be levied to fund principal and interest payments during the first
fiscal year after the first sale of bonds (Fiscal Year 2009-2010), based on assessed
valuations available at the time of the election and taking into account estimated
future growth, is the following:

$.06000 per $100 of assessed valuation.

2.	The best estimate from official sources of the tax rate which would be
required to be levied to fund principal and interest payments during the first
fiscal year after the last sale of bonds and an estimate of the year in which that
rate will apply, based on assessed valuations available at the time of the election
and taking into account estimated future growth, is as follows:

$.06000 per $100 of assessed valuation.

First fiscal year after last sale of bonds: 2019-2020

3.	The best estimate from official sources of the highest tax rate which would be
required to be levied to fund principal and interest payments on the bonds and
an estimate of the year in which that rate will apply, based on assessed valuations
available at the time of the election and taking into account estimated future

growth, is as follows:

$.06000 per $100 of assessed valuation.

Year of highest tax rate: Tax is projected to be the same every year.

Submittal of the foregoing statement has been approved by the Long Beach
Unified School District.

KIM STALLINGS

Chief Business and Financial Officer

PR-90047801

N LA 400-035