

70

IS)

[\l

D

03

m

*

oc

LU

d o

tl

X 5

h- o
u. I-

O O
UJ LU IE
O u{ =

o

o

co

4 O

co 8

t]o

LU CO

P3

CO 111
N O
1U Z
OC <
£ co
< o
x -1
w
m
m

tn

pj

“0

I "I t

<0 S (B 3

A o o

Si g-8

£ a>

3 S,

C «

c

CO 3 ^

o o 0)
>» o

O H- 0) -1
c o> ®

” ffl £

ts?i

°|l;
3=o
.S o o '—

co — £ <o
■p	o

g o>*j o ^
3 .E o — a>

| 5 8 i
sSfl|8

2 Q> „2>	©

Q. O- Q. Ol tt

£ « | ■£ L

§.2 S3 e

3 Q. IS

(A <0	•

.<2 <g 4- £ o>

i— £ c 3 x

S

o



INTEF http://cityclerk.lacity.org/election/

q\TY CLEfj/f

^^Cr/QN dN\^°^

★★★★★★★★★★★★★

VOTER

INFORMATION

PAMPHLET

★★★★★★★★★★★★★

COMPILED BY KAREN E. KALFAYAN, CITY CLERK

★ SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ★
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2008

Los Angeles City Measure Information: 1-888-873-1000

Under Federal law, voter information pamphlets are
available in English as well as in the following languages:

Para information sobre las iniciativas de ley de la
Ciudad de Los Angeles incluidas en este folleto,
por favor Name al 1 -888-873-1000

Para sa impormasyon tungkol sa mga panukala ng
Lunsod ng Los Angeles na nakalagay sa pamplet na ito,
tumawag sa 1-888-873-1000

£	Los	Angeles	*1

tfl3r 3Jife- 1-888-873-1000AS

Muon bi§t chi tiet ve nhumg dir luat cua
Thanh Pho Los Angeles dang trong tap sach nay,
xin goi so 1-888-873-1000

Angelesr^fi^Ifl ’
-888-873-1000

i^nyy Vv h $ frT y § Los Angelesrff
\zmiTZ> M «1 -888-873-1000 \Z

^3< Tz $

This pamphlet contains only information on ballot
measures pertaining to the City of Los Angeles. It is
not a sample ballot. You will receive your sample
ballot with polling place location from the Los
Angeles County Registrar-Recorder.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

BALLOT SUMMARY .......................... 3

BALLOT MEASURES, ARGUMENTS, AND TEXT

City of Los Angeles Proposition A   . 5

City of Los Angeles Proposition B .... 20

VOTER INFORMATION

The County of Los Angeles is conducting the November 4, 2008

General Election.

For information concerning the election, such as polling place loca-
tions, please contact the County Registrar-Recorder at (800) 815-2666
or visit their website at www.lavote.net.

Audio Cassette Recordings (City Measures) (213) 978-0444

•	Braille Institute Library	(323)	660-3880

(800) 808-2555

•	Central Library	630	W.	5th	Street,	Los	Angeles,	CA 90071

Cassette recordings of the City measures included in this voter infor-
mation pamphlet are available in English, Spanish, Chinese,
Japanese, Korean, Tagalog or Vietnamese.

FP-01-1

1

N LC 001-001

The next 2 pages contain simplified versions of the City
ballot measures. The full text of the measures, along with
other information, is printed after the Ballot Summary (see
TABLE OF CONTENTS).

FP-05-1

2

N LC 001-002

CITY OF LOS ANGELES PROPOSITION A

TITLE:

CITY OF LOS ANGELES SPECIAL GANG AND YOUTH VIOLENCE
PREVENTION, AFTER-SCHOOL AND JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS TAX
PROPOSITION A

THE ISSUE:

To address gang violence through prevention and job training programs;
preventing students from dropping out of school; funding supervised after-
school programs, tutoring/mentoring, vocational/apprenticeship programs,
expanded graffiti removal; requiring Controller audits, citizen oversight;
funding proven programs; shall the City of Los Angeles levy an annual $36
gang prevention tax, with discounts for low-income seniors, on each real
property parcel?

THE SITUATION:

The Los Angeles Police Department estimates there are 400 gangs and 38,000
gang members within the City of Los Angeles. Gang violence results in loss
;pf life and negatively affects living conditions in many parts of the City.

Some of the causes of the growth of gang violence across the City are the lack
of job and training opportunities and other healthy productive options for
youth. Currently, the City cannot adequately fund programs and activities that
help young people develop employment skills and provide positive alternatives
to gangs that are necessary to end gang violence.

THE PROPOSAL:

The City would levy an annual $36 special tax on each real property parcel to
fund gang prevention, intervention, after-school and job training programs.
These funds would be placed in a new Special Tax Fund to be used only for
the specific purposes stated in the measure. Purposes include programs and
activities that are proven to be successful to address gang violence as well as
evaluations and audits to ensure that funds are used effectively.

A YES VOTE MEANS:

You want to allow the City to levy an annual $36 special tax on each real
property parcel for programs that address gang violence.

A NO VOTE MEANS:

You do not want to allow the City to levy an annual $36 special tax on each
real property parcel for programs that address gang violence.

THE FULL TEXT OF THIS MEASURE BEGINS ON PAGE 13.

PR-1000-1

3

N LC 001-003

CITY OF LOS ANGELES PROPOSITION B

TITLE:

UPDATE OF LOW RENT HOUSING AUTHORIZATION
PROPOSITION B

THE ISSUE:

Shall existing voter-approved authorization for low rent housing be revised to
remove impediments to federal and state funding and requirements not
compatible with current housing needs, and authorize the development,
construction or acquisition of low rent housing by public entities in the City of
Los Angeles, maintaining the previously authorized voter-approved level of
3,500 units per Council District, subject to availability of funding and all City
development requirements?

THE SITUATION:

There is a great need in the City of Los Angeles for affordable housing for low
income households.

The State Constitution requires voter approval to authorize the City to provide
public assistance for the development, construction or acquisition of certain
categories of low rent (affordable) housing.

‘

City voters approved five propositions between 1973 and 1980 that provided
authority for the City to support up to 3,500 units of affordable housing in each
of the 15 City Council Districts.

The current authority contains conditions that limit the City’s ability to access
State and Federal funding, and are incompatible with modern housing
development needs, making it difficult for the City to increase the supply of
voter-approved affordable housing.

THE PROPOSAL:

Current authority would be revised to meet today’s funding requirements and
housing needs. The City would continue to be able" to develop up to the 3,500
authorized units of affordable housing per Council District, less the number
already developed as of November 4, 2008. Assistance for authorized units
would be subject to availability of funding and all City development
requirements.

A YES VOTE MEANS:

You want to revise City authority to continue to assist the development,
construction or acquisition of certain categories of affordable housing and
meet State requirements.

A NO VOTE MEANS:

You do not want to revise City authority to continue to assist the development,
construction or acquisition of certain categories of affordable housing and
meet State requirements.

THE FULL TEXT OF THIS MEASURE BEGINS ON PAGE 28.

PR-1000-2	4	NLC	001-004

CITY OF LOS ANGELES SPECIAL GANG AND YOUTH
VIOLENCE PREVENTION, AFTER-SCHOOL AND JOB TRAINING
PROGRAMS TAX. PROPOSITION A.

To address gang violence through prevention and job training programs;
preventing students from dropping out of school; funding supervised after-
school programs, tutoring/mentoring, vocational/apprenticeship programs,
expanded graffiti removal; requiring Controller audits, citizen oversight;
funding proven programs; shall the City of Los Angeles levy an annual $36
gang prevention tax, with discounts for low-income seniors, on each real
property parcel?

IMPARTIAL SUMMARY
BY GERRY F. MILLER, CHIEF LEGISLATIVE ANALYST

This measure would fund programs to address gang violence through gang
prevention and job training programs; programs to prevent students from
dropping out of school; supervised after-school, tutoring/mentoring and
vocational/apprenticeship programs; and expanded graffiti removal. It would
authorize the City to levy an annual $36 special tax on each real property parcel
and allow for a reduced Low Income Rate for qualifying low-income property
owners and Lifeline Rate for low-income senior and disabled property owners.

Proceeds from the special tax would be deposited into a special fund in the
City treasury to be overseen by the City Council, the Mayor and a Citizens
Advisory Oversight Committee. Special tax revenue must be used only for the
stated purposes and funding commitments will require Mayor and Council
approval.

This measure would require the Mayor and City Council to establish an
Expenditure Plan by Ordinance, which shall include procedures for the
selection and funding of eligible programs. The Expenditure Plan shall include
provisions that would: establish evaluation procedures and require Controller
audits for programs receiving these funds; require community-based public
input; and ensure funds are expended Citywide based on measurable statistics
demonstrating need.

Funds may only be spent for the following purposes:

A.	Apprenticeship and employment training programs for at-risk and gang-
involved youth;

B.	After-school and community-based programs to provide youth with
alternatives to gang involvement;

C.	Programs designed to keep students from dropping out of school;

PR-8000-1	5	NLC	001-005

D.	Community-based gang intervention and re-entry programs that are
designed to reduce violence by providing services to gang-involved
youth and families and to those rejoining their communities;

E.	Programs that provide safe passage to students to and from school in
high-crime and gang-impacted areas;

F.	Expanded tutoring, mentoring and homework assistance programs;

G.	Grants to local community-based organizations that have been proven
to operate effective gang prevention and intervention programs;

H.	New and expanded hours at schools and recreation centers, including
late-night, summer and weekend programming; and

I.	Annual performance and fiscal audits by the City Controller.

This measure establishes a “Maintenance of Effort” requirement, which would
prohibit the City from utilizing proceeds from the special tax to reduce the level
of other City funding currently allocated for the stated purposes of the special
tax. The Maintenance of Effort level may only be adjusted if the State or Federal
governments reduce grant funds currently available for these purposes.

This measure would require the City Controller to prepare annual performance
and fiscal audits to ensure that programs funded with proceeds from the
special tax accomplish the stated purposes. The performance audits will
assess the effectiveness of programs in achieving their stated goals based on
measurable outcomes, such as the ability of programs to reduce risk factors
for joining gangs and their long-term impacts on program participants. The City
will certify programs as effective based on the results of Controller audits and
additional evaluation efforts. Only certified successful programs will be eligible
for ongoing funding from the special tax.

The City Administrative Officer will annually report on the amount of special
tax proceeds collected and expended and the status of all programs funded
with such tax proceeds.

This measure will become effective with a two-thirds vote.

FINANCIAL IMPACT STATEMENT
BY RAYMOND P. CIRANNA, INTERIM CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

This measure would establish a permanent special tax of $36.00 on each
parcel of real property in the City of Los Angeles, except for parcels exempt
by law. This tax rate could be reduced in any year and a discount of up to 50
percent could also be established for low-income property owners and for
senior citizen and disabled citizen property owners.

Beginning in fiscal year 2009-10, the measure would generate approximately
$28 million annually which must be deposited into a special fund and used only
for additional gang violence prevention and related programs. Revenue could
grow beyond $28 million in future years as new parcels are added to the tax
roll. Revenue would be reduced if a tax rate lower than $36.00 is established
in any year or as a result of any discounts for qualifying low-income property
owners, or for senior citizen or disabled citizen property owners.

PR-8000-2	6

N LC 001-006

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION-A

Police Chief William Bratton, Sheriff Lee Baca and over 9,000 L.A. police

officers agree: Proposition A will prevent and reduce gang crime.by ensuring

ail students in L.A. have opportunities to participate in safe after school, job

training, apprenticeship and mentoring programs.

•

Today, there are 40,000 gang members and more than 400 gangs in Los
Angeles. To survive and expand, L.A. street gangs regularly recruit very young
children who are only in the 4th and 5th grades.

Proposition A will protect children and neighborhoods throughout Los Angeles
by taking kids off the streets and keeping them away from gangs, guns, and
drugs.

•	A is for AFTER SCHOOL & ACADEMICS

A YES vote on Proposition A provides every child in Los Angeles access to
safe and supervised after school tutoring, reading, writing and math labs,
as well as discipline and personal responsibility programs which will keep
kids safe, boost academic achievement, and increase graduation rates.

•	A is for APPRENTICESHIPS & JOB TRAINING

A Yes vote on Proposition A provides high school students and young adults
job training, business mentoring, and apprenticeship opportunities to
develop workforce skills and get good paying jobs.

•	A is for ACHIEVEMENT

A YES vote on Proposition A provides funding ONLY to programs with a
proven track record of achievement in gang prevention such as the
nationally acclaimed LA’s Best After School Program, LA Conservation Corp
and Boys and Girls Clubs just to mention a few.

•	A is for ACCOUNTABILITY & AUDITS

A YES vote on Proposition A requires an annual City Controller audit and
review by a Citizen’s Oversight Committee to ensure accountability as well
as effective and efficient use of funds.

Please join us in voting YES on Proposition A!

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not checked for
accuracy by any City agency.

PR-8000-3

7

N LC 001-007

PERSONS SIGNING ARGUMENT
IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

WILLIAM BRATTON
Chief

Los Angeles Police Department

LEE BACA
Sheriff

Los Angeles County
EARVIN “MAGIC” JOHNSON

REVEREND JEFF CARR
Director of Gang Reduction and
Youth Development
City of Los Angeles

STEVE TUFTS
President

United Firefighters of Los Angeles
City

CARLA SANGER
President

LA’s BEST After School Programs

DOUGLAS BARRY
Chief

Los Angeles Fire Department

RICHARD J. RIORDAN
Former Mayor
City of Los Angeles

CHARLENE LOVETT

Mother of 14 year-old murder victim

Cheryl Green

Mothers Against Gang Violence

CYNTHIA MCCLAIN-HILL
President

National Association of Women
Business Owners

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

City Controller Laura Chick studied the city’s anti-gang programs and found
the problem is not a lack of money, but a lack of management:

“The City’s current approach ... is an uncoordinated and scattered mix of
. . . programs provided at a reported cost of $160 million. . . . However, little
coordination and communication exists amohgst these city departments,
which has resulted in some departments unknowingly providing services
similar and likely overlapping with those delivered by other departments.”

The controller concluded solving the problem “will not require additional
funding, but will require redirecting existing funds to more targeted programs,
eliminating duplication and streamlining programs, and implementing
performance-based contracting and monitoring practices.”

We don’t need higher taxes. We just need City Hall to do its job, and manage
these programs. Vote “no” on this unnecessary tax hike. No on
Proposition A.

Learn more at GangTax.com.

PERSONS SIGNING REBUTTAL TO THE
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

JON COUPAL
President

Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association

RICHARD H. CLOSE
President

Sherman Oaks Homeowners Association

ERNEST DYNDA
President

United Organization of Taxpayers

WALTER MOORE

Attorney and Real Estate Broker

JOHN SUTTIE
CFO

Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not checked for
accuracy by any City agency.

PR-8000-5

9

N LC 001-009

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

LA gangs and LA trash have a lot in common.

Two years ago the city nearly tripled the trash bill saying the money was
needed to hire more police. The mayor said, “every dollar residents pay for
trash pickup will be used to put more officers on the streets.”

Were we foolish to believe that additional police officers would be used to make
our community safer by suppressing gang activity?

Now we are told by City Hall that to fight gangs we must raise taxes even after
the city raised the trash bill again in August, again supposedly for more police.

But let’s loOk at how the additional trash money already collected was actually
used. According to an audit by City Controller Laura Chick, barely a third of
the $137 million in new trash fees went to hire police officers. The rest was used
for other purposes.

Now we are forced to pay even more for trash pickup and are being asked
to approve higher taxes. Higher taxes on top of the new broadened telephone
tax approved in February, higher taxes on top of the higher utility rates imposed
by the city owned DWP. Los Angeles residents already pay one of the highest
utility user taxes in the state.

This latest tax increase may not seem like a big deal to our highly paid City
Council members, but to most residents struggling to pay more for gas and
food and to hold on to their homes and jobs, this is asking too much.

We deserve to see better use of the tremendous revenues we already supply
to City Hall and its $7 billion budget. We want city officials to live up to the
promises they have already made. Vote no on Proposition A.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not checked for
accuracy by any City agency.

10

N LC 001-010

PERSONS SIGNING ARGUMENT
AGAINST PROPOSITION A

JON COUPAL
President

Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association

RICHARD H. CLOSE
President

Sherman Oaks Homeowners Association

ERNEST DYNDA
President

United Organization of Taxpayers

WALTER MOORE

Attorney and Real Estate Broker

JOHN SUTTIE
CFO

Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association

PR-8000-7

11

• I

N LC 001-011

i

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Cheryl Green was only 14 years old and one block from her home when a gang
member murdered her. It wa&3pm after school.

Beyond the tragedy and loss of innocent children like Cheryl, here are the
economic facts opponents ignore:

•	Every gang murder costs taxpayers $1.67 million.

•	It costs $218,000/year to incarcerate a juvenile.

•	It costs only $150/month to provide a child with after school opportunities.

•	Less than 15% of L.A.’s kids have access to programs after school.

PROPOSITION A gives every student access to outstanding after school, job
training and apprenticeship programs.

By law, every penny of the $3 per month investment must go ONLY to existing,
high-performing programs requiring annual Controller audits and citizen
oversight. Senior citizens and low-income residents exempt.

PROPOSITION A won’t bring loved ones back, but it will go a long way toward
preventing more tragic loss of life. Vote YES.

PERSONS SIGNING REBUTTAL TO THE
ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

WILLIAM J. BRATTON
Chief

Los Angeles Police Department

LEE BACA
Sheriff

Los Angeles County

TIM SANDS
President

Los Angeles Police Protective
League

DOUGLAS L. SEMARK
Executive Director
Gang Alternatives Program

JANICE HAHN
Councilwoman
City of Los Angeles

CARLA SANGER
President

LA’s BEST After School Programs

REVEREND JEFF CARR
Director of Gang Reduction and
Youth Development
City of Los Angeles

BRUCE SAITO

Executive Director

Los Angeles Conservation Corps

CYNTHIA MCCLAIN-HILL
President

National Association of Women
Business Owners

MIKE LANSING

Executive Director

Boys and Girls Club of Loa Angeles

Harbor

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not checked for
accuracy by any City agency.

N LC 001-012

PROPOSITION A

An ordinance amending Chapter II of the Los Angeles Municipal Code by
adding a new Article 1.18 to provide funding for gang prevention, intervention,
job training and after-school programs through the imposition of a gang
prevention parcel tax on all properties in the City.

WHEREAS, all residents of the City of Los Angeles deserve communities
that are free from intimidation and violence; and

WHEREAS, gang violence results in senseless loss of life and intolerable
living conditions in many parts of our City; and

WHEREAS, the lack of job opportunities and training and healthy and
productive options for the City’s youth result in a sense of hopelessness and
despair, and are the root causes of the growth of gang violence; and

WHEREAS, the Los Angeles Police Department estimates there are
currently 400 gangs and 38,000 gang members within the City of Los Angeles;
and

WHEREAS, if the root causes of the gang culture are left unchecked, gangs
will continue to expand, increasingly more of our community members and
children will experience violence and intimidation in their daily lives, and
another generation of our youth will be abandoned to the cycle of violence and
hopelessness that affects all residents of the City of Los Angeles; and

WHEREAS, studies have shown, and the City Council concurs, that any
comprehensive anti-gang violence action plan must contain job training, gang
prevention and intervention and after school components which have been
shown to reduce truancy, help young people develop marketable skills and
provide young people with positive alternatives to gang involvement; and

WHEREAS, because of the competing demands for scarce resources, the
City of Los Angeles cannot adequately fund its gang prevention, intervention,
after school and job training programs without diverting funds from other
essential City services; and

WHEREAS, the Council of the City of Los Angeles (City Council) has
determined that the voters of the City of Los Angeles should have the
opportunity to decide whether they wish to finance an increase of gang
prevention, intervention, after school and job training programs, and
associated costs; and

WHEREAS, any funds raised as a result of voter approval would not in any
way supplant monies that the City currently spends on gang prevention and
intervention efforts;

PR-8000-9

13

N LC 001-013

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Article 1.18 is added to Chapter II of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code to read:

ARTICLE 1.18
SPECIAL GANG AND YOUTH VIOLENCE PREVENTION,
AFTER-SCHOOL AND JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS TAX

SEC. 21.18.1. DEFINITION.

As used in this article, a Parcel shall mean a unit of real property as shown
on the last equalized assessment roll of Los Angeles County.

SEC. 21.18.2. SPECIAL GANG AND YOUTH VIOLENCE PREVENTION,
AFTER-SCHOOL AND JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS TAX.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a Special Gang and Youth Violence Prevention,
After-School and Job Training Programs Tax (Special Tax) on each Parcel of
real property within the City of Los Angeles. The Special Tax shall be for each
fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year 2009-10.

(b)	This Special Tax is enacted under the authority of Los Angeles City
Charter Section 101, other authority of California Government Code Sections
53970-53979 and California Government Code Sections 50075-50077.7,
inclusive of Sections 50075.1,50075.3 and 50075.5 (the Local Agency Special
Tax and Bond Accountability Act).

SEC. 21.18.3. PURPOSE.

The purpose of this Special Tax is to fund gang prevention, intervention,
after-school and job training programs that demonstrate comprehensive,
neighborhood-based strategies to tailor prevention and intervention programs
to unique community needs as identified through community-based needs
assessments. Funding shall be used for:

(i)	apprenticeship programs with local businesses and industries to provide
job skills, employment training and work experience for at-risk and gang-
involved youth;

(ii)	after-school and community-based programs designed to'provide youth
with alternatives to gang involvement, opportunities to develop basic life skills
and experiences in neighborhood improvement projects such as cleanup of
graffiti;

(iii)	programs designed to keep students from dropping out of school;

(iv)	community-based gang intervention programs that reduce violence by
providing integrated services to gang-involved young people and families and
re-entry skills for those rejoining their communities;

(v)	Programs designed to ensure that students are provided with safe
passage to and from school in high crime and gang impacted areas;

PR-8000-10	1	4	NLC	001-014

(vi)	expansion of after school homework assistance and tutoring/mentoring
programs to improve math, reading and science skills;

(vii)	grants to certified local community based organizations with proven
track-records of successful gang intervention and prevention programs;

(viii)	establishing new and expanding hours, including late night hours, in
schools, recreation centers and community centers, including summer and
weekend programming, designed to reduce the numbers of unsupervised
youth and provide alternatives to gang involvement; and

(ix)	pursuant to Section 21.18.10, annual performance and fiscal audits,
semi-annual progress reports performed by the City Controller which look at
measurable outcomes of the overall program process and each of the
individual programs.

SEC. 21.18.4. EXPENDITURE PLAN; EXPENDITURES.

The Mayor shall develop and propose to the City Council, and the City
Council shall, by Ordinance, establish procedures for the selection and funding
of programs and activities eligible under this article (the Expenditure Plan). The
Expenditure Plan will remain in effect until amended by Ordinance. The
Expenditure Plan shall include at a minimum:

(i)	an evaluation model detailing the specific services and goals offered by
each program-which shall be evaluated based on measurable outcomes,
including but not limited to the ability of programs to successfully reduce risk-
factors for joining gangs and have long-term impacts on youth participating
in the programs;

(ii)	consistent with the City Charter, annual audits, semi-annual progress
reports and annual evaluations beyond contract compliance of programs
receiving grant funding, by the City Controller;

(iii)	provisions that only those programs certified as successful by the Mayor
and the Council, pursuant to Section 21.18.10(c), shall be eligible for future
grant funding;

(iv)	annual submission by the Office of Gang Reduction and Youth
Development (or such successor office having primary oversight of gang
prevention and intervention and after school program issues) of a strategic
plan for expenditures of funds in targeted areas, the locations of which shall
be determined by a community-based needs assessment and by analyzing
community data factors including, but not limited to: school attendance,
truancy and drop-out rates; school performance, levels of gang violence and
other violent crime, poverty levels, unemployment rates and numbers of youth
on parole or probation;

(v)	provisiorts for a collaborative, community-based process seeking input
from community groups, neighborhood councils, faith based groups, non-
profit organizations and other governmental agencies, including but not limited

PR-8000-11	15	NLC	001-015

I

to the Los Angeles Unified School District, the County Departments of Children
and Family Services, Mental Health, and Public Health, and other relevant
County and law enforcement entities;

(vi)	provisions (as shown in Sec. 21.18.4, iv) for distribution of funds
throughout the various neighborhoods of the City, including the San Fernando
Valley and other regions, based on measurable and objective historic and
current indicators of young people at-risk for joining a gang and gang activity;
and

(vii)	review of any funding recommendations by a Citizens Advisory
Oversight Committee, prior to the submission of funding recommendations to
the City Council;

The City Council, with the concurrence of the Mayor, shall approve all
expenditures from the Special Gang Prevention, Intervention, After-School and
Job Training Programs Tax Fund, subject to the purposes delineated in
Section 21.18.3 of the Ordinance, and provide authority to the administrative
department to implement the program.

SEC, 21.18.5. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.

Proceeds from the Special Tax may not be used to supplant the level of
funding previously committed for the programs to be funded with the Special
Tax (the Maintenance of Effort Requirement). For any fiscal year, the City may
only levy the Special Tax if the Maintenance of Effort Requirement has been
met; provided however, that the Maintenance of Effort Requirement shall be
reduced in direct amount for any loss of previously allocated state and/or
federal grant funding. For Fiscal Year 2008-09 approximately $24 million has
been budgeted for programs comparable in purpose to those which will be
funded with the Special Tax. The Maintenance of Effort Requirement shall be
defined as $24 million for Fiscal Year 2008-09 and shall adjust for each fiscal
year thereafter by the percentage change to the general fund.

SEC. 21.18.6. TAX RATE.

(a)	The tax imposed on each Parcel of real property shall be $36.00 dollars
per fiscal year.

(b)	The maximum tax rate established in Subsection (a) may be adjusted
annually, commencing with the fiscal year 2009-10, based on the formula set
forth in Subsection (c) below.

(c)	For any fiscal year, the City Council may, by ordinance, adjust the tax
rate below the maximum amount authorized by this section. This reduction
shall not prevent a subsequent levy of taxes for any succeeding fiscal year up
to the limits set forth in this section.

(d)	The tax rate established in Subsection (a) shall be adjusted for qualifying
low income property owners (the Low-Income Rate) and senior citizen and
disabled citizen property owners (the Lifeline Rate). The. Low Income Rate and
Lifeline Rate shall be established by ordinance and shall not exceed a discount
rate of 50% of the tax rate established in Subsections (a) through (c).

PR-8000-12	16	NLC 001-016

SEC. 21.18.7. EXEMPTIONS.

(a)	Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of that tax upon that person would be in violation of
either the Constitutions of the United States or the State of California.

(b)	The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon the federal
government, the state government, any state agency, or any local government
agency.

(c)	The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon a parcel of
property or improvement that is owned and used by an organization described
in Sections 501 (c); 501 (d) or 401 (a) of Title 26 of the United States Code. All
sections of the United States Code shall mean those sections as they exist on
the effective date of this article and as they may be amended thereafter.

SEC. 21.18.8. GANG AND YOUTH VIOLENCE PREVENTION,
AFTER-SCHOOL AND JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS SPECIAL TAX FUND.

(a)	There is hereby established a special fund in the City Treasury entitled
Gang and Youth Violence Prevention, After-School and Job Training Programs
Special Tax Fund (Special Tax Fund). The funds collected pursuant to this
article shall be placed in the Special Tax Fund to be used exclusively for the
purpose for which the tax is imposed, and for no other purpose. Funds
deposited in this Special tax Fund shall not be subject to reversion to the
Reserve Fund, established under Charter Section 302. Nothing in this section
shall prevent the use of these funds to reimburse the General Fund when
money is advanced from the General Fund to pay for the uses provided for
in this article. All interest earnings generated by funds on deposit in the Special
Tax Fund shall remain in the Special Tax Fund to be used only for the purpose
of the Special Tax Fund.

(b)	If at the end of any fiscal year, any unencumbered money raised by the
Special Tax remains, it may be used in a succeeding fiscal year for the
purposes stated in this article.

SEC. 21.18.9. CITIZENS ADVISORY OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.

There is hereby established a Citizens Advisory Oversight Committee, to
oversee and make recommendations to the Mayor and the City Council'on the
expenditure of revenues received under the provisions of this article and to
monitor the implementation and performance of programs and activities
funded by revenues received under the provisions of this article. All appointees
te the Committee shall have demonstrated expertise in one or more areas such
as child development, education, research and policy development related to
children and family services, social services, public health, mental health, gang
prevention, community-based gang intervention, neighborhood economic
development, juvenile justice or public safety. The Committee shall work with
the Mayor and the City Council in the establishment of definitions for each
program category.

PR-8000-13

17

N LC 001-017

The Committee shall be comprised of nine (9) members appointed as
follows: Four (4) members shall be appointed by the Mayor, one (1) from each
of the following regions of the City: the San Fernando Valley, South Los
Angeles/Harbor, West Los Angeles and East Los Angeles; three (3) members
shall be appointed by the President of the City Council, one (1) of these
appointees shall have accounting experience and one (1) shall represent the
City’s business community; one (1) member, who shall have demonstrated
experience with gang prevention and/or intervention services, shall be
appointed by the Chair of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gang Violence and Youth
Development or such successor City Council committee having primary
oversight of gang prevention and intervention and after school program issues;
and one (1) member shall be appointed by Chief of the Los Angeles Police
Department.

SEC. 21.18.10. ANNUAL AUDIT, PROGRAM EVALUATION AND
CERTIFICATION.

(a)	The City Controller shall prepare annual performance and fiscal audits
consistent with the City Charter. At least one percent (1.0%) of the annual
proceeds from the Special Tax may be used for the purposes of this Section
21.18.10.

(b)	Programs will be evaluated according to how effectively they accomplish
the purpose of this Special Tax, measured according to evaluation metrics
developed by the Mayor, City Council and the Citizen’s Advisory Committee,
which may include, as applicable to each program type: the number of young
people who exit gangs; improved school attendance and increased graduation
rates in each service zone; the degree of service integration; accessibility and
availability of services; and improved employment outcomes such as job
creation and increased employment rates in each service zone. The reports
from the City Controller pursuant to Section 21.18.10(a), shall be used during
the evaluation process.

(c)	Only programs which have been certified successful according to the
specific criteria adopted by the City Council with the concurrence of the Mayor
shall be eligible for continued funding.

SEC. 21.18.11. ANNUAL REPORT.

The City Administrative Officer, as the chief fiscal officer of the City of
Los Angeles, shall file a report with the City Council no later than January 1,
2010, and each year thereafter, which report shall contain: (i) the amount of
Special Tax funds collected and expended; and (ii) the status of any program
funded in part or in whole by Special Tax Funds.

SEC. 21.18.12. ADJUSTMENTS AND REFUNDS.

(a)	Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this tax may be filed
with the Office of Finance. Upon sufficient evidence of error in the computation
of the tax, the Office of Finance shall cause the tax to be recalculated, and shall
so advise the Los Angeles County Tax Assessor or other appropriate official.

PR-8000-14	1	8	NLC	001-018

(b)	Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been overpaid or
paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the City under this article, the refund procedure shall be as follows:

(i)	No claim for refund shall be allowed in whole or in part unless filed
with the Office of Finance within a period of one year from the date of the
claimed overpayment, and each claim for refund of the amount of the
overpayment must be filed on forms furnished, and in the manner
prescribed, by the Office of Finance. Refunds may be made from the SpecTal
Tax Fund.

(ii)	In the event the Office of Finance or the City Council denies the claim,
the Office of Finance shall notify the claimant pursuant to California
Government Code Section 913.

(c)	The Office of Finance shall have the same power to compromise claims
involving the Special Tax, and the same power to accept and record
underpayments or overpayments of the tax, as is granted to the Office of
Finance under Subsections (f) and (g) of Section 21.15 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code with respect to Business Taxes. The Office of Finance shall
have the same authority to make refunds of this tax as is provided in Section
22.13 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.

(d)	If the County of Los Angeles does not attempt to collect any tax due
under this article, then the Office of Finance shall have the power and duty to
enforce all of the provisions of this article. In that case, the Office of Finance
may make an assessment for taxes not paid against the owner of a Parcel in
the manner provided in Section 21.16 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.

(e)	The Special Tax shall be due in two equal installments in accordance
with the collection procedures of the Los Angeles County Tax Collector with
the first installment due November 1st and the second installment due
February 1 st in each fiscal year. The owner of a Parcel at the time set forth in
California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 405, shall have a personal
obligation to the City of Los Angeles until the tax is paid for each fiscal year.

SEC. 21.18.13. SUBMISSION TO VOTERS.

The ordinance enacting this article shall be submitted to the voters of the
City of Los Angeles. The taxes determined and proposed by this article shall
be levied only if the ordinance is approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds
of the voters voting. If the ordinance is approved by the requisite number of
voters, the article shall thereafter be considered a part of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code. Amendments to procedural provisions of this article may be
made by ordinance adopted by the City Council.

SEC. 21.18.14. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.

If any provision of this article is found invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect.

PR-8000-15

19

N LC 001-019