<full>


“Shall Chapter 5.150 be added to the San Mateo County Ordinance Code, which would impose a business license tax of two and one-half percent (2.5%)
of gross receipts on operators of vehicle rental businesses located in the unincorporated area of San Mateo County?”

FULLTEXT

Chapter 5.150 Business License Tax on Operators of Vehicle Rental
Businesses

5.150.010 Vehicle Rental Business Defined.

“Vehicle rental business” means any business or activity, regardless of how
organized or owned, that is operated by a private individual or entity which
rents, for any form of consideration, any motor propelled vehicle or truck,
including motorcycles, or other similar means of motorized land
conveyance for passengers or property.

5.150.020 Operator Defined.

“Operator” means any person who, as owner, lessee, employee, agent, or
otherwise, operates, maintains, manages, keeps, permits or allows to be
operated, maintained, managed, kept, or permitted any vehicle rental
business within the unincorporated area of the County of San Mateo.

5.150.030 Gross Receipts Defined.

“Gross receipts” includes the total of amounts actually received or
receivable for the renting of any motor propelled vehicle or truck, including
motorcycles, or of any similar means of motorized land conveyance for
passengers or property and for the rental or provision of any associated
optional equipment, services, or insurance, or for the performance or
provision of any other act or service, of whatever nature it may be, for which
a charge is made or credit allowed. Included in “gross receipts” shall be all
receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind or nature, without any
deduction therefrom on account of the cost of materials used, labor or
service costs, interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses
whatsoever. Excluded from “gross receipts” shall be the following:

(a)	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase
price and collected from the consumer or purchaser;

(b)	Such part of the price of services refunded either in cash or by credit
to the consumer or customer upon rescission of the contract;

(c)	Amounts collected by operators for others where the operator is
acting as an agent or trustee, to the extent that such amounts are paid
to those for whom the operator is acting as an agent or trustee,
provided that the operator has provided the County Tax Collector with
the names and addresses of those for whom the operator is acting as
an agent or trustee, and the amounts paid to them; and

(d)	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that refundable deposits
forfeited and taken into income of the business shall not be excluded.

5.150.040 Business License Tax Imposed.

Every operator of a vehicle rental business operated within the
unincorporated area of the County shall pay a business license tax of two
and one-half percent (2.5%) of the gross receipts received from the vehicle
rental business.

5.150.050 Registration.

Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter, or within
thirty (30) days after commencing business, whichever is later, each
operator of a vehicle rental business shall register said vehicle rental
business with the Tax Collector and obtain from him a “Vehicle Rental
Business License Certificate” to be at all times posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises. Said certificate shall, among other things, state the

following:

(1)	The name of the operator;

(2)	The address of the vehicle rental business;

(3)	The date upon which the certificate was issued;

(4)	“This Vehicle Rental Business License Certificate signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of this
chapter by registering with the Tax Collector. This certificate does not
authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct
any lawful business in an unlawful manner, nor to operate a
commercial parking facility without strictly complying with all local
applicable laws, including, but not limited to, those requiring a permit
from any board, commission, department or office of this County.
This certificate does not constitute a permit.”

5.150.060 Reporting and Remitting of Business License Tax.

Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the
close of each calendar quarter, or at the close of any shorter reporting
period which may be established by the Tax Collector, make a return to the
Tax Collector, on forms provided by him, of the operator’s gross receipts
from the vehicle rental business. At the time the return is filed, the full
amount of the business license tax due shall be remitted to the Tax
Collector. The Tax Collector may establish shorter reporting periods for
any operator if he deems it necessary in order to insure collection of the tax
and he may require further information in the return. Returns and payments
are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason.

5.150.070 Penalties and Interest

(a)	Original Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax
imposed by this chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty
of Ten Percent (10%) of the amount of the tax in addition to the
amount of the tax.

(b) Continued Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any
delinquent remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days
following the date on which the remittance first became delinquent
shall pay a second delinquency penalty of Ten Percent (10%) of the
amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the Ten
Percent (10%) penalty first imposed.

(c)	Fraud. If the Tax Collector determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud of the operator, a
penalty of Twenty-Five Percent (25%) of the amount of the tax shall
be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in subparagraphs

(a)	and (b) of this section.

(d)	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of
one percent (1%) per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first
became delinquent until paid. Interest shall be imposed on penalties
from thirty (30) days after an operator is notified of a delinquency.

(e)	Penalties Merged with Tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest
as accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a part of
the tax herein required to be paid.

(f)	Penalties imposed by this section are in addition to any other penalties
provided for in other sections of this code.

5.150.080 Failure to Report Tax. Determination of Tax by Tax Collector.

If any operator shall fail or refuse to make, within the time provided in this
chapter, any report and remittance of said tax or any portion thereof
required by this chapter, the Tax Collector shall proceed in such manner as
he may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to base his
estimate of the tax due. As soon as the Tax Collector shall procure such
facts and information as he is able to obtain upon which to base the
assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any operator
who has failed or refused to make such report and remittance, he shall
proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax, interest and
penalties provided for by this chapter. In case such determination is made,
the Tax Collector shall give a notice of the amount so assessed serving it
personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the operator so assessed at his last known place of address.
Such operator may within ten (10) days after the serving or mailing of such
notice make application in writing to the Tax Collector for a hearing on the
amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not made
within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined
by the Tax Collector shall become final and conclusive and immediately
due and payable. If such application is made, the Tax Collector shall give
not less than five (5) days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to
the operator to show cause at time and place fixed in said notice why said
amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and
penalties. At such hearing the operator may appear and offer evidence why
such specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such
hearing, the Tax Collector shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and
shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed
herein of such determination and the amount of such tax, interest and
penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen
(15) days unless an appeal is taken as provided in section 5.150.090.

5.150.090 Appeal.

Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Collector with respect
to the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the
Board of Supervisors by filing a notice of appeal with the Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors within fifteen (15) days of the serving or mailing of
the determination of tax due. The Board of Supervisors shall fix a time and
place for hearing such appeal, and the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
shall give notice in writing to such operator at his last known place of
address. The findings of the Board of Supervisors shall be final and
conclusive and shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed
above for service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be
immediately due and payable upon the service of notice.

5.150.100 Records.

It shall be the duty of every vehicle rental business operator liable for the
payment to the County of any license tax imposed by this chapter to keep
and preserve, for a period of three years, all records as may be necessary to
determine the amount of such license tax as the operator may have been
liable for the payment to the County, which records the County Tax
Collector shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

5.150.110 Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest, or penalty has been
overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the County under this chapter, it may be
refunded as provided in subparagraphs (b) and (c) of this section
provided a claim in writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury
the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the
Tax Collector within three (3) years of the date of payment. The claim
shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Collector.

(b)	At the election of the operator, any amount overpaid, paid more than
once or erroneously or illegally collected or received, may be refunded
or credited against future taxes owed under this Chapter 5.150.

(c)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.

5.150.120 Collection of Tax

(a)	Actions to Collect. Any tax required to be paid under the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the
County. Any person owing money to the County under the provisions
of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the
County of San Mateo for the recovery of such amount.

(b)	Recording Certificate. Lien. If any amount required to be paid to the
County under this ordinance is not paid when due, the Tax Collector,
may within three (3) years after the amount is due file for record in the
office of the San Mateo County Recorder a certificate specifying the
amount of tax, penalties and interest due, the name and address as it
appears on the records of the Tax Collector of the operator liable for
same and the fact that the Tax Collector has complied with all
provisions of this ordinance in the determination of the amount
required to be paid. From the time of the filing for record, the amount
required to be paid together with penalties and interest constitutes a
lien upon all real property in the County owned by the operator or
afterwards and before the lien expired acquired by him. The lien has
the force, effect and priority of a judgment lien and shall continue for
ten (10) years from the time of filing of the certificate unless sooner
released or otherwise

(c)	Priority and Lien of Tax. The amounts required to be paid by any
operator under this ordinance with penalties and interest shall be
satisfied first in any of the following cases:

(1)	Whenever the person is insolvent;

(2)	Whenever the person makes a voluntary assignment of his assets;

(3)	Whenever the estate of the person in the hands of executors,
administrators, or heirs is insufficient to pay all the debts due
from the deceased;

(4)	Whenever the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed or
absent person required to pay any amount under this ordinance
levied upon by process of law. This ordinance does not give the
County a preference over any recorded lien which attached prior
to the date when the amounts required to be paid became a lien.
The preference given to the County by this section shall be
subordinate to the preferences given to claims for personal
services by sections 1204 and 1206 of the Code of Civil
Procedure.

(d)	Warrant for Collection of Tax. At any time within three (3) years after
any operator is delinquent in the payment of any amount herein
required to be paid off within (3) years after the last recording of a
certificate of lien under section 5.150.120(b), the Tax Collector may
issue a warrant for the enforcement of any liens and for the collection
of any amount required to be paid to the County under this ordinance.
The warrant shall be directed to any sheriff, marshal or constable and
shall have the same effect as a writ of execution. The warrant shall be
levied and sale made pursuant to it in the same manner and with the
same effect as a levy of and a sale pursuant to a writ of execution. The
Tax Collector may pay or advance to the sheriff, marshal or constable,
the same fees, commissions and expenses for his services as are
provided by law for similar services pursuant to a writ of execution.

The Tax Collector, and not the court, shall approve the fees for
publication in a newspaper.

(e)	Seizure and Sale. At any time within three (3) years after any operator
is delinquent in the payment of any amount, the Tax Collector may
forthwith collect the amount in the following manner: The Tax
Collector shall seize any property, real or personal, of the operator and
sell the property, or a sufficient part of it, at public auction to pay the
amount due together with any penalties and interest imposed for the
delinquency and any costs incurred on account of the seizure and sale.
Any seizure made to collect occupancy taxes due shall be only of
property of the operator not exempt from execution under the
provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure.

(f)	Successor’s Liability. Withholding by Purchaser. If any operator
liable for any amount under this ordinance sells out his business or
quits the business, his successor or assignee shall withhold sufficient
of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner
produces a receipt from the Tax Collector showing that it has been
paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.

(g)	Liability of Purchaser. Release. If the purchaser of a commercial
parking facility fails to withhold purchase price as required, he shall
become personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be
withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price, valued in money.
Within sixty (60) days after receiving a written request from the
purchaser for a certificate, or within sixty (60) days from the date the
former owner’s records are made available for audit, whichever period
expires the later, but in any event not later than ninety (90) days after
receiving the request, the Tax Collector shall either issue the
certificate or mail notice to the purchaser at his address as it appears
on the records of the Tax Collector of the amount that must be paid as
a condition of issuing the certificate. Failure of the Tax Collector to
mail the notice will release the purchaser from any further obligation
to withhold purchase price as above provided. The time within which
the obligation of the successor may be enforced shall start to run at the
time the operator sells his business or at the time the determination
against the operator becomes final,

5.150.130 Effective Date.

The business license tax provided for in this ordinance shall become
effective on January 1, 2009 and all gross receipts of vehicle rental business
operators from and after that date shall be subject to the business license tax
imposed by this Chapter 5.150.

5.150.140 Violations.

Any vehicle rental business operator or other person who fails or refuses to
pay the license tax required herein, or to furnish the County Tax Collector
with data required by the Tax Collector in connection with collection of the
license tax, or who renders false or fraudulent data, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and is punishable as otherwise provided in this code and by
general law. Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any report
or claim who makes any false or fraudulent report or claim with intent to
defeat or evade the determination of any amount due required by this
chapter to be made is guilty of a misdemeanor and is punishable as
otherwise provided in this code and by general law.

5.150.150 Severability.

If any provision of this Chapter 5.150 or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the chapter and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.”

<fullend>








<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE R

The California Constitution and state law authorizes the County of
San Mateo Board of Supervisors, upon approval of a majority of the voting
electorate, to impose a general tax.

By this measure, the Board of Supervisors proposes to add Chapter
5.150 to the San Mateo County Ordinance Code. A copy of the proposed
ordinance is printed in the sample ballot. This measure and the
corresponding ordinance would authorize the County to levy a business
license tax on operators of vehicle rental businesses in the unincorporated
area of the County. The tax would be imposed at the rate of two and a half
percent (2.5%) on the gross rental receipts of vehicle rental businesses in
the unincorporated area. All gross receipts collected on or after
January 1, 2009 are subject to the tax.

The proposed ordinance defines a “vehicle rental business” as any
privately-operated business which rents any motor propelled vehicle or
truck, including motorcycles or other similar motorized vehicles.

The proceeds of the business license tax will be placed in the
County’s general fund to support general County services and functions.

A “yes” vote on this measure is a vote to approve and authorize the
imposition of a business license tax at the rate of 2.5% of gross
rental receipts on vehicle rental businesses in the unincorporated
area of San Mateo County as set forth in Chapter 5.150 of the San
Mateo County Ordinance Code. The tax would be used to support
general County services and functions.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the County to impose
a business license tax on vehicle rental businesses.

This measure passes if a majority of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.”

<impartialend>








<favor>

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

The County of San Mateo provides community and safety net services such
as law enforcement, medical services and human services to 756,000
residents, and delivers many programs promised to you by the State.
Unfortunately the burden of providing these programs and services is
expanding dramatically, while funding for these purposes continues to be
significantly cut by the State. As a result, the County is projecting a
structural deficit of $92.1 million by year 2013, an unsustainable gap that
must be closed.

The County has taken action to reduce the deficit through measured yet
significant cuts to its own budget, but simultaneously the State has made
continually more dramatic reductions in reimbursements for services it
mandates. We must find new ways to raise revenues while continuing to
pursue cost-cutting opportunities.

One way to help close the budget gap is the measure before you, a two and
one-half percent (2.5%) business license tax on gross receipts of vehicle
rental businesses in the unincorporated County area. This measure would
raise roughly $7.5 million without significantly impacting the pocketbooks
of County residents. The industry subject to this tax generates over $300
million in revenue annually, largely from visitors to the County of
San Mateo area, but currently pays taxes of barely 1% of that to the County
in which it operates. At the same time these vehicles contribute greenhouse
gas emissions to our air and traffic to our roads, affecting our quality of life.

This proposal is a necessary part of a strategy that will see the County of
San Mateo close its budget deficit in a balanced and fair manner. By voting
YES for this measure you are helping to ensure that the County will remain
an enjoyable and prosperous place in which to live for many years to come.

<favorend>







<favorsigs>

/s/ Richard S. Gordon  San Mateo County Supervisor	August 15, 2008	/s/
/s/ Mark Church  San Mateo County Supervisor	August 15, 2008	/s/
/s/ Jean Holbrook  San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools	August 15, 2008	/s/
/s/ Tom Huening  Controller San Mateo County	August 15, 2008	/s/
/s/ Don Horsley  Former Sheriff	August 15, 2008	/s/

<favorsigsend>








<rebutfavor>

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

Measure R would impose one of the highest gross receipts taxes in
California, on car rentals.

The tax is aimed at companies at the airport, but it is people who would
ultimately pay the price:

•	Laid-off rental car company employees would pay with their jobs.

•	Visiting friends and relatives would pay higher rental rates -this tax plus
8.25% sales tax. Outrageous!

•	Local businesses renting cars for clients and employees would pay, or cut
trips short, due to the increasing cost of doing business in San Mateo
County.

•	The entire hospitality industry would pay in lost business as a result.

•	If you rent a replacement vehicle while your car is in the shop, you would
pay higher rates.

Taxes are most effective and least objectionable when they are fair, broad-
based, and reasonable. Singling out one industry that is so tied into air
travel for a huge new tax is outrageous and shortsighted. This tax would
increase unemployment and cost-of-living.

Measure R has no end date. It is not a temporary tax to cover the County’s
current budget deficit. Measure R is a permanent tax.

If citizens don’t stand together and defeat Measure R, what will they tax
next?

Please vote NO on Measure R.

<rebutfavorend>








<rebutfavorsigs>

Michael J. Buckley  Retired Director of R&D	August 24, 2008
Margret Schmidt  Design Executive	August 24, 2008
Christopher VA Schmidt  Secretary, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	August 24, 2008
Donald F. Pettengill  Treasurer, Coastside Citizens for Good Government	August 25, 2008
Derek Watts  Operations Manager	August 25, 2008

<rebutfavorsigsend>











<against>



ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R

Record mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures. Soaring food and energy
(especially gas) prices. Increased unemployment. Californians are taking a
beating, and San Mateo County voters know it. Families are tightening their
belts, staying home more, and doing without. There is talk of possible state-
wide tax increases to come. These hard times are far from over.

What is San Mateo County’s proposed answer to this?

More tax increases - over $11 Million this time!

That is the estimated total take of Measure Q, the 8% parking lot tax, and
Measure R, the 2.5% auto rental tax. We’ll pay more for airport parking and
rental cars, if these taxes pass. Even restaurant valet and paid hotel parking
will be taxed, in unincorporated areas.

The cost of living is already a huge problem in San Mateo County.
Raising it further with new taxes will hurt us all.

Measures Q and R are on the ballot because San Mateo County cannot
control its spending on employee salaries and benefits. General fund
salaries/benefits spending increased 30% in just 3 years ($409 million
in 2005-06, to $535 million in 2008-09)! *

More taxes on hard-pressed families here WON’T SOLVE this problem.
No tax can keep up with that kind of spending!

San Mateo County must budget and spend responsibly,
before placing more burdens on its citizens!

Vote NO on unnecessary taxes in tough times!

VOTE NO ON MEASURES O and R !

<againstend>








<againstsigs>

/s/ Donald F. Pettengill	August 15, 2008
Treasurer, Coastside Citizens for Good Government	
/s/ Christopher Schmidt	August 15, 2008
Secretary, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	
/s/ John J. “Jack” Hickey	August 14, 2008
Member, Sequoia Healthcare District Board of Directors	
/s/ Margret Schmidt	August 14, 2008
Design Executive	
/s/ David Peters	August 14, 2008
Operations Manager

<againstsigsend>







<rebutagainst>

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R

Don’t Be Misled - Measure R does not tax the consumer

Measure R imposes a business license tax on rental vehicle businesses in
unincorporated San Mateo County. Measure R simply requires an industry
that benefits from serving a largely out-of-county population to pay its “fair
share” of the burden of supporting local government.

Government works only when all citizens bear their “fair share” of the costs
of government services. Rental vehicle businesses in the unincorporated
county place thousands of vehicles on our roads, negatively impacting the
environment, and requiring additional county resources such as law
enforcement, health care and emergency services.

The County Has Reduced Costs

Measure R supplements an aggressive cost-cutting program undertaken by
the county. In the FY 2008-09 budget, the county slashed expenses by $25
million and imposed a hiring freeze. Because of careful planning, the
county budget grew less than 2% over the past year, far less than that of
neighboring counties.

Vote YES on MEASURE R

Any economic downturn significantly impacts the county’s ability to
provide services when they are most critically needed, as revenues decline
and the demand for safety net programs increases.

Proceeds from Measure R will be used for basic services such as health
care, public safety and parks. Proceeds will also be used to protect our
most vulnerable populations— children, seniors and the disabled. Please
support Measure R to ensure San Mateo County remains a great place to
live, work and raise a family.

<rebutagainstend>






<rebutagainstsigs>

/s/ Jerry Hill	August	25,	2008

San Mateo County Supervisor

/s/ Ron Galatolo	August	22,	2008

Chancellor - San Mateo Community College District

/s/ John T. Sims	August	25,	2008

Asst. Chief, Cal Fire - San Mateo County Fire Dept

/s/ Cary Wiest	August	24,	2008

President, of the San Mateo Highlands Community Assoc.

/s/ Adrienne J. Tissier	August	20,	2008

President, San Mateo County Board of Supervisors

<rebutagainstsigsend>

	