MEASURE P: CITY OF ALAMEDA REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTION TAX MEASURE	
MEASURE P: To maintain essen- tial City services such as keeping existing fire stations open; main- taining neighborhood policing programs; improving traffic flow and pedestrian and bi preventing recreation program cutbacks; a previously reduced library hours; shall Alameda increase the City real property charged when a property is sold, from $5/ per $1,000.00 of value, limited to 20 years to audits?	YES
	NO
	cycle safety; nd restoring the City of transfer tax, 10 to $12.00 and subject

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure P.
If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please
call the elections official’s office at 510-747-4800 and a
copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
s/TERESAL. HIGHSMITH
City Attorney

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE P

This measure is submitted to the voters by the Alameda
City Council to amend the City’s current real estate trans-
fer tax.

Background. Real property located within the City of
Alameda has been subject to the real estate transfer tax
since 1967. This tax applies only when real property is
sold and is paid into the City’s general fund, which is allo-
cated by the City Council through the annual budget for
general city services, such as the fire and police depart-
ment, maintaining City streets and improving traffic flow
and pedestrian and bicycle safety, recreation programs and
library services.

The real estate transfer tax is currently imposed at the rate
of $5.40 for each $1,000 of the sales price. This tax is not
imposed, however, on transfers of property between
spouses or domestic partners or to transfers to a trust
where the primary beneficiary of the trust is the spouse,
domestic partner or child of the transferor.

The Measure. This measure would increase the real estate
transfer tax to $12.00 for each $1,000.00 of the sales price.
The City Council has the ability lower the rate, but voter
approval would be required for any further rate increase.
This measure maintains existing exemptions from the tax
for transfers of property between spouses, domestic part-
ners or transfers to a trust where the primary beneficiary of
the trust is the spouse, domestic partner or child of the
transferor. The City Council may expand these exemp-
tions, but may not reduce them.

This measure also coordinates the real estate transfer tax
with the County real estate transfer tax and provides that
real estate transactions exempt from the County tax under
state law shall also be exempt from the City’s real estate
transfer tax.

This measure also requires an annual, public audit to con-
firm the tax is properly collected and spent by the City
according to the requirements of this measure and other law.
This measure requires approval of a majority of voters.

A “yes” vote will approve the increase described above.

A “no” vote rejects the increase but maintains the existing
real estate transfer tax.

ALPM-1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Alameda is a safe, well run city thanks to the quality of our
fire and police services, our Parks, Libraries and Public
Works department. Recently, our City budget has been
devastated by factors beyond our control. In 2007-2008
alone, the State has taken $5.1 million from Alameda and
costs have risen dramatically. Because of a faltering econ-
omy, continuing diversion of our tax dollars to address the
State’s budget, decreases in local revenue and increases in
costs of delivering services, Alameda now has its own
budget crisis.

To balance the 2008-2009 budget the City was forced to
cut nearly $5 million, deferring important capital projects
and eliminating staff positions. We are faced with more
cuts jeopardizing essential services, potentially shutting
down a fire truck and reducing police services.

To address Alameda’s fiscal crisis, an increase in the real
property transfer tax set in 1993 from $5.40 per $1000 of
property’s sale price to $12.00 per $1,000 is proposed.
This transfer tax would be paid only when property is sold.
For example, a home or commercial property selling for
$700,000 would generate a one-time additional tax of
$8,400.

There’s no tax on transfers/gifts of property in or out of a
trust or between family members. There’s no tax for a
transfer involving a divorce, no tax when there is a transfer
when someone inherits upon the owner’s death, no tax if
someone is forced to relocate because of foreclosure or in
lieu of foreclosure when the sale price doesn’t exceed
what’s owed.

We support this measure because the new revenues generat-
ed will stay in Alameda and cannot be taken by Sacramento.
Revenues will be used to maintain our critical services such
as fire and police. Protect Alameda’s future. Preserve quali-
ty services for Alameda. Please Vote Yes on P.
s/Beverly J. Johnson
Mayor
s/Ben Reyes
Attorney/Alameda Homeowner
s/Ruth Belikove
President of Alameda Free Library Board
s/William Schaff
President, AUSD Board of Trustees
s/Gail A. Wetzork, CLU, ChFC
Pres. Friends of the Parks

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE P

This measure is bad public policy, plain and simple.

The substantial increase in transfer tax is unfair because it
places the burden of the entire city budget deficit on the
relatively few people who buy and sell property in any
given year. Sound public policy would allocate the
required revenue over a greater portion of our population
so everybody contributes a little, rather than a few having
to pay a potentially devastating sum.

This proposal will reduce housing affordability in Alame-
da. If it passes, it will have a significant impact on the
costs of a real estate transaction. Cash strapped sellers,
many of whom have no equity, will be forced to pay more
than double the tax that currently exists. Buyers, who are
having an increasingly difficult time obtaining loans, will
have to pay significantly more to purchase.

This source of revenue has been shown to be extremely
volatile. As the number of transactions change, so does the
transfer tax revenue. Given the sharp drop in real estate
transactions, it is possible that the proposal will not
accomplish the goals of City Hall.

Don’t be fooled. This is not a one-time tax. This tax is
imposed on each sale and purchase of property.

We oppose this measure because it is bad public policy. It
is unfair, unduly burdensome on a few members of our
community and bad for housing affordability.

Vote No on R
s/C. Richard Bartalini
Superior Court Judge, Retired
s/Bruce A. Edwards
Alameda Police Captain (Retired)
s/Dianne Richmond
President Alameda Association of Realtors
s/Troy Staten
Realtor and Homeowner
s/Deidra Ostrofsky-Williams
Homeowner

ALPM-2

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

Ballot Statement in Opposition to Measure P.

City Hall wants to place the entire burden of their recent
budget deficit on the backs of the buyers and sellers of
Alameda property. They are proposing to raise the transfer
tax (the tax imposed when a property is purchased) from
$5.40 per $1,000 in value to $12.00 per $1,000 in value;
an increase of over 122%! If this measure passes, it will
place Alameda’s transfer tax as the fourth most expensive
out of California’s 480 cities. On the sale of a $600,000
home, this would increase the tax from $3,420 to $7,200.
In the ten years from fiscal year 1994/1995 to fiscal year
2004/2005 the annual transfer tax receipts by City Hall
increased from $930,000 to $4,330,837 according to the
State Controller. At the same time, assessed values in
Alameda (the amount upon which property taxes are
based) increased from $3.8 Billion to $6.5 Billion. Yet
now, as property owners struggle, the city wants to more
than double its tax. Why? Because City Hall did not save
any money for a rainy day and they want property buyers
and sellers to pay for it. This is an unfair tax and it is bad
for Alameda. It is taxation without gain because it is
imposed even if there is no profit. It is imposed even if
there is no equity. It decreases affordability of homes in
our city. It is a tax that is regressive in nature.

City Hall will argue that they need the tax to maintain
police and fire protection. Isn’t that the same argument
each city gives when they want more of your money?
Don’t be fooled by revenue hungry City Hall. This is bad
for Alameda and it is bad for you. Vote no on P.
s/C. Richard Bartalini
Superior Court Judge, Retired
s/Bruce Edwards
Alameda P.D. Captain (Retired)
s/Dianne Richmond
Homeowner and President Alameda Association of
Realtors
s/Troy Staten
Homeowner and Realtor
s/Deidra Ostrofsky-Williams
Homeowner

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

The City has managed its resources well and has acted
aggressively to save your tax dollars in an environment in
which Alameda, since the early 90’s, has suffered a cumu-
lative loss of tax dollars to the State of over $50,000,000.
The City made severe cuts in the 2007 and 2008 budgets.
More cuts, such as shutting down a fire truck, reducing
police services, additional cuts in library and park pro-
grams and deferring necessary Public Works projects loom
given the likelihood of more take aways once the State
budget is approved and more revenue losses as the econo-
my continues to falter.

In spite of this, Alameda property values remain solid pre-
cisely because Alameda is a safe place with fine parks,
schools and excellent city services. Alameda’s transfer tax,
which was set fifteen years ago and is the second lowest
among surrounding cities has contributed substantially to
funding the services that help keep property values up.
Measure P will increase this tax from 0.54% to 1.5% of the
sales price. The services that are saved by this tax protect
and serve Alamedans and are a major factor in maintaining
Alameda’s property values.

Passage of Measure P is good for Alameda.

It keeps our tax dollars in Alameda.

It will fund public safety services, libraries, parks and nec-
essary maintenance of our streets and public facilities.
Please join us in voting yes on Measure P.
s/Burnham E. Matthews
Alameda Chief of Police, Retired
s/Robert A. Bonta
Co-President, City of Alameda Democratic Club and
Homeowner
s/Kathleen Pryor
Homeowner and business owner
s/Frank Matarrese
City Council Member

ALPM-3