l-brixow-

	
. .. 	PftQff—  8	

(]}(mare* -

STATE MEASURES

_ _ EMINENT DOMAIN, LIMITS ON GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY. QQ INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars state and local governments from taking or damaging private property for private uses. Prohibits rent control and similar measures. Eliminates deference to government in property rights cases. Changes condemnation rules. Fiscal Impact: Increased costs due to the measure's restrictions. The net statewide fiscal effect, however, pr significant.	184	YES^O  185	N0-*O  to many governments obably would not be
AA EMINENT DOMAIN. LIMITS ON GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION QQ OF OWNER-OCCUPIED RESIDENCE. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars use of eminent domain to  acquire an owner-occupied residence for conveyance to a private person or business entity. Creates exceptions for public works, public health and safety, Fiscal Impact: No significant fiscal impact on state or local governments.	188	YES->0  189	no -*0  and crime prevention.
CITY  HERMOSA BEACH CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION	
_ IMPROVING EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES. To maintain high t quality education for Hermosa's schools, support classroom instruction, ■■ maintain and create small class sizes, and preserve educational programs, shall Hermosa Beach City School District levy a parcel tax for Two Hundred Fifty-Seven Dollars ($257) per assessor parcel per year, not to exceed a 5% annua years, with exemptions available for seniors and disabled persons, a citizens’ accountability measures and all funds being used locally?	193	YES-KD  194	N0-*O  1 increase, for five (5) oversight committee,

END OF BALLOT

08-008E

D LA 178-010

HERMOSA BEACH CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT PUBLIC EDUCATION
QUALITY PRESERVATION MEASURE OF 2008

INTRODUCTION

The revenues raised by this Measure (Measure) shall be used to prevent serious
deterioration in the quality of public education in Hermosa Beach in the face of
large and sweeping State cuts in funding of public schools, and to promote
continued student achievement in the core curriculum. This Measure includes
the accountability and public information protections which are listed in this
Measure.

PURPOSE

The revenues raised by this Measure shall be used by the Hermosa Beach City
School District (the “District”) exclusively for the following purposes:

Core Programs:

-	Art classes and programs

-	Class Size Reduction and Small Class Size

-	Music classes and programs

-	Science classes and programs

-	Administrative Student Support

-	Physical Education programs during and after school

-	Student Health and Nutrition Programs

-	Education Technology and Technology Education programs

-	Parent/Teacher/District information and communication technology

-	View/Valley Additional Programs (including Choir, math and science
Olympiad, Valley Spring Musical, View Math Night, View/Valley counseling,
assemblies, field trips)

-	View/Valley Library supplies and staff hours

-	Provide needed textbooks and instructional materials

-	Sustain high academic achievement and ensure student success as academic
needs evolve by maintaining essential academic programs, including science,
math, language arts, visual and performing arts (theater, drama, vocal and
instrumental music, visual arts, dance), and foreign language, while
maintaining the ability to attract and retain quality teachers

-	Programs for students with special needs

-	Staff professional development for core curricular programs

-	Student council programs and California Junior Scholarship Association
activities

None of the parcel tax revenue will be used to build new classrooms or new
structures.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901105-1

D LA 178-023

Program Support:

-	Information Technology (IT) support for Core Programs listed above and
infrastructure needs for core programs listed above.

Administrative Costs:

-	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District
accountability by providing for citizens’ oversight and independent financial
audits of revenues and expenditures.

-	Costs for annual collection of Parcel Tax charged by County.

-	Costs of Parcel Tax Election (initial tax year only).

ACCOUNTABILITY AND PUBLIC INFORMATION MEASURES

Separate Account - Annual Written Reports: In accordance with the
requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the
following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the Parcel Tax:
(a) the specific purposes of the Parcel Tax shall be those purposes identified
above; (b) the proceeds of the Parcel Tax shall be applied only to those specific
purposes identified above; (c) one or more separate, special accounts shall be
created into which the proceeds of the Parcel Tax must be deposited; and (d) an
annual written report shall be made to the Board of the District showing (i) the
amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the Parcel Tax
and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be
funded from the proceeds of the Parcel Tax, as identified above.

Annual Budget: As part of the adoption of the annual budget for the Hermosa
Beach City School District, the Board of Trustees shall identify the revenues
expected to be generated from the levy and collection of the Parcel Tax
authorized by this Measure and shall identify the proposed expenditures of such
funds consistent with the intent of this Measure. The annual budget shall be
presented to the Citizens’ Oversight Committee following its adoption by the
Board of Trustees.

Citizens’ Oversight Committee: That if the Parcel Tax is approved, the Board of
the District shall establish and appoint members to a citizens’ oversight
committee (referred to herein as the “Oversight Committee”). The
appointment(s) to the Oversight Committee shall be made either at a regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board, or at a special meeting of the Board, the time,
place and date of which shall have been announced at a regularly schedule
meeting of the Board. At the time of making any such appointment(s) to the
Oversight Committee, information concerning the qualifications of the Oversight
Committee candidates to be considered by the Board (subject to redaction of
personal information, such as addresses, phone numbers and e-mail addresses)
shall be available to members of the public.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901105-2

0 LA 178-024

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE E(Continued)

Annual Audit Report: Each year, an independent auditor retained by the District
shall review District records to determine that funds generated by this Measure
have been maintained and expended in compliance with the District’s budget and
that other conditions of this Measure have been satisfied. Each such audit shall
be conducted in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the
Standards and Procedures for Audits of K-12 Local Educational Agencies and
this Measure.

PARCEL TAX

Parcel Tax. The qualified special tax (Parcel Tax) proposed to be levied pursuant
to the applicable sections of State law and the Measure shall be in an amount not
to exceed $257 per year, which may increase up to 5% per year (as determined by
the Board).

Application to Parcels. As used herein, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of
land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the District, for which
the Assessor of Los Angeles County has assigned as assessor’s parcel number;
provided, however, that any such parcels which are (i) contiguous; (ii) used
solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes; and (iii) held under
identical ownership, may, by annually submitting an application of the owner(s)
thereof by June 15 of each year, to this Board in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by this Board (“Rules and Regulations”), be treated as the
single parcel for purposes of the levy of this Parcel Tax. All property that would
otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition
of the within-referenced Parcel Tax.

The Parcel Tax to be authorized pursuant to this Measure may be collected in
the same manner as ad valorem property taxes through the County of Los
Angeles and as otherwise set forth in Resolution #05:07/08 as adopted by the
Board of Trustees of the District, which is on file with the Clerk of such Board
and available for public review upon request.

The Board may set the amount of the qualified special tax at a lesser amount per
parcel than is authorized hereunder.

AVAILABLE EXEMPTIONS FROM PARCEL TAX

The following shall apply with respect to the Parcel Tax authorized by such

Measure;

(i) Properties Otherwise Exempt from Property Taxes. All property that would
otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the
imposition of the within-referenced Parcel Tax.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901105-3

D LA 178-025

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE E (Continued^

(ii)	Senior.Citizen.Exemption. Pursuant to...California Government-Code'....

Section 50079(b) any owners who are sixty-five (65) years of age or older of

a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes
may obtain an exemption from the levy of the Parcel Tax, by submitting an
application annually of such owners or persons, prior to June 15 of each
year, to this Board in accordance with the Rules and Regulations.

(iii)	Disability Exemption. Pursuant to California Government Code Section
50079(b) any owners or persons receiving Supplemental Security Income
for a disability, regardless of age, of a Parcel used solely for owner-
occupied, single-family residential purposes may obtain an exemption from
the levy of the Parcel Tax, by submitting an application annually of such
owners or persons, prior to June 15 of each year, to this Board in
accordance with the Rules and Regulations.

TERM

This qualified special tax shall be authorized to be levied each year for five (5)
years, beginning in the tax year commencing on July 1, 2008.

Reduction in Parcel Tax if Result is Reduction of Other Government Support
for Education. The collection of the Parcel Tax is not intended to decrease or
offset any increase in local, state or federal government sources that would
otherwise be available to the District during the period of the parcel tax. In the
event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District shall
cease the levy or shall reduce the Parcel Tax to the extent that such action would
restore the amount of the decrease or offset.

Constitutional Appropriations Limit. The Board may increase the appropriations
limit for the District in accordance with Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the
California Constitution and Section 7902.1 of the Government Code (or
applicable successor law).

Savings Clause. The provisions of this Measure shall not apply to any person,
association, or corporation or to any property as to whom or which it is beyond
the power of the District to impose a qualified special tax. If any part of this
Measure, as written or as applied to any person, is finally determined by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, such
determination shall affect only such part of this Measure and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or other
parts of this Measure. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board and
of the electorate that this Measure would have been adopted had such part
thereof not been included.

PR-901105-4

D LA 178-026

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E	------

By Raymond G. Fortner, Jr., County Counsel

Approval of Measure E would authorize the Hermosa Beach City School District
Board of Trustees (“Board”) to levy a special parcel tax in an amount not to
exceed $257 per year on each parcel of taxable real property that receives a
separate property tax bill for ad valorem property taxes located within the
Hermosa Beach City School District (“District”). The tax would be levied for five
(5) years, may increase up to 5% per year, and shall take effect on July 1, 2008.
The collection of the tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in
local, State or federal funds otherwise available to the District.

The tax revenues would be used exclusively for art, music and science classes and
programs, class size reduction, administrative student support, physical
education and student health and nutrition programs, communication and
technology programs, textbooks and instructional materials, special needs
programs, attracting and retaining teachers, maintaining programs in science,
math, language arts, visual and performing arts and foreign language, staff
development for core curriculum programs, and for View/Valley library supplies
and staff hours.

Exemptions to the tax are available to any owners, 1) of more than one parcel if
such parcels are contiguous, used solely for owner-occupied, single-family
residential purposes, and are held under identical ownership, or 2) who are 65
years of age or older of a parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family
residential purposes, or 3) who are receiving Supplemental Security Income for
disability, regardless of age. In order to receive the exemption, the owner must
annually submit an application to the Board in accordance with any rules and
regulations adopted by the Board. In addition, all property that is otherwise
exempt from property taxation will also be exempt from the special parcel tax.

The Board shall establish and appoint members to a citizens’ oversight
committee. As part of the adoption of the annual budget for the District, the
Board shall identify the revenues expected to be generated from the tax and the
proposed expenditures of such fund, and shall present the adopted annual
budget to the oversight committee. Each year, an independent auditor retained
by the District shall review District records to determine that funds generated
have been maintained and expended in compliance with the budget and other
conditions of this Measure. The District’s Superintendent or chief business
official shall at least annually provide a written report to the Board which
contains the amount of tax received and expended, and the status of the
acquisition and financing of the programs and infrastructures with the proceeds
of the tax.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901105-5

D LA 178-027

The taxes levied under this Measure shall be collected at the same time and
manner, and shall be subject to the same interest and penalties, as general ad
valorem taxes collected by the Los Angeles County Treasurer and Tax Collector.
The District shall create a separate account into which the proceeds of the
special tax shall be deposited.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-901105-6

D LA 178-028

Our Schools, Our Homes, and Measure E

As Sacramento’s budget crisis drives California farther downhill, do we fall with
it or stand up to protect our schools and our property values?

California schools have fallen to 46th in per pupil spending. Hermosa suffers from
reduced funding even by California’s sorry standards because we don’t receive
money tied to low-test scores, English learners, or subsidized lunches. Hermosa’s
funding would rank 48th, ahead of only Utah and Arizona.

Through fundraisers and appeals, Hermosans raised $800 per student this year,
saving smaller class sizes in the lower grades, music, PE, and science labs. And,
because hundreds of Hermosans donated 10% of the budget, they became
spending watchdogs demanding accountability.

Now Sacramento’s proposed cuts of about $500 per student threaten to
overwhelm the community’s ability to avoid teacher layoffs and preserve
essential classroom programs.

Great schools support the value of our homes and help give Hermosa its “small
town” feel. Families want to move here knowing they can avoid private school
tuition while still getting a top-notch education for their children.

For each dollar Hermosa taxpayers paid for education in 2006 Sacramento
returned only 33 cents to us. But Sacramento cannot touch our parcel tax money.
It stays here. By passing Measure E, Hermosa can choose independence from
Sacramento’s failures and control local support for quality public education.

The measure includes additional taxpayer protections such as exemptions for
seniors and the disabled, a five-year term limit, an annual independent
compliance audit, and an oversight committee. It excludes construction of any
type.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901105-7

D LA 178-029

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E (Continued)

If this effort succeeds, Hermosa’s per student funding will rise to 37th in the state
rankings, between Colorado and Alabama. Not luxury perhaps, but enough to
preserve the good teachers and essential programs we have worked so hard to
protect.

BARBARA R. ZONDIROS
Hermosa Beach School Board Member

KIM O’BRIEN
Teacher, Hermosa Valley

JIM CALDWELL
Parent, Homeowner

GEORGE J. SCHMELTZER
Former Mayor of Hermosa Beach

CATHERINE S. MCCURDY
Retired School Board Trustee (16 years)

PR-901105-8

D LA 178-030

Fool us once, shame on you; fool us twice, shame on us.

There is a tradition in education that says if one dollar doesn’t work, spend two
dollars.

The proponents of Measure E have failed to disclose some very important facts
about this parcel tax:

1.	Owners of shopping centers, hotels, supermarkets and apartment and office
buildings pay the same amount as the owner of a 750 square foot condo.

2.	A 5% increase in the tax each and every year from $257 to $312.37. This
additional money gives the Hermosa Beach City School District more reason to
keep spending.

3.	Sacramento cannot touch our parcel tax money? Yes they can. If the parcel
tax raises $1.5 million, Sacramento can reduce their contribution to Hermosa
Beach City School District by $1.5 million.

Hermosa Beach City School District does not have a revenue problem; Hermosa
Beach City School District has a spending problem.

Is this accountability: recently buying new administrative office furniture and a
$5,000 phone system while at the same time sending layoff notices to teachers?
Let’s not forget the $14,000 spent to poll 250 people to find out the majority
polled did not want a parcel tax at even less than the proposed amount. Good
teachers make good schools, not luxuries.

Do we trust the Hermosa Beach City School District who has failed to cut back
non-essential spending to now spend our parcel tax revenues wisely?

Stop throwing good money at bad management! Let’s preserve the quality of our
children’s education.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE E. No more indiscriminate spending!

GORDON B. EVANS
Retired Hermosa Resident - Artist

MARY LOU WEISS
Retired School Board Member

LINDAS. IGO

Member of Hermosa Beach City School
District Plan to Plan Committee

GEORGIA TATTU

Retired Teacher and Former School Board Member
SAM TATTU

Retired H.S. English Teacher

PR-901105-9

D LA 178-031

Here we go again.

The people proposing this parcel tax are basically the same group who
misrepresented the purpose of Measure J and failed to build much-needed
classrooms.

The School Board has exhibited poor planning skills; they have been shortsighted
in their spending and they expect the community to keep giving them money
without any kind of plan in place. Are they accountable to no one?

Teachers have stated that they will live with budget cuts and they will provide the
students a good basic education. Further, a great many of the Hermosa Beach
teachers do not support this tax.

This measure is full of purposely broad programs just as Measure J was. Until
such time as we are presented with a budget that specifically states where our
money will go, and there is some guarantee of accountability, DO NOT give this
measure your vote.

VOTE NO ON THE HERMOSA BEACH PARCEL TAX
LINDA S. IGO

Member Hermosa Beach School District
Plan to Plan Committee

SAM TATTU
Retired Teacher

MARY LOU WEISS
Retired School Board Member

GEORGIA TATTU

Retired Teacher and Former School Board Member

GORDON B. EVANS

Retired Hermosa Homeowner & Artist

D LA 178-032

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST-MEASUREfE

Hermosa voters have the rare opportunity to control the future of our public
schools by voting YES on Measure E.

Measure E would use the proceeds of a parcel tax of $257 per parcel to cover the
gap between Sacramento’s painful budget cuts and the funding Hermosa’s
schools need to maintain our Blue Ribbon achievement results.

Every Measure E penny stays here. It exempts seniors and the disabled.

Opponents feel Hermosans should expect no more than the “basic” education
Sacramento’s funding permits. That “basic” education means crowded
classrooms in the especially critical early education years, no elementary science
lab, no music classes, reduced PE programs...

Supporters of Measure E believe we have the right to set higher standards for
ourselves. Delivering only the “basics” threatens our reputation as one of the
best communities in California and eliminates the very programs our schools
must have to excel.

We all know that quality public schools increase property values. They also make
Hermosa an attractive place to live - bringing strong families and desirable
businesses to the community.

We cannot allow Sacramento’s failures to threaten our schools and deflate the
value of our homes. A one percent drop in home prices lowers the value of the
average Hermosan’s home by over $9030. Now is not the time to damage our real
estate values by crippling our schools. Community support has kept our schools
strong and our property values high.

Defend Hermosa’s schools and our community. Vote YES on E.

J.R. REVICZKY

Mayor

SANDI PFISTER
Hermosa Realtor

CATHERINE BARROW
Hermosa Valley Teacher

KIM O’BRIEN
Teacher, Hermosa Valley

PR-901105-11

D LA 178-033