<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A2008

A county local transportation authority (Authority) may adopt an
ordinance imposing a retail transactions and use tax to fund
local and regional transportation projects and programs
specified in an expenditure plan. The sales tax must be
' approved by a two-thirds vote at a countywide election.

In 1989, Santa Barbara County voters approved Measure D, a
Santa Barbara County Local Transportation Authority ordinance,
imposing a 'A cent sales tax and adopting a transportation
expenditure plan. Measure D authorization expires March 31,
2010.

Measure A2008, if approved, will extend the existing 'A cent
sales tax authorization for 30 years beginning April 1, 2010 to
March 31, 2040. The Measure A2008 ordinance includes a
transportation expenditure plan (Investment Plan) identifying
various transportation projects and programs to be funded by
the sales tax revenues.

The ordinance and Investment Plan are published in the ballot
pamphlet and provide that tax revenues may only be used
consistent with the adopted Investment Plan. (§ 17). All projects
funded by the ordinance must be consistent with regional
transportation plans, any applicable congestion management
plans and the California Environmental Quality Act.

Program funds are generally allocated as follows:

•	The North County and the South Coast of Santa Barbara
County each receive $455 million to be expended within
each region as specifically described in the Investment
Plan.

•	Approximately 60% of revenues to the County of Santa
Barbara and the cities within the county as “Local Street
and Transportation Improvement" funding to be expended
on projects selected by city councils and the board of
supervisors.

•	$140 million as matching funds to widen Highway 101 from
4 to 6 lanes between Carpinteria and Santa Barbara.

•	$42 million for improvements on Highway 101 in North
County.

Localities must annually adopt a 5-year program of projects and
local jurisdictions must maintain expenditures of local
discretionary funds for streets and roads at Fiscal Year 2007-
2008 levels in order to receive funds (§§18, 27).

The ordinance requires the Authority to meet in public and
encourage public participation, an advisory Citizens Oversight
Committee, and annual audits. It allows cooperative funding
agreements between jurisdictions.

The Authority may not spend more than 1% of sales tax funds
for salaries and benefits (§ 29). Funds must be held in a
separate account with interest spent only for the purposes
allocated. A maximum annual appropriations limit _ of
$200,000,000 is established beginning in 2010-2011. Limited

•	tax bonds to accelerate construction of transportation projects
are authorized. Except for tax rates, termination date, and
appropriations limit, the Authority may amend the ordinance or
Investment Plan by 2/3 vote after a noticed public hearing. (§§
17, 21).

The AA cent sales tax is estimated to generate $1,050,000,000
over 30 years. These funds are anticipated to match or
leverage $522,000,000 of other funds.

A YES vote on Measure A2008 means the ordinance and
continuation of the tax are APPROVED.

A NO vote on Measure A2008 means the ordinance and tax are
NOT APPROVED and the existing Measure D authorization
expires March 31,2010. <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> Dennis A. Marshall
COUNTY COUNSEL <impartialsigsend>








<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A2008

Measure A is a fair, balanced plan for repairing, maintaining and
improving our local roads; expanding the use of buses, bikes,
trains and walking; and easing traffic congestion on our
highways, intersections and major streets.

Most importantly, Measure A does NOT increase our taxes,
which is one of the reasons the Santa Barbara County
Taxpayers Association endorses Measure A. Measure A
merely continues what has been a dependable and important
source of local funding over the past 20 years for maintaining
• and improving Santa Barbara County's transportation system.

All of the money from Measure A stays in Santa Barbara
County, with all areas of the county getting their fair share of tax
revenue and benefits. Sacramento politicians can not take the
money to fix their budget mess.

Projects supported by Measure A will make our roads and
highways safer for motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians.
Measure A will also ensure that our roads and highways are in
good condition during emergencies, helping our police,
firefighters and ambulances respond quickly.

Some of the dozens of local and regional transportation projects
that Measure A will fund include: Safe Routes to School for
children; repairing and maintaining local roads; expanding bus
and other transit programs countywide to ease increasing traffic
congestion; synchronizing traffic signals; improving Highway
101 interchanges; and widening Highway 101 to six lanes.

Part of the money will go to retrofitting bridges against
earthquakes and improving existing passenger rail service to
get cars off of Highway 101.

Measure A also qualifies Santa Barbara County to receive more
than $520 million in matching state and federal funds - bringing
home more of your tax dollars for local transportation projects
- that directly benefit you.

Please join us in voting YES for Measure A to improve our local
roads and highways, enhance our public transit services and
ease growing congestion — all WITHOUT increasing taxes.

The undersigned proponent(s) of the primary argument in favor
of ballot Measure A20QB at the Presidential General Election to
be held on November 4, 2008, hereby state(s) that such
argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and
belief. <favorend>





<favorsigs> /s/ Salud Carbajal, 1st District County Supervisor

/s/ Dave Davis, Executive Director Community Environmental
Council

/s/ Brooks Firestone, 3rd District County Supervisor

/s/ Linda K. Phillips, Ph.D, President, League of Women Voters
of Santa Barbara

/s/ Andy Caldwell, Executive Director of COLAB <favorsigsend>







<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE A2008

Measure A is an unbalanced plan to upgrade county
transportation infrastructure and is a large tax increase as well.
It should be rejected and replaced with a more useful plan.

Measure A now has too much funding'going to maintenance
and too little going to major regional projects. Major regional
projects are typically funded 75% by federal and state sources
(from others) not County sources (from us) so we get a lot more
for our money than for other things. Doubling major projects will
open up another $1 Billion of other peoples' money spent on our
roads that isn’t taxed to us.

Measure A revenue is divided half to North and half to South
because population is split that way now. This will change over
time and the funding spilt should track the population spilt. A 20
year measure cuts taxes by 1/3 or $350 Million.

Vote NO! on the present Measure A and yes next year on a
better proposal.

The undersigned proponent(s) of the rebuttal to the argument in
favor of ballot Measure A2008 at the Presidential General
Election to be held on November 4, 2008, hereby state(s) that
such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge
and belief. <rebutfavor>






<rebutfavorsigs> /s/ Scott Wenz, President Cars Are Basic

/s/ M.R. Ward Sr., Santa Barbara County Republican Party

/s/ Jennifer Herrera, Executive Director, Flx101.org <rebutfavorsigsend>






<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A200B

Measure A, a sales tax increase like failed predecessor
Measure D, is an inadequate program to deal with serious
countywide traffic problems. It should not be approved in its
present form because it doesn't do the job despite costing
taxpayers $1 billion.

Measure A spends too little on major regional improvements
(20 percent) and too much on minor local improvements (60
percentO. It spends too much on uneconomical ideas ($25
million on commuter rail) and not enough on projects of real
benefit. It ties us down for 30 years which is too long given the
major changes coming because of soaring oil prices and the
resulting altered lifestyle. The proposed citizen advisory
committee within it needs more power to be effective.

Matching funds of up to 75% of total cost from federal and state
sources are available for main road improvements. Stressing
these projects speeds up the improvements and lowers county
expenditures.

Because this is a sales tax, Measure A will hit seniors and
working families especially hard. Shortening the time period
from 30 years to 10 years will cut the obligation by almost 70%.

if this Measure A fails, there is ample time to prepare and
submit a good one or more to voters in 2010. Its framers will be
under intense pressure to do a more effective job and are more
likely to rise to the occasion and do better. Everyone, including
us, wants an effective Measure A that will produce positive
results at reasonable cost and is renewable in ten years. We
say TRY AGAIN IN 20101

Support common sense and reduce tax waste! Vote NO on
A! <againstend>





<againstsigs> /s/ Jennifer Herrera, Executive Director, Fix101.org

/s/ Scott Wenz, President, Cars Are Basic, Inc.

/s/ M.R. Ward Sr., Chair, Santa Barbara County Republican
Party <againstsigsend> 






<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE A2008

Measure A does NOT increase our taxes. Measure A merely
continues what has been a reliable source of local funding for
maintaining and Improving Santa Barbara County’s vital
transportation system over the past 20 years.

Measure A is a balanced plan, reflecting priorities identified by
residents from Santa Maria to Carpinteria during a year of
public meetings and hearings.

Measure A provides each city its fair share of revenue, while
supporting projects that benefit the entire county. Some of the
things that Measure A will accomplish WITHOUT raising your
taxes include:

Enhancing Public Safety - Keeping our roads in good
condition for quick response by police, firefighters and
ambulances.

Improving Local Roads - Guaranteed county and city funding
to maintain and improve roads, including fixing potholes and
improving intersections.

Supporting Alternative Transportation — Enhanced local and
regional bus service, along with funding to make walking and
bicycling safer and easier.

Reducing Congestion - Widening 101 to six lanes will ease
traffic and benefit all parts of the county.

To ensure that funds are spent efficiently and all projects are
completed as promised, Measure A establishes a clear system
of accountability, including a Citizens Oversight Committee,
annual audits and public review of expenditures.

Best of all, every penny from Measure A stays in Santa Barbara
County. And Measure A qualifies Santa Barbara County to
receive $522 million in matching state and federal tax dollars
that would otherwise to go to other counties.

Please vote YES on Measure A. For better, safer roads and
less traffic, WITHOUT increasing taxes.

The undersigned proponent(s) of the rebuttal to the argument
against ballot Measure A2008 at the Presidential General
Election to be held on November 4, 2008, hereby state(s) that
such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge
and belief. <rebutagainstend>






<rebutagainstsigs> /s/ Lois Capps, Member of U.S. Congress

/s/Joe Armendariz, Executive Director, Santa Barbara
Technology & Industry Assn.

/s/ Bill Brown, Sheriff-Coroner, Santa Barbara County

/s/ Paula A. Perotte, President, Parent Teacher Association
Fifteenth District

/s/ Joe Centeno, S.B. Co. 5th District Supervisor <rebutagainstsigsend>







