IHISii

f* ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

Shall the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority continue to plan, design, construct and provide transit services as described in the draft Valley
Transportation Plan 2035 (VTP 2035) to be adopted by December 2008? VOTING FOR THIS MEASURE DOES NOT INCREASE TAXES.

VOTO CONSULT1VO UN1CAMENTE

I Debe la Auforidad de Transports del Valle de Santa Clara continuar pianeando, disenando, construyencio y proporcioriando servicios de transports conforme se describen
en el anteproyecio del Plan de Transports del Valle 2035 {VTP 2035) a ser adoptado en diciembre de 2008? VOTAR POR ESTA MEDIDA NO AUMENTA LOS
IMPUESTOS,

YES ^
St ^

FTA

NO V

p> Shall the following ordinance be enacted?

■"* The ordinance adopted by the people of the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority on March 2, 1976 (Measure B) and amended by the voters at the
November 6, 1990 election, shall be further amended to read as follows; "It shall be the policy of the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority to submit to the 2000
Measure A Citizen's Watchdog Committee every 6 years a comprehensive transit program for review and comment."

YES j.
Si *

NO *

iDebe promutgarse la siguiente ordenanza?

La ordenanza adoptada por !a gente de la Autoridad de Transporte del Valle de Santa Clara el 2 de marzo de 1976 (Medida B) y enmendada por ios votantes en la election
del 6 de noviembre de 1990, debera enmendarse para que se lea de la siguiente manera: '’Debera ser la politica de la Autoridad de Transporte del Vatie de Santa Ciara
jaresentarcadajSj^

CITY OF CAMPBELL
CIUDAD DE CAMPBELL

O

In order to maintain and protect City services and facilities, such as City streets and pothote repair, fire protection and 911 emergency medical services, police
patrols, neighborhood watch and crime prevention programs, the Community Center, recreation programs, and parks, shall the City of Campbell be authorized to
enact a one-quarter cent sales tax, with all proceeds placed in the City's Genera! Fund with independent annual financial audits?

A fin de mantener y proteger Ios servicios e instaiaciones de ia Ciudad, tales como caiies de ia Ciudad y reparation de baches, servicios de protection contra incendios y de
emergencia medica del 911, patrulias de poiicfa, vigilancia de vecindarios y programas de prevention del crimen, el Centro Comunitario, programas de recreation, y
parques, i.debe autorizarse a ia Ciudad de Campbell para que promuigue un impuesto a las ventas de un cuarto de centavo, cuyo producto se coiocara en el Fondo General
de la Ciudad con auditorias financiers anuaies independientes?

YES ^

Si “

F.

NO "

CAMPBELL UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE 0

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 0

If approved by the voters, Measure 0 will provide for an additional lu-
cent tax on each dollar of taxable sales of goods in the City of Campbell,
and on the storage, use or consumption in the City of Campbell of
goods purchased from a retailer. This tax is commonly known as a
"sales tax," and is technically referred to as a "transactions and use
tax." The tax will be deposited into the City's general fund, and may be
used for general municipal governmental purposes, including police and
fire services, street and sidewalk maintenance, public works, the
Community Center and senior programs, and other governmental
functions and services. The measure does not bind the City to use the
proceeds of the tax for any particular services, facilities, or programs.

The % cent sales tax would be in addition to the current sales tax, and
would be collected in the same manner as the existing sales tax.
Presently, the combined State and local sales tax rate in Campbell
totals 8 % cents per dollar. Of this amount, the State receives 6 14
cents, the City receives 1 cent, the Santa Clara County Transit District
receives % cent, and the Santa Ciara Valley Transportation Authority
receives % cent.

Each year an independent auditor shall complete a financial compliance
and audit report to include the revenue raised by the tax and its
expenditure.

The proposed tax is authorized by State law subject to approval by two-
thirds of the City Council and a majority of the voters voting in an
election on the tax. On August 5, 2008, the Campbell City Council
unanimously approved the proposed measure. A full copy of the text is
printed in these ballot materials.

If approved by a majority of the voters at the November 4, 2008 election,
the Measure 0 %-cent sales tax would become operative beginning on
April 1, 2009.

A YES vote will approve the measure,

A NO vote rejects the measure.

Respectfully submitted,

William R. Seligmann
City Attorney of Campbell

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE O

...~ ORDINANCE NO^f 11

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
CAMPBELL AMENDING THE CAMPBELL MUNICIPAL CODE,
ENACTING A 1/4 CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR
MAINTENANCE OF VITAL CITY SERVICES TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CAMPBELL DOES HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. A new Chapter 3.09 is hereby added to Title 3 (“Revenue
and Finance") of the Campbell Municipal Code, to read as follows:
"Chapter 3.09 Vital City Services Maintenance and Protection
Transactions and Use Tax

3.09.010. TITLE. This ordinance shali be known as the "Campbell Vital
City Services Maintenance and Protection" Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The City of Campbell hereinafter shall be called "City," This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.09.020. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of
the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth
below.

3.09.030. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof
be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A,	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance
with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 7285.9 of Part, 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the
City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B,	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Safes and
Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
[imitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization
in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can
be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest
degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the
cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the
same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

PR-7537-1 e

N SC Ballot Type 150 - Page 36

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE 0 - Continued

3.09,040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the Operative Date, the
City shaii contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform ai!
functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shaii not
have contracted with the State Board of Equaiization prior to the
operative date, it shaii nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shaii be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract.

3.09.050, TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 0.25% of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the safe of all tangible personal
property sold at retail In said territory on and after the operative date of
this ordinance. Such tax shall be in addition to any other transactions
tax imposed by this Code or applicable State law.

3.09.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, ail
retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to
the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
State or has more than one place of business, the pface or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules
and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

3.09.070. USE TAX RATE, An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of
this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of 0.25% of the sales price of the property, The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made,
Such tax shall be in addition to any other use tax imposed by this Code
or applicable State law.

3.09.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 {commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set
forth herein,

3.09,090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES, In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as
the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted
therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made:

1,	When the word "State" is used as a part of the title
of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board
of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE 0 - Continued

2.	When the result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain saies, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such saies,
storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would
not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shaii be substituted for the word "State” in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.09,100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED, if a seller's permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

3.09.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions
tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradiey-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B,	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1,	Sales of tangible persona! property, other than fuel
or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws
of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which
is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to

N SC Ballot Type 150 - Page 37

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE 0 - Continued

a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point.
For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a
point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3,5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his or her principal
place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-
City and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is

obligated	to furnish the property for a fixed price

pursuant	to a contract entered into prior to the

operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible persona! property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance,

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

C,	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this
ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City
of tangible persona! property:

1.	The gross receipts from the saie of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
taws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1
of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE 0 - Continued

entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance,

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible persona! property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships
or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the safe of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving
the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority
of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall
also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division
3,5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retaiier shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses
the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
City,

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retaiier liable for
a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption
of which is subject to the use tax,

3.09.120. AMENDMENTS.

A. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to

N SC Ballot Type 150 - Page 38

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE 0 ■ Continued

affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance unless any
increase in the rate of this tax is first approved by the voters of
the City of Campbell voting on such question.

B. Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9217 or any
successor statute, the City Council of the City of Campbeii
may amend or repeal this ordinance and any of its exhibits,
but not increase or extend the rate of tax imposed herein, or
the indebtedness authorized hereunder, without the approval
of the voters of the City of Campbeii voting on such question.

3.09,130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or
writ of mandate or other iegai or equitable process shaii issue in any
suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or
against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Part 1,6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected,

3,09,140. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the
appiication thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
remainder of the ordinance and the appiication of such provision to
other persons or circumstances shaii not be affected thereby,

3.09.150. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS, (a) Ali proceeds of the tax levied
and imposed hereunder shall be paid into the Genera) Fund for use by
the City of Campbeii.

3.09.160. ANNUAL AUDIT.

By no later than December 31st of each year, the City's independent
auditors shall complete a Financial and Compliance Audit Report to
include the revenue raised and expended by this tax.

SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE This ordinance relates to the levying
and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take
effect 10 days following certification by the City Council of approval of
the ordinance by a majority vote of the qualified voters of the City voting.
SECTION 3. Upon approval by the voters, the City Clerk shall certify
the passage of this ordinance; publish the same as required by
appiicable law, and forward a copy of the adopted ordinance to the
Board of Equalization.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE O - Continued

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council at its regular meeting of
August 5, 2008 by the following vote;

AYES : Council members: Furtado, Kennedy, Low, Hernandez, Burr
NOES : Councilmembers; None
ABSENT : Councilmembers: None

APPROVED:

/s/Donald R. Burr
Mayor

ATTEST:

/s/Anne Bybee
City Clerk

PR-75374e

N SC Ballot Type 150 * Page 39

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 0

Vote YES on 0 - Preserve essential services now and protect our
quality of life in Campbell for the future.

Did you know that due to the weak economy and the state budget crisis,
the City has been forced to make significant reductions to vital city
services? Campbell has been forced to make millions of dollars in cuts,
including:

•	Reducing public safety services and programs

•	Eliminating annua! sidewalk maintenance

•	Eliminating funding for Sunday Library hours

•	Reducing neighborhood traffic enforcement

The City has tightened its belt and is operating as efficiently as possible
with fewer resources. The Campbell City Council has worked hard to
keep taxes low, but our City cannot continue to provide the ievei of
service that citizens want and need, without additional funding, Without
this measure, essentia! City services such as police patrols and overdue
street repairs will be cut further,

YES on 0 - Several hundred Campbell citizens and community leaders
provided input on priorities that led to the development of Measure 0 to
address our budget challenges.

YES on 0 maintains current levels of public safety and police services,
including anti-drug, gang, and neighborhood crime prevention programs,

YES on 0 maintains rapid response time for fire and 9-1-t emergency
medical services and prevents further cuts to police patrols and overdue
street repairs.

YES on 0 offsets revenue that Campbell has lost to the State;
Campbell may lose even more due to the State's multi-billion dollar
deficit.

YES on 0 generates local funds for OUR local needs. Every cent
stays in Campbell to maintain the services important to residents,

Campbell is a special community with excellent services and programs
that residents value. YES on 0 maintains support for services that are
vital to Campbell's character.

I ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 0 - Continued
Vote YES on 0 to keep Campbell a quality community.

Is/ Donald R. Burr
Mayor, City of Campbell

/s/Arthur Low
President, Campbell Chamber of Commerce

/s/Sally H. Howe
Publisher, "Campbell Express"

Is! Gary Berg
President, Campbell Peace Officers' Association

Is! Dennis Beiluomini
Treasurer, Campbell Little League

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE 0 WAS SUBMITTED