Colusa County

CIT • OK’ COLUSA

MEMBER, CITY COUNCIL

Vote for No More Than THREE

MIEMBRO DEL CONSEJO DE CIUDAD

Vote par No Mas de TRES

e ||! State of California	
	
MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS A LOS VOTANTES  cfuDADDEC^LUSA	

MEASURE A

CD	ROBERT J. MACKABEN  Incumbent  Titular
CD	KAY MILLARD HOSMER  Business Owner Empresario
CD	KIRK R. KELLEHER  Business Owner Empresario
CD	Vlri\e-\N Insertion por escrito
CD	Vlnte-inl Insertion por escrito
CD	Write-inl Insertion por escrito
	CITY CLERK  Vote for ONE
SECRETARY DE LA CIUDAD  Vote por UNO	
CD	Write-in/Insertion por escrito
	CITY TREASURER  Vote for ONE
	TESORERODE LA CIUDAD  Vote por UNO
CD	GAR ROURKE  City Treasurer Tesorero de la Ciudad

Shall City of Colusa Ordinance No. 439
levying a transactions and use tax of
one-quarter of one percent (0.25%)
within the city limits, with tax revenues to
be used for general municipal purposes,
be approved?

CD YES / SI
CD NO/NO

MEDIDAA

cDebe aprobarse ta Ordenanza No. 439
de la Ciudad de Colusa imponiendo un
impuesto de transacciones y uso por una
cuarta parte del uno por ciento (0.25%)
dentro de los llmites de la Ciudad, para
que los ingresos tributarios se utilicen
con fines municipales en general?

MEASURE B

Advisory Vote Only

Should revenue from the transactions
and use tax of one-quarter of one
percent (0.25%) proposed by Ordinance
No. 439 be used to fund City of Colusa
police and fire employee benefits?

CD YES / SI
CD NO/NO

MEDIDA B

Voto Consultivo Solamente

cDeben destinarse los ingresos
tributarios de transaction y uso por una
cuarta parte del uno por por ciento
(0.25%) propuesto en la Ordenanza No.
439 y destinarlos a financiar fondos para

Tuesday, November 4,2008

SAMPLE BALLOT

CITY OF COLUSA

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF CITY MEASURE A

The Colusa City Council has placed Measure A on the
November 4,2008 ballot asking voters to adopt Ordinance
No. 439 imposing a transaction and use tax of 0.25% (one
quarter of one percent). This would be the equivalent of
a quarter of a cent tax on an item that costs a dollar, or
twenty-five cents on an item that costs $100. A copy of
Ordinance No. 439 is provided in the sample ballot.

The current tax rate in the City of Colusa is 7.25%. Of the
7.25% tax rate, 6% goes to the State, and 1.25% goes
to fund County and City operations. The transaction and
use tax, like a sales and use tax, would be levied on the
sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail.
Accordingly, if voters approve Measure A the total tax rate
for most purchases in the City would increase to 7.50%.

This tax is a “general tax” rather than a “special tax.”
The revenue generated from the proposed tax would
be deposited into the general fund, and the proceeds
would be used for any lawful municipal purpose within the
discretion of the City Council.

A “yes” vote is a vote to adopt Measure A allowing the City
of Colusa to levy a transaction and use tax at the rate of

0.25%. A “no” vote is a vote against adopting Measure A
and against the tax.

Voter approval of Measure A is required by the California
Constitution. Measure A requires a “yes” vote by a majority
of the voters in order to become effective.

DATED: August 19, 2008

/s/ Steven P. Rudolph
Colusa City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF CITY MEASURE A

Is it important to support the men and women who help
keep our lives and property safe? You bet it is!

For years now, Colusa Police and Fire employees have
had to contend with low salaries and antiquated benefits.
Measure A will help change that. The revenues generated
by just a quarter of a cent increase will help recruit and,
more importantly, retain qualified and dedicated Police
and Fire employees.

Currently, the sales tax in Colusa is 7.25% compare to
7.50% for the City of Williams. Both the Cities of Woodland
and Lakeport have increased their taxes to 7.75%. The
Yuba City and Marysville area are still at 7.25%, but for
how long? The proposed increase is not unreasonable!

Presently, a $10 purchase in Colusa costs 73 cents in
sales tax. With the passage of Measure A, the same
purchase would cost 76 cents, an increase of only three
pennies. A $100 purchase now costs $7.25 in sales tax,
with the increase, the same purchase would cost $7.50,
an increase of only 25 cents.

The Police Department has become a revolving door for
training police officers. The Fire Department depends on
its 5 paid employees to help maintain the city’s current
ISO Class 3 rating. Both departments maintain excellent
response time to calls for service.

The City of Colusa has had a hard time improving the
salaries and benefits of its public safety employees due to
financial woes each year. Voting “Yes” on Measure A will
help ensure better recruitment and retention of qualified
employees, and for only one fourth of a penny.

Your public safety employees need your help. Vote “Yes”
on Measure A.

/s/ Joshua E. Fitch

Colusa Police Officers Assoc,
and Colusa Public Safety Group

Is/ David A. Harbison

Colusa Professional Firefighters Assoc,
and Colusa Public Safety Group

ARGUMENT AGAINST CITY MEASURE A
(None Filed)

06/3

MEASURE A
ORDINANCE NO. 439

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF COLUSA
IMPOSING A GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE COLLECTED AND ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION SUBJECT TO VOTER APPROVAL

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF COLUSA HEREBY ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. FINDINGS. The City Council of the City of Colusa hereby finds as follows:

a.	Additional revenue is necessary to fund important municipal programs.

b.	The City Council may propose that voters approve a general tax increase to raise additional funds for general municipal
purposes.

c.	A transaction and use tax is a type of general tax that may be levied by the City Council to achieve these purposes.

d.	Pursuant to Section 7285.9 of the Revenue and Tax Code, the City Council may levy a transactions and use tax for general
purposes at a rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) or a multiple thereof, if the ordinance proposing the tax is approved
by a two-thirds vote of all members of the City Council and the tax is approved by a majority vote of qualified voters of the
City voting in an election.

e.	A transaction and use tax of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) would generate sufficient revenue to fund important
municipal programs.

f.	California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2(b) requires that an election on a general tax, including a transactions and use
tax, be consolidated with a statewide general election at which members of the City Council will be elected.

g.	November 4, 2008 is the date of the next statewide general election at which members of the City Council will be elected.

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT OF CODE. Article VIII entitled, “Transactions and Use Tax” shall be added to Chapter 8 of the
Colusa City Code and shall read as follows:

“Section 8-51. Title. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Colusa Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Colusa
hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 8-52. Operative Date. “Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days
after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 8-53. Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this
tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at
an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax
Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires
the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

Section 8-54. Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform
all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not
have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case
the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

06/4

Section 8-55. Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the City at the rate of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 8-56. Place of Sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 8-57. Use Tax Rate. A use tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8-58. Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though
fully set forth herein.

Section 8-59. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted
therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board
of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration
or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not be subject to tax by the State under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 8-60. Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 8-61. Exemptions and Exclusions.

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B. There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

06/5

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of. property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of
sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty
of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of
tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or
any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which
is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property
for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of,
or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to
a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use
tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

06/6

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to
the use tax.

Section 8-62. Amendments to State Law. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate
of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 8-63. Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of
tax required to be collected.

Section 8-64. Refunds and credits: suits and legal proceedings.

A.	Refunds of and credits for any tax paid pursuant to this Chapter may be made only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	Suits and proceedings for the recovery of any amount alleged to have been erroneously or illegally determined or collected
pursuant to this Chapter may be maintained in any court only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code. A judgment shall not be rendered in favor of the plaintiff in any action brought against the State
Board of Equalization to recover any amount paid when the action is brought by or in the name of an assignee of the person paying
the amount or by any person other than the person who paid the amount.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. The City Council of the City of Colusa hereby declares that they would have adopted
each and every provision of this ordinance irregardless of the invalidity of any other provision.

SECTION 4. CODIFICATION. Subject to the voter approval, the City Clerk, in consultation with the City Attorney, is hereby authorized
and directed to codify this ordinance in the Colusa City Code.

SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE. If this ordinance is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the issue at the November 4,
2008 election, pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the City Council
declares the results of the election.

The foregoing Ordinance was introduced at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Colusa, California, held on March 18,
2008, and was passed and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council held on April 1,2008 by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

ATTEST:

/s/ Robert J. MacKaben, Mayor

/s/ Pete Rodda, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

/s/ Steven P. Rudolph, City Attorney

06/7