1114108 - Cameron Estates CSD - Measure H — Parcel Tax

Shall a special tax be levied within the Cameron Estates Community
Services District pursuant to Board Resolution No. 2007-04for road
improvements, upgrades, and maintenance according to the following
schedule:

A.	Residential property: a maximum increase of $250.00 over the current
assessment of $250.00for a total amount of $500.00 per year per residential
parcel?

B.	Commercial property, described as parcels 109-111-14-100,109-111-15-
100,109-111-16-100,109-111-17-100 and 109-111-18-100: a maximum of
$1,000.00 per year?

Impartial Analysis from the County Counsel

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure, would
authorize a special tax on parcels of real property within the boundaries of
the Cameron Estates Community Services District ("District"), to be used to
cover the costs of maintaining, upgrading and improving roads within the
District.

This special tax would be in the following amounts: (a) for all residential
parcels: $250 per year per parcel of land, (b) for all commercial parcels:

$1,000 per year per parcel of land.

The special tax authorized by this measure would be in addition to any
existing taxes or benefit assessments.

The special tax will be listed as a separate item on the county property tax
bill for each parcel of land, and will be collected in the same way as the
general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and
enforcement of county property taxes, including provisions for penalties and
procedure for sale of the property in case of delinquency, shall also apply to
the special tax. State law requires the District to prepare an annual report to
determine the amount of special tax funds collected and expended, and to
describe the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by the
special tax.

This measure requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of all voters voting
on the measure in order to pass.

A "YES" vote is a vote to authorize the special tax provided in the measure.
A "NO" vote is a vote against the special tax provided in the measure.

Louis B. Green - El Dorado County Counsel

Arguments For Measure H

On May 9 1989, the Cameron Estates Community Service District (CECSD)
agreed to collect a special assessment for the benefit of the District. These
funds are primarily used to maintain the roads of the District. The amount of
the assessment is $250.00 per residential parcel per year. This assessment
amount has remained unchanged since the original authorization.

Since 1989, the cost of road repairs has increased 235% according to the
California Highway Construction Cost Index. Given the increase in costs,
the District can no longer maintain the roads adequately with the present
funding. The CECSD Board and many residents are requesting the special
assessment be increased $250 to a total of $500 per year.

The CECSD's road maintenance program is an annual process that includes
a complete survey of the roads. Road repairs are performed as available
funds allow. In recent years, necessary road repairs have not been done due
to the lack of available funds.

In 2008, the road survey shows there are approximately 31,000 sq. ft. of
repairs, which can only partially be funded. Given the expected funding, it is
clear that not all necessary repairs can be performed this year. This has been
the case for the last 5 years or more.

Maintaining the District's 16 miles of roads adequately is essential. First,
roads must be safe for residents and others. Roads cannot be allowed to fall
into disrepair where it endangers travelers. Second, reasonable roads are an
important part of maintaining property values. Cameron Estates is a
beautiful and desirable place to live and maintaining an adequate road
infrastructure is a critical part of it.

Vote YES on Measure H to maintain safe roads and preserve property
values.

Mark Steven Lewis, CECSD Vice President James Sholl, CECSD President
Doris Miller, CECSD Board Member Angela Johnson, CECSD Board
Member Mark P. Leja, P.E.

Arguments Against Measure H

No Argument Against the Measure Was Submitted