IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U
PREPARED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY

Measure U is submitted to the voters by the Sierra Madre City Council to update the City’s current Utility Users Tax and
increase the rate to generate additional municipal revenues.

Background.

A utility users tax (UUT) is a tax levied on each user of a utility (e.g. telephone, electricity, gas, water, wastewater, solid
waste disposal, cable or video services) within the City’s boundaries. UUT revenues are paid into the City’s general fund,
which is used to fund city services and programs. The City's current Utility Users’Tax rate is 6% of applicable charges,
has been in force since at least 1993, and is based upon a model ordinance developed in the 1970’s.

A citizens Ad-Hoc Finance Committee was formed to consider the City’s current financial condition. The Committee
concluded, and the City Council agreed, that the City has an urgent need for additional revenue to fund basic City ser-
vices. More specifically, the Committee recommended, and the City Council approved, submitting an increase in both
the scope and rate of the existing UUT in order to generate additional revenue that can be used to fund general City
services, including essential services such as police, fire and paramedics.

Furthermore, telephone regulation, marketing and technology have changed greatly in ways that were not contemplated
by the original UUT ordinance. Telephone companies have introduced cell phone service and many other new services
and features. It is expected that telephone companies will continue to develop new forms of telecommunications technol-
ogy in the future. The language of the existing ordinance does not directly address new technologies and legal changes
and therefore challenges have been raised by phone carriers that could threaten this revenue in the future if the UUT is
not updated.

The Measure.

Measure U WILL:

•	Temporarily increase the UUT rate from 6% to 12% over a period of three years to raise additional general fund
revenues. Unless approved anew by the voters, the rate will decrease over time beginning in 2014, reverting
back to the current 6% rate by 2016.

•	Increase the scope of the UUT to include video, water, sewer/wastewater and solid waste disposal services.

•	Expand the existing exemption for very low income senior citizens to tndude all low-income households.

•	Update the definitions in the UUT, so that the tax applies equally to customers using older telephone technology
as well as those using newer telecommunications technology, such as wireless or VOIR

•	Establish a citizen oversight committee to review and provide recommendations concerning the expenditure of
the additional revenues generated by the measure.

Measure U WILL NOT:

•	Tax access to the internet;

•	Tax internet purchases and downloads, such as books, music, ringtones, games or similar digital products.

Measure U requires approval of a majority of voters. A “yes” vote for Measure UA w® approve the update and rate in-
crease described above; a “no” vote will leave in place the City’s existing	Users Tax Ordinance.

/s/ Sandra J. Levin
Sierra Madre City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

The Sierra Madre City Council, on the recommendation of a citizens committee, and with the support of our local police
and many concerned residents urges a “Yes" vote on Measure “U”. We all agree Measure “U” is critical to the future of
Sierra Madre. Measure “U” is necessary to fairly compensate and retain our police officers, preserve our vital paramedic
program and continue to provide services that reflect iong-held community values including library, parks and recreation,
and senior programs.

Why Measure “U”? A citizens committee, at the City Council’s request, examined the city's budget and projected revenues.
They reviewed a budget that curtails street resurfacing, provides no pay raises for city employees, and funds paramedic
services for only two years - all on top of prior budget cuts. After three months of analysis these citizens concluded
there is nothing left to cut and unanimously recommended an increase in the utility users tax (UUT) as the fairest way
to address the problem.

Measure “U” provides a gradual increase in the UUT ceiling phased in over three years that will preserve essential city
services. Measure “U” is transparent as it requires a citizens committee to review expenditures annually. Measure “U”
protects those of limited means with a low income exemption and also protects voters as the increases it proposes must
be re-approved by voters in the future.

Sierra Madre is an All-America city because ft has faced and overcome challenges as a community. The financial
constraints of the future areourbfagjestctiallerigeyet. Measure Vis a fair and prudent way for us to meet that challenge
together. Please vote ‘Yes” on Measure V.

Is/ Enid Joffe, Mayor

/s/ Joseph Mosca, Mayor Pro Tern

/s/ John Buchanan, City Councilmember

/s/ Don Watts, City Councilmember

/s/ Kurt Zimmerman, City Councilmember

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U

(None Filed)

HEXSOREUTSer

ORDINANCE NO. 2007-

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SIERRA MADRE, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING AND
REPLACING CHAPTER 3.36 OF THE SIERRA MADRE MUNICIPAL CODE TO MODERNIZE
THE UTILITY USERS’ TAX AND INCREASE THE RATE TO PRESERVE AND FUND
IMPORTANT CITY SERVICES.

WHEREAS, the City of Sierra Madre has collected a Utility Users Tax (UUT) since 1993 and the current rate of the UUT is 6%;

WHEREAS, the City will need the revenue generated by the existing UUT plus substantial new revenue to corttae to provide essential City services
such as safety services, street maintenance, library services and park and recreation services,

WHEREAS, essential City services are currently in jeopardy because safety services within the City are understaffed, the City’s revenue has not kept
pace with its expenses, police, fire, paramedics aid other employees are paid substantially below their counterparts in coaparabie jurisdictions, infrastructure is
deteriorating without the funds to make necessary improvements and repairs;

WHEREAS, the City desires to increase the tax rate incrementally from 6% to 12% in order to continue to tod general c% services, including safety
services, street maintenance, library services, and park and recreation services;

WHEREAS, telephony and related communications services have changed dramatically since the irraptbesftte UUT ana communications
technology, telephone calling and marketing plans and state and federal legislation continue to evolve at a rapes pace

WHEREAS, any increase in rate or modernization and clarification of the UUT to include current tecnaotopes ene reSect me realities of the current
communications industry require voter approval under the California Constitution;

WHEREAS, the revenue generated by even the existing UUT is likely to be lost over time due to mantel areata. changing technology and other

factors;

WHEREAS, the City desires to modernize its ordinance to treat users of communications services r, a after, and equitable manner, regardless of
the means of transmission or technology used, so that users of communications services transmitted by ira®oas toAtsefogies (such as land lines) do not bear a
greater tax burden than users of communications services transmitted via newly developed technologies:

WHEREAS, the City desires to expand the existing exemption for low income senior citizens;

NOW, THEREFORE,

The People of the City of Sierra Madre do ordain, as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 3.36 of the Sierra Madre Municipal Code is hereby amended and replaced sc seat as feta®:

Section 3.36.010 Description and purpose.

This chapter shall be known as the "Utility Users Tax Ordinance.” The purpose of this chapter is to iapMBftafltewsers rat as a revenue measure
necessary to pay the usual and current expenses of conducting the municipal government of the city, the proceedsm sard rto the general tad of
the city.

3.36.020	Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this Section govern the construes* eHMs -Qsaptsr

1.	“Ancillary Telecommunications Services" means services that are associated with or incidents tc	a	enjoyment	of

Telecommunications Services, including but not limited to the following services:

(1)	‘Conference Bridging Service’ means an ancillary service that '>£ r*o or aaK:pmoo&m a an audio or video
conference call and may include the provision of a telephone number. Conference BrxSentadBas no? -case toe telecommunications
services used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	‘Detailed Telecommunications Billing Service’ means an aocHary service of sspaasesy saing information pertaining to
individual calls on a customer’s billing statement.

(3)	‘Directory Assistance’ means an ancillary service of providing telephone number	andtor address

information.

(4)	‘Vertical Service’ means an ancillary service that is offered in connection wito one or more telecommunications
services, which offers advanced calling features that allow customers to identify callers and io manage oxiftipte cals and call connections,
including Conference Bridging Services.

(5)	‘Voicemail Service’ means an ancillary service that enables the customer to store, send or receive recorded messages.
Voicemail service does not include any vertical services that the customer may be required io have in order to utilize toe voicemail service.

2.	“Billing Address” means the mating address of the Service User where the Service Supplier submits invoices or hiiis for payment by the customer.

3.	“City" means the city of Sierra Madre.

4.	“Cogenerator" means any Person employing cogeneration technology (as defined in Section 218.5 of the California Public Utilities Code) for
producing power from other than a conventional power source for toe generation of electricity for self-use or sale to others.

5.	“Communication Services” means Telecommunications Services and Video Services.

6.	“Gas” means natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel which may be substituted therefor.

7.	“Month” means a calendar month.

8.	“Nonutility Supplier" means (a) an electricity supplier, other than an electrical corporation franchised to serve the city, which generates electrical

Sierra Madre /14

0 acres & at fessr Sjy Mcwatts fee ss owr. aseorfor sate to covers. mckxfcng those using cogeneration or fuel cell technologies; or (b) a gas
%aemr	far* a ges aaporaeon feaacsssed » serve sue ofy .that se*s or supplies gas to other users within the city.

9	«*hou wnsason. ary ooraesac. non-prc#? or foreign corporation, firm, association, syndicate, joint-stock company, partnership of any

*ne jorr ae^are owe. suss. *wsed SataSsy company, business or common-taw trust, society, any natural individual, cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian or
after raeresenaswe acccmtea oy order erf any court or any municipal corporation (other than the City).

19. -Privaie CommunicatKms Services’ means any defeated Communications Services that entitle the user to the exclusive or priority use of
crsermjracahc-ns channels.

11.	‘Service Supplier’ means any Person or entity required to coKecf or self-impose and remit a tax as imposed by this chapter, including any entity
or fforson that provides communication, electric, Gas, Video Services or water service to a user of such services within the City and the billing agent of any such
enmy.

12.	“Service User” means a Person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter.

13.	'Tax Administrator" means the city manager or his/her designee.

14.	'Telecommunications Services” means the transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals
sb a point, or between or among points, whatever the technology used, whether or not such information is transmitted through interconnected service with the
public switched network, or through fiber optic, coaxial cable, power line transmission, broadband, digital subscriber line or other wireless transmission. The
term Telecommunications Services” includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on the
form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over
nternet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data
services that is functionally integrated with Telecommunications Services. Telecommunications Services include, but are not limited to the following services,

, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed; central office and custom calling features (including but not limited to call
| waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling), local number portability, text messaging, Ancillary Telecommunication Services; prepaid and
| post-paid services (including but not limited to prepaid calling cards); mobile telecommunications service; Private Communication Service; paging service; and
800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission). Telecommunication Service does not include charges for
access to the internet or digital downloads, such as downloads of books, music, ringtones, games and similar digital products.

15.	Telephone Corporation.” ‘Electrical Corporation," ‘Gas Corporation,” and “Water Corporation,’ shall have the same meanings as defined in
Sections 234,218,222,241, respectively, of the California Public Utilities Code except, “Electrical Corporation," “Gas Corporation” and "Water Corporation”
shall also be construed to include any municipality or public agency engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power or Gas or water to a Service User.
‘Electrical Corporation” shall Include any organization or municipality or agency engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power to a Service User.

16.	"Video Service Supplier” shall mean any Person, company, or service which provides one or more channels of video programming or video
communications (including the leasing of channel access to provide such video programming or communications) to or from an address in the City, including to
or from a business, home, condominium, or apartment, where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that service, whether
or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or communications. Video Service Supplier includes, but is not limited to,
multichannel video programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 522(12)], suppliers of cable television, master antenna television, satellite master
antenna television, multichannel multipoint distribution services, direct broadcast satellite (to the extent allowed by federal law), and other suppliers of video
programming or video communications (including two-way communications), whatever their technology.

17.	“Video Services” shall mean any and all services related to the supplying of video programming (including origination programming),
communications (including two-way communications), regardless of the content of the video programming or communications, and shall include, without
limitation, the leasing of channel access (e.g., home shopping) to the extent that the Service User is subject to an additional direct or indirect charge for
programming or communications over the leased channel and ancillary video services, including any service that is associated with or incidental to the provision
or delivery of Video Services, including but not limited to electronic program guide services, search functions, or other interactive services that are associated
with or incidental to the provision or use of video programming.

3.36.030	Effect of state and federal authorization.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to impose or collect the tax imposed in this Chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state
or federal law, no amendment or modification of this Chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected
to the full extent of the City’s authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed by this Chapter.

3.36.040	Communication Users'Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every Person with a Billing Address or service address in the City who uses Communication
Services, including intrastate, interstate (including calls to the District of Columbia), and international Communications Services, to the extent permitted by state
and federal law. The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate as established in Section 3.36.180 on the charges made for Communication Services and
shall be collected from the Service User by the Service Supplier or its billing agent. To the extent allowed by law, the tax on Communication Services shall apply
to a Service User if the Billing Address or service address of the Service User is within the City’s boundaries.

B.	Except as otherwise provided herein, Communication Services shall include all Communication Service for which there is a charge,
regardless of the means or technology used to provide such services. The tax imposed under Subsection A, above shall not be imposed upon any Person for
using the following Communications Services:

(1)	Except with respect to local telephone service, services used in the collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker
service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press or radio broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news through the public
press, or a news ticker service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press or by means of radio broadcasting, if the charge
for such service is billed in writing to such Person.

(2)	Services furnished to a public international organization in which the United States participates pursuant to treaty or Act of
Congress, or to the American National Red Cross.

(3)	Any toll telephone service which originates within a combat zone and is from a member of the Armed Forces of the United
States performing service in such combat zone; provided a certificate, setting forth such facts as the Secretary of the United States Treasury may

|	by regulations prescribe, is furnished to the Person receiving such payment.

|	(4)	No tax shall be imposed under this Section on the amount paid for any Communications Services to the extent that the amount

j	so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company, or radio broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its business.

I	(5)	The installation of any instrument, wire, pole, switchboard, apparatus or equipment as is properly attributable to such

I	installation.

(6)	Amounts paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to such organization. For purposes of this exemption, the term
“nonprofit hospital” means a hospital referred to in Section 170(b)(1)(A)(iii) of the Internal Revenue Code, which is exempt from federal income tax
under Section 501 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code.

(7)	Services or facilities furnished to the government of any state, or any political subdivision thereof.

(8)	Services or facilities paid for by a nonprofit educational organization and furnished to such organization. For purposes of this
subsection, the term "nonprofit educational organization” means an educational organization described in Section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) of the Internal
Revenue Code, which is exempt from income tax under Section 501(a) of the same code. The term also includes a school operated as an activity
of an organization described in Section 501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, which is exempt from income tax under Section 501 (a) of the
same code, if such school normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in
attendance at the place where its educational activities are regularly carried on.

(9)	Items otherwise taxed. Only one payment of tax under this Section shall be required with respect to the tax on any service.

C.	As used in this Section, the term “charges" shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the Service User in exchange for the Communication Services.

D.	Charges for Video Services that are taxable under this Section include, but are not limited to, charges for the following:

(1)	Franchise fees and access fees (PEG), whether designated on the customer’s bill or not;

(2)	Initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of Video Services;

(3)	All programming services (e.g., basic services, premium services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, and
electronic program guide services);

(4)	Equipment leases (e.g., converters, remote devices);

(5)	Service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of service, and special services (e.g., no promotional mail);

and

(6)	The leasing of channel access (e.g., home shopping) to the extent that the Service User is subject to an additional direct or
Indirect charge for programming or communications over the leased channel; provided that, in the absence of evidence of direct payment by the
Service User, the indirect payment of the Service User(s), which is subject to the tax imposed under this Section, shall be deemed to be the lease
payment to the Video Service Supplier by the party leasing the channel access.

E.	The Tax Administrator shall, from time to time, survey the Video Service Suppliers in the City to identify the various components of the
Video Services that are being offered to customers within the City, and the charges therefor. The Tax Administrator may, thereafter, issue and disseminate to
such Video Service Suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components: i) that are necessary or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of
Video Services; or, ii) which currently are, or historically have been, included in a bundled rate for Video Services by a local distribution company. Charges for
such components shall be subject to the tax of subsection A, above.

F.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of Communication Services subject to tax under this Section, any Service User, upon proof
to the Tax Administrator that the Service User owed and has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such Communication Services, shall be
allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of
credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this Section.

G.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this Chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum
contacts" shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and
as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment Any Communication Services used by a Person with a service address
in the City, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty
to collect and remit a tax, under this Chapter. For Communication Services for which there is no Billing Address or primary physical location for the provision of
services, the service address shall mean the point of sale of the services.

H.	The tax on Communication Services imposed by this Section shall be collected from the Service User by the Service Supplier. In the case
of Video Services, the Service User shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk Video Services (e.g., an apartment owner), unless such services are resold
to individual users, in which case the Service User shall be the ultimate purchaser of the Video Services. The amount of tax collected in one (1) Month shall

be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following Month. If a Service
Supplier of Communication Services uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the Service Supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax
Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the Service Supplier to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the possession of
such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/or
remittance of such tax to the City.

I.	The Tax Administrator may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to Service Suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this Section, an administrative ruling identifying those Communication Services that are subject to the tax of subsection A, above. This
administrative ruling shall be consistent with legal nexus rules, regulations, and laws pertaining to Communication Services. To the extent that the Tax
Administrator determines that the tax imposed under this Section shall not be collected in full for any period of time, such a determination falls within the Tax
Administrator’s discretion to settle disputes. The Tax Administrator’s exercise of prosecutorial forbearance under this Section does not constitute a change in
taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750, and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose the tax on Communication
sServices in full as a result of issuing such administrative rulings.

3.36.050	Electricity Users’Tax.

A.	There is hereby Imposed a tax upon every Person using electricity or electrical energy in the City. The tax imposed by this section shall
be at the rate as established in Section 3.36.180 for the charges made for such electricity or energy, and for any supplemental services or other associated
activities directly related to and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the Service Users, which are provided by a Service Supplier to a Service User.

The tax applicable to electrical energy provided by a nonutility supplier shall be determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the Service User
would have incurred if the energy used had been provided by the Electrical Corporation franchised by the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available
from the City. Nonutility Suppliers shall install and maintain an appropriate utility-type metering system which will enable compliance with this Section, or may
arrange another methodology for applying the tax acceptable to the Tax Administrator.

B.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the Service User by any energy Service Supplier or Nonutility Supplier. An energy supplier
providing wheeling services for delivery of electricity through its distribution system shall collect the tax from the Service ser based upon the cost of wheeling the
electricity. The tax on energy provided by self-production or by a Nonutility Supplier shall be collected and remitted in the manner set forth in Section 3.36.080.
Tie amount of tax collected in one Month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, on or before the last day of the following Month; or, at the option of the

9	3*.	ar	sssm&ec moant of tax measured by toe tax billed in the previous Month or upon the payment pattern of the

3 tie Senses Sxc*s? srta^ be renoi8ec.

I As used an *ss Secsor toe srm 'cnarges* sftaf mcArae
‘i-	Energy charges

21	or transmission charges.

5-3?	Merenog charges;

>4'	Stand-by, reserves, firming, ramptog. vocags suppers, regutsbea emergency, or other similar minimum charges for services;

(5i	Customer charges, service estabishmera or reestabishmeot charges, demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power

exchange charges, independent system operator (ISO) charges, siranded investment or competitive transition charges (CTC), trust transfer, amounts
(bond financing charges), franchise fees, franchise surcharges, on are necessary or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service;
and.

(6)	Charges, fees, or surcharges for eieanc services or programs, which are mandated by the California Public Utilities
Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commissior,. wfcetoer or not suer- charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis
on the customer billing.

(7)	The value of any other services, crecfts, property of every and or nature, or other consideration provided by the Service User
in exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision of such eSectncrty.

D.	The Tax Administrator shall, from time to time, survey the electric Service Suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components
tf electric retail service that they commonly provide to residential and ccrnmerctal/todostriai customers in the City, and the charges therefor, including those
4ams that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of provkfing such electric service. The Tax Administrator may, thereafter, issue
and disseminate to such electric Service Suppliers an administrative ruing identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary or common to
toe receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service: or. ii) currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. Unbundled charges for such components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection A, above.

E.	As used in this Section, the term 'using electricity’ shall not include the mere receiving of such electricity by an electric public utility or
governmental agency at a point within the City for resale.

F.	If an electric Service Supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the Service Supplier shall:

j sj provide to the Tax Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the Service
Supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City: and. ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records
r. the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

3.36.060	Tax on cogenerated electricity.

A.	Notwithstanding the provisions in Section 3.36.050, the tax imposed on every Person using cogenerated electrical energy in the City shall be
at the rate specified in Section 3.36.050. The tax applicable to cogenerated electrical energy used on site shall be determined by applying the tax rate to the
equivalent charges the Cogenerator would have incurred if the energy used had been provided by the Electrical Corporation franchised by the city.

B.	The Cogenerator shall install and maintain an appropriate metering system which will enable compliance with this Section.

C.	The tax shall be collected and paid by the Cogenerator under Section 3.36.080 if the Cogenerator consumes the energy. If the Cogenerator sells
j the energy for consumption in the City, the tax will be imposed by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges made for such service the Service User would
1 have incurred if the energy used had been provided by the Electrical Corporation franchised by the City, and shall be collected from the Service User by the

f energy supplier.

!	D. The amount of the tax collected in one Month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following Month.

3.36.070	Gas Users Tax.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every Person using Gas in the City which is transported through a pipeline distribution system or by mobile
transport. The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate as established by Section 3.36.180, for the charges made for such Gas and shall be paid by
the Person using the Gas. The tax applicable to gas provided by Nonutility Suppliers shall be determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges
the Service User would have incurred if the Gas or Gas transportation had been provided by the Gas Corporation franchised by the City. “Charges” as used in
this section shall include: (1) the charge for Gas which is delivered through a Gas pipeline distribution system or by mobile transport; (2) Gas transportation,
delivery and storage charges; (3) demand charges, service charges, customer charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly charges and any other charges
authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; and (4) the value of any other services, credits, property
1 of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the Service User in exchange for the Gas or services related to the delivery of such Gas.
j	B. There shall be excluded from the tax imposed in this Section:

11. Charges made for Gas which is to be resold and delivered through a Gas pipeline distribution system or mobile transport;

2.	Charges made for Gas used by a Cogenerator or as the primary fuel in a fuel cell to generate electricity subject to the tax imposed by Section
3.36.050: and

3.	Charges made for natural gas used in the propulsion of a motor vehicle, as that phrase is defined in the Vehicle Code of the state of California.

C.	Tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the Service User by the energy service supplier. An energy supplier providing transportation
i services for delivery of Gas through a pipeline distribution system shall collect the tax from the Service User based upon the cost of transporting the Gas. The
■ ax on energy provided by self-production or by a Nonutility Supplier shall be collected and remitted in the manner set forth in Section 3.36.080. The amount of
tax collected in one Month shall be,remitted to the Tax Administrator, on or before the last day of the following Month; or, at the option of the Person required
to cottect or remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous Month or upon the payment pattern of the customers of the
Service Supplier, shall be remitted.

D.	The Tax Administrator shall, from time to time, survey the Gas Service Suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of
Gas retail service that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/' industrial customers in the City, and the charges therefor, including those items
are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such Gas service. The Tax Administrator may, thereafter, issue and

ISBseminate to such Gas Service Suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary or common to the receipt,
■ase and enjoyment of Gas service; or, ii) currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for Gas service by a local distribution company
B a dass of retail customers. Unbundled charges for such components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection A, above.

E.	If a Gas Service Supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the Service Supplier shall: i) provide
to fee Tax Aammtratof the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the Service Supplier

to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the
possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

3.36.080	Collection of tax from service users receiving direct purchase of gas or electricity.

A.	Any Service User subject to the tax imposed by Sections 3.36.050 through 3.36.070, who produces electricity or Gas for self-use or who
receives electricity or Gas directly from a Nonutility Supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter or otherwise not having the full tax due on the use of Gas
or electricity in the City directly billed and collected by the Service Supplier, shall report said fact to the Tax Administrator and remit the tax due directly to the
City within thirty days of such use.

B.	The Tax Administrator may require said Service User to identify its Nonutility Supplier and provide, subject to audit, filed tax returns or other
satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity or electricity or Gas used and the price thereof.

3.36.090	Water and sewer users tax.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every Person in the City using water which is delivered through mains or pipes or using sewerage or wastewater
services. The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate established in Section 3.36.180, for the charges made for such water and shall be paid by the
Person paying for such water, sewer or wastewater services.

B.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is computed, charges made for water which is to be resold and
delivered through mains or pipes.

C.	The tax imposed in this Section shall be collected from the Service User by the Person supplying the water or wastewater or sewerage services.

The amount collected in one Month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following Month.

3.36.095 Solid waste disposal users tax.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every Person in the City using waste or refuse collection and disposal services. The tax imposed by this Section
shall be at the rate established in Section 3.36.180, for the charges made for such waste or refuse collection and disposal services and shall be paid by the
Person paying for such refuse collection services.

B.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is computed, charges made tor waste or refuse collection and
disposal services which is to be resold and delivered through mains or pipes.

C.	The tax imposed in this Section shall be collected from the Service User by the Person supplying the waste or refuse collection and disposal
services. The amount collected in one Month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following Month.

3.36.100	Penalty and interest.

A.	Taxes collected from a Service User or owed by a Service User which are not remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the due dates
provided in this Chapter are delinquent. If the Person required to collect and/or remit a tax imposed under this Chapter fails to collect and remit the tax, such
taxes are delinquent. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return may be made on the first regular working day following a Saturday,

Sunday, or legal holiday.

B.	Penalties for delinquency in remittance of any tax collected or any deficiency determination determined by the Tax Administrator shall attach and
be paid by the Person required to collect and remit at the rate of fifteen percent of the total tax collected or imposed herein.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon any Person required to collect and remit taxes under the
provisions of this Chapter for fraud or negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax collected or as recomputed
by the Tax Administrator.

D.	Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this Chapter shall become a part of the tax required to be remitted.

E.	In addition to the penalties imposed in this section, any Person required to collect and/or remit any tax imposed by the provisions of this Chapter
who fails to collect or remit the tax, shall pay interest at the rate of one percent per month, or traction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.

3.36.110	Actions to collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a Service User under the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the Service User to the
City. Any such tax collected from a Service User which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the Person
required to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the Service User. In the event that a Service Supplier required to collect and remit a tax under
the provisions of this Chapter fails to do so in whole or in part, the amount of such unremitted tax shall be deemed a debt owed by the Service Supplier to the
City. Any Person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of
such amount, plus any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the Person's noncompliance with this Chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney’s fees.

3.36.120	Duty to collect—Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this Chapter shall be performed as follows;

A.	Except as otherwise provided by Section 3.36.080 the tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along with the
charges made in accordance with the regular billing practices of the Service Supplier. Where the amount paid by a Service User to a Service Supplier is less
than the full amount of the utility charge and tax which has accrued tor the billing period, such amount and any subsequent payments by a Service user shall be
applied to the utility charge first until such charge has been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be applied to taxes due. In those cases where a Service
User has notified the Service Supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed on said utility charges, Section 3.36.140(C) will apply.

B.	The duty to collect tax from a Service User shall commence with the beginning of the first full regular billing period applicable to the Service User
where all charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where a Person receives more than one billing, one or
more being tor different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing.

3.36.130	Additional power and duties of Tax Administrator.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this Chapter.

B.	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations not inconsistent with provisions of this Chapter for the purpose of
carrying out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such administrative rules and regulations shall be on

I



1b .4s3e»w*a*r5 cfice

S yp0s a proper sr«os*sng of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to
2r<'	os srs Chapter. and thereby: i) conform to the billing procedures of a particular Service Supplier or Service User, so long

s -bsuS * the cosectm of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter; or ii) to avoid a hardship where the
costs af scSeraofi and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator’s
ana s «oksok by fse Tax Administrator or the City at any time. Such administrative agreements fail within the Tax Administrator’s discretion to settle
i The- Tax AdhsnssErators exercise of prosecutorial forbearance under this Chapter does not constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of

Code Section 53750, and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose any tax owed under this Chapter in full as a result of entering into
such aamsfcstrafeve agreements.

0. The Tax Administrator shall be authorized to determine the eligibility of any Person who asserts a right to exemption from or a refund of a
imposed by this Chapter.

3.36.140	Assessment—Administrative remedy.

A.	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not remitted by a Person required to remit.

B.	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a Service User has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by him from the
amounts remitted to a Service Supplier, or that a Service User has failed to pay the amount of the tax for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, or whenever
t»Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she may relieve the Service Supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due under this Chapter

! certain named Service Users tor specified billing periods. The Service Supplier shall provide the City with the names and addresses of such Service Users
a«t the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of this Chapter.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the Service User that he or she has assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated
penods and demand payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the Service User by handing it to him or her personally or by deposit of the notice
* tne United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the Service User at the address to which billing was made by the Service Supplier; or should
te Service User have changed his or her address, to his or her last known address. If a Service User fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen
i15) days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, which shall be the date of mailing if service is not accomplished in person, a penalty of
fsenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, along with interest at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (%%)
per Month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until paid, but
not less than Five Dollars ($5.00),

C.	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not paid or remitted by a Service User required to pay or remit. A notice of the
assessment which shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes and penalties imposed and the time and place when such assessment shall be submitted to the
City Council for confirmation or modification. The Tax Administrator shall mail a copy of such notice to the Service Supplier and Service User at least ten (10)
days prior to the date of the hearing and shall post such notice for at least five (5) continuous days prior to the date of the hearing in a conspicuous place freely
accessible to the public at large. Any interested party having any objections may appear and be heard at the hearing provided his or her objection is filed in
writing with the Tax Administrator prior to the time set for the hearing. At the time fixed for considering said assessment, the City Council shall hear the same
together with any objection filed regarding aforesaid and thereupon may confirm or modify said assessment by motion.

*	3.36.150	Records.

IA. It shall be the duty of every Person required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for
a period of at least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of
and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator’s designated representative, shall have the right to inspect
at all reasonable times.

B. If any Person subject to record-keeping under this Section unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator’s
designated representative, access to such records, the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator’s designated representative, may impose a penalty of five
hundred dollars ($500) on such Person for each day following the initial date that the Person refuses to provide such access. This penalty shall be in addition to
any other penalty imposed under this Chapter.

3.36.160	Refunds.

A. Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
Tax Administrator under this Chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this Section.

B. The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
| received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter, provided that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless the claimant or his or her
I guardian, conservator, executor or administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal
I collection of said tax, Such claim must clearly establish claimant’s right to the refund by written records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit

I the tiling of a claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers. The submission of a written claim, which is acted upon by the City Council, shall be a prerequisite
so a suit thereon. The City Council shall act upon the refund claim within the time period set forth in Government Code Section 912.4. If the City Council fails or
•efuses to act on a refund claim within the time prescribed by Government Code Section 912.4, the claim shall be deemed to be rejected by the City Council on
the last day of the period within which the City Council was required to act upon the claim as provided in Government Code Section 912.4.

C.	It is the intent of the City Council that the one year written claim requirement of this section be given retroactive effect; provided, however,
drat any claims which arose prior to the commencement of the one year claims period of this Section, and which are not otherwise barred by a then-applicable
statute of limitations or claims procedure, must be filed with the Tax Administrator as provided in this subsection within ninety (90) days following the effective
dale of this Section.

D.	Notwithstanding other provisions of this Section, whenever a Service Supplier, pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities
Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, makes a refund to Service Users of charges for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to this Chapter
op die amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded to Service Users, and the Service Supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for such refunded
tones against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly return.

3.36.170	Termination or suspension of utility users tax.

The Service Supplier shall, upon notification, terminate or suspend any utility user tax commencing with the first full billing period which occurs after
Jhe e&ec&te skate of such action by the city council.

3.36.180	Utility users tax rate.

(A)	The taxes imposed by this Chapter shall be at the rate of eight (8) percent commencing on July 1,2008, at the rate of ten (10) percent
commencing on July 1,2009, and at the rate of twelve (12) percent commencing on July 1,2010, unless a lesser rate is established by the city council on or
before August 1 st of any year.

(B)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (A) of this Section and unless otherwise extended by the voters, the tax rate applicable to
charges for utilities subject to tax under this Ordinance shall be diminished to ten (10) percent on June 30,2014. This rate shall be subsequently diminished t<
eight (8) percent on June 30,2015, and further diminished to the rate in existence prior to adoption of this ordinance of six (6) percent on June 30,2016.

3.36.190	Bundling taxable and non-taxable charges.

If a non-taxable service and a taxable service are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the
Service Supplier or taxpayer reasonably identifies actual charges not subject to the utility users tax based upon books and records that are kept in the regular
course of business, in a manner consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. The Service Supplier or Taxpayer has the burden of proving the
proper apportionment of taxable and nontaxabie charges.

3,36.200	Exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon:

(1)	Any Person or service if imposition of such tax upon that Person or service would be in violation of a federal or California
statute, the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The City;

(3)	Any individual who uses any utility subject to tax under this Ordinance in or upon any premises occupied by a household ot
which that individual is a member and that qualifies as “low income” as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s annu
survey of income limits for the Public Housing and Section 8 Programs.

B.	The exemptions granted by this Section shall not eliminate the duty of the Service Supplier from collecting taxes from such exempt
individuals, or the duty of such exempt Individuals from paying such taxes to the Service Supplier; unless an exemption is applied for by the Service User and
granted in accordance with the provisions of this Section.

C.	Any Service User exempt from the taxes imposed by this Chapter because of the provisions of subsection A, above, may file an
application with the Tax Administrator for an exemption. Such application shall be made upon a form supplied by the Tax Administrator; and shall state those
facts, declared under oath, which qualify the applicant for an exemption.

D.	The Tax Administrator shall review all such applications, and shall certify as exempt those applicants determined to qualify therefor; and
shall notify all Service Suppliers affected that such exemptions have been approved. For each exemption, the following information shall be transmitted to the
Service Supplier:

(1)	Name of exempt applicant;

(2)	Account number shown on utility bill;

(3)	Address to which exempt service is being supplied; and

(4)	Any other information as may be necessary for the Service Supplier to remove the exempt Service User from its tax billing

procedure.

E.	Upon receipt of such notice, the Service Supplier shall not be required to continue to bill any further tax imposed by this Chapter from
such exempt Service User, until further notice by the Tax Administrator is given. The Service Supplier shall eliminate such exempt Service User from its tax
billing procedure no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of such notice from the Tax Administrator.

F.	All exemptions shall continue and be renewed automatically by the Tax Administrator, so long as the prerequisite facts supporting the
initial qualification for exemption shall continue; provided, however, that the exemption shall automatically terminate with any change in the service address oi
residence of the exempt individual; further provided such individual may nevertheless apply for a new exemption with each change of address or residence.

G.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and right to demand evidence of continued eligibility of a Service User for exemption under
the provisions of this Section, Such evidence may include, but need not be limited to, copies of business records, letters or statements from the Social Secur
Administration, copies of income tax returns, and such other evidence concerning the Service User or other members of his or her household as may tend to
prove or disprove such eligibility. Failure to provide such evidence as is within the control of a Service User to so provide, either directly by him or by his cons
or the consent of a member of his or her household when such evidence is requested of the Service User in writing by the Tax Administrator, shall be ground;
for the immediate discontinuance of the Service User’s eligibility for exemption under the provisions of this Section. Evidence provided to the Tax Administrat
upon request, or voluntarily provided by the Service User without request, may not be used against such Service User as evidence of violation of the proviso
of this Section; such evidence may only be used as grounds for termination of the exemption herein provided.

H.	Any individual exempt from the tax shall notify the Tax Administrator within ten (10) days of any change in fact or circumstance which
might disqualify said individual from receiving such exemption. It shall be a misdemeanor for any Person to knowingly receive the benefits of the exemptions
provided by this Section, when the basis for such exemption either does not exist or ceases to exist.

I.	Notwithstanding any of the provisions hereof, any Service Supplier who determines by any means that a new or nonexempt Service Us
is receiving service through a meter or connection exempt by virtue of an exemption issued to a previous user or exempt user of the same meter or connectk
such Service Supplier shall immediately notify the Tax Administrator of such fact; and the Tax Administrator shall conduct an investigation to ascertain wheths
or not the provisions of this Section have been complied with, and where appropriate, order the Service Supplier to commence collecting the tax from the
nonexempt Service User.

J.	Any individual entitled to be exempt from the taxes imposed by this Chapter, who used communication, electric, Gas, or water services
and paid more than $3.00 in such taxes, may, during the calendar year following such payment, apply for a refund thereof on forms provided by the Tax
Administrator. Refund applications shall contain a declaration of those facts, under oath, which qualify the applicant for a refund, and shall be accompanied
by the customer’s bis showing the amount of such taxes billed by Service Supplier during the preceding calendar year. Refund claims may be filed by an
individual who used communication, electric, Gas, or water services and paid the taxes prescribed by this Chapter either directly or indirectly to the ‘Service
Used rather than the Service Supplier. In the event the applicant has lost or destroyed any relevant billings or statements showing the amount of tax paid, or
if the applicant indirectly paid such taxes in conjunction with the occupation of premises without receiving a specific billing therefor from the Service User, the
maximum refund shall be $48.00, or $4.00 for each full Month of services received by the applicant, whichever is less.

K.	If the Tax Administrator determines that an application for exemption is faulty, or that the applicant has failed to truthfully set forth such
facts, the application for the exemption shall be denied in writing to the applicant. The applicant shall thereafter have a right to file an amended application fc
exemption; or to appeal the Tax Administrator’s decision to the City Manager within a 10-day period after the mailing date of the Tax Administrator’s rejection.

**0% Hmage *mm fee	- Gty Attorney. and shall render a final determination on such appeal.

L Jew- *&jsat of fee Mmrnstwr, a	ortebtog	agent	shaSprcvide	a	list	of	the	names	and	addresses	of	those

wee?. icsaslBgs^aiHgsscsrcK. m&aemec	tax	imposed	under	this Chapter.

13USi ftapatotag «d fwaieSBg.

£acp Pgsas saawat By fee Oopeer to rant a tax shal Sle a rmm	toe Tax Adnwvsirakx on forms approved by the Tax Administrator on or

fee toe oae 7>*e sal asaR of fee tea owed sftaf be nctodesd fee rawr. and §ted wife fee Tax Actininistrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized
sxr. torfeer rtmator- as near she deems necessary » property daafene t fee tat here imposed is bang levied and collected in accordance with
Seisms arc rerafearces sit due mmedwtety upon cessation c< auseess tor any reason. Pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code §
a* Tax Aernreeator, and ife agents. shai maintain such Stog rsa/ns as confcfenaaf tototynaSoa and not subject to the Public Records Act.

3.36.220	No injunction or wrtt of mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equtabte process sbal issue in any sut action. or proceeding in any court against this City or
any officer of fee City to prevent or enjoin the coflection under fee Chaser of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and/or remitted.

3.36.230 Oversight Committee.

A six (6) member citizen oversight committee is hereby established, to oe comprised of fee City Treasurer plus five (5) members of the public,
each councilmember making one appointment. The oversight committee shall review and make recommendations concerning the audit and appropriate
r-ce- d ture of the funds collected and/or remitted in accordance with this Chapter.

Section 3.36.240 Amendment or repeal.

Taxes imposed by this Chapter may be decreased, repealed or amended by the City Council, but may not be increased without a vote of the people
as required in California Constitution Article XIIIC and California Government Code Section 53750(h).

Section 2. Majority Approval. This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon (50% +1) and shall go
: effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council.

Sections, Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable
% a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and
efiect. The people of the City of Sierra Madre hereby declare that they would have adopted each section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance,
^respective of the fact that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Chapter be declared invalid or unenforceable and, to that
end. the provisions of this Ordinance are severable.

Section 4. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance by signing where indicated below.

