Lo3U2-5'<Va- Uf\\(7Y> i( \xv *;

COUNTY

OF

KERN

Sample Ballot

& Voter Information Pamphlet

PRESIDENTIAL
GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2008

POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR VOTE BY MAIL BALLOT ENCLOSED

pARA OBTENERINEORMACION Y
*Los ^esultados LA NOCHE DE LAS!
TLECCIONES EN EL INTERNET:

TV. - KGOV CHANNEL 16
•INTERNET*

'www.co.kern.ca.us/elections or '
www.sos.ca.gov •

Muestra de Balota

ELECCION GENERAL
PRESIDENCIAL

MARTES, 4 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 2008

,SFC.,

LAS ELECCIONES EMPIEZAN A LAS 7 A.M. YTERMINAN A LAS 8 P.M.

LLIGAR DONDE DEBE USTED VOTAR APARECE EN LA CUBIERTA POSTERIOR

■Z.IS0: SOLICITUD PARA VOTAR POR BALOTA POR CORREO INCLUIDA

^130

15-FC-li08

PROPOSITION 4. WAITING PERIOD AND PARENTAL
NOTIFICATION BEFORE TERMINATION OF MINOR’S
PREGNANCY. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Changes California Constitution,
prohibiting abortion for unemancipated minor until 48
hours after physician notifies minor’s parent, legal
guardian, or, in limited cases, substitute adult relative.
Provides an exception for medical emergency or parental
waiver. Fiscal Impact: Potential.unknown net state costs
of several million dollars annually for health and social
services programs, court administration, and state health
agency administration combined.

o

Yes

o

No

PROPOSITION 5. NONVIOLENT DRUG OFFENSES.
SENTENCING, PAROLE AND REHABILITATION.
INITIATIVE STATUTE. Allocates $460,000,000 annually
to improve and expand treatment programs. Limits court
authority to incarcerate offenders who commit certain drag
crimes, break drug trealment rules or violate parole.

Fiscal impact: Increased state costs potentially exceeding
$1 billion annually primarily for expansion of offender
treatment programs. State savings potentially exceeding
$1 billion annually on corrections operations. Net one-
time state prison capital outlay savings potentially
exceeding $2.5 billion.

o

Yes

o

No

PROPOSITION 6. POLICE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
FUNDING. CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND LAWS.
INITIATIVE STATUTE. Requires minimum of
$965,000,000 of state funding each year for police and
local law enforcement. Makes approximately 30 revisions
to California criminal law. Fiscal Impact Increased net
state costs exceeding $500 million annually due to
increasing spending on criminal justice programs to at
least $965 million and for corrections operating costs.
Potential one-time state prison capital outlay costs
exceeding $500 million.

O

Yes

o

No

PROPOSITION 7. RENEWABLE ENERGY
GENERATION. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Requires
government-owned utilities to generate 20% of their
electricity from renewable energy by 2010, a standard
currently applicable to private electrical corporations.
Raises requirement for all utilities to 40% by 2020 and
50% by 2025. Fiscal Impact: Increased state
administrative costs up to $3.4 million annually, paid by
fees. Unknown impact on state and local government
costs and revenues due to the measure’s uncertain impact
on retail electricity rates.

o Yes

oNo

PROPOSITION 8. ELIMINATES RIGHT OF SAME-SEX
COUPLES TO MARRY. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Changes California Constitution to
eliminate the right of same-sex couples to marry.

Provides that only marriage between a man and a woman
is valid or recognized in California. Fiscal Impact: Over
next few years, potential revenue loss, mainly sales taxes,
totaling in the several tens of millions of dollars, to state
and local governments, in the long run, likely little fiscal
impact on state and local governments.

PROPOSITION 9. CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM.
VICTIMS’ RIGHTS. PAROLE. INfFIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE.

Requires notification to victim and opportunity for input
during phases of criminal justice process, including bail,
pleas, sentencing and parole. Establishes victim safety as
consideration for bail or parole. Fiscal Impact: Potential
loss of state savings on prison operations and increased
county jail costs amounting to hundreds of millions of
dollars annually. Potential net savings in the low tens of
millions of dollars annually on parole procedures.

oYes oNo

PROPOSITION 10. ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES
AND RENEWABLE ENERGY. BONDS. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Authorizes $5 billion in bonds paid from state's
General Fund, to help consumers and others purchase
certain vehicles, and to fund research in renewable energy
and alternative fuel vehicles. Fiscal Impact: State cost of
about $10 billion over 30 years to repay bonds. Increased
state and local revenues, potentially totaling several tens
of millions of dollars through 2019. Potential state
administrative costs up to about $10 million annually.

Yes	No

PROPOSITION 11. REDISTRICTING. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE.

Changes authority for establishing state office boundaries
from elected representatives to commission. Establishes
multilevel process to select commissioners from registered
voter pool. Commission comprised of Democrats,
Republicans, and representatives of neither party. Fiscal
Impact: Potential increase in state redistricting costs once
every ten years due to two entities performing redistricting.
Any increase in costs probably would not be significant.

O Yes	O	No

PROPOSITION 12. VETERANS’ BOND ACT OF 2008.

This act provides for a bond issue of nine hundred million
dollars ($900,000,000} to provide farm and home aid for
California veterans. Fiscal Impact: Costs of about $1.8
billion to pay off both the principal ($900 million} and
interest {$856 million) on the bonds; costs paid by
participating veterans. Average payment for principal and
interest of about $59 million per .year for 30 years.

Yes	No

LAKESIDE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOND MEASURE I

To improve the local quality of education, student learning
and safety in neighborhood schools, shall Lakeside Union
School District upgrade classroom computers, technology,
science space, and equipment, improve school
safety/security, repair/replace deteriorated roofs,
plumbing, lighting, electrical and building systems, and
replace the existing special tax, by issuing $22,500,000 in
bonds at legal rates, qualifying for State matching funds,
with mandatory audits, independent citizens' oversight, no
administrator salaries, and all funds benefiting Lakeside
and Suburu School communities?

q Bonds Yes	Bonds	No

oYes

oNo

BACK Card 167 RptPct 294-294 "0000294" English

15-sb167BACK-E

F5sb167BA"KE

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
LAKESIDE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE I

A “Yes” vote by at least fifty five percent (55%) of the voters voting on this measure
will authorize the issuance and sale of bonds for the benefit of the Lakeside Union
School District (“District”) in an amount up to twenty two million five hundred thou-
sand dollars ($22,500,000).

Proceeds from the sale of these school bonds may only be used for the construc-
tion, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or replacement of school facilities, including
the furnishing and equipping of school facilities, or the acquisition or lease of real
property for school facilities. As required by law, the District has listed the specific
projects to be funded, in whole or in part, by the bonds. The list of projects is
printed in the sample ballot. Approval of the bond measure does not guarantee
that the listed projects will be fully funded.

The District will conduct an annual independent performance audit, in order to en-
sure that the bond proceeds have been expended only on the specific projects
listed, and an annual independent financial audit of the bond proceeds until all of
those funds have been expended. In addition, the District’s Board of Trustees will
appoint an independent citizens’ oversight committee to inform the public con-
cerning the expenditure of bond revenues.

The bond debt will be a general obligation of the District and will be financed by
property taxes levied annually on taxable property located within the District,
based on the property’s value, in an amount necessary to pay the annual debt
obligation.

The interest rate will be established at the time of the sale of the bonds and will de-
pend on prevailing market rates. As a matter of law, that rate cannot exceed
twelve percent (12%) per annum and shall mature and be paid no later than forty
(40) years following their date of issuance. In the District’s Tax Rate Statement, it
has provided its best estimate of the tax rates which will be applied to pay the debt
at various intervals during the life of the bonds.

This wording applies to Measure I:

Approval of Measure I does not guarantee (hat the proposed project or projects in
the Lakeside Union School District that are the subject of bonds under Measure I
will be funded beyond the local revenues generated by Measure 1. The school dis-
trict’s proposal for the project or projects may assume the receipt of matching
state funds, which could be subject to appropriation by the Legislature or approval
of a statewide bond measure.

This wording applies to Measure I:

This is an impartial analysis of Measure I. If you want a copy of the District’s reso-
lution ordering the election to vote on Measure I, please call Kern County Elec-
tions at (661) 868-3590 or 1 -800-452-8683 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to
you.

IMPMS-I

TAX RATE STATEMENT
MEASURE I

By Superintendent of Lakeside Union School District

An election will be held in the Lakeside Union School District (the “District”) on No-
vember 4,2008, to authorize the sale of up to $22,500,000 in bonds of the District
to finance school facilities as described in the proposition. If the bonds are ap-
proved, the District expects to sell the bonds in several series. Principal and inter-
est on the bonds will be payable from the proceeds of tax levies made upon the ■
taxable property in the District. The following information is provided in compli-
ance with Sections 9400-9404 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

1.	The best estimate of the tax which would be required to be levied to fund this
bond issue during the first fiscal year after the sale of the first series of bonds, /
based on estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this state-
ment, is $27.92 per $100,000 of assessed valuation in fiscal year 2009-10.

2.	The best estimate of the tax rate which would be required to be levied to fund
this bond issue during the first fiscal year after the sale of the last series of bonds,
based on estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this state-
ment, is $27.91 per $100,000 of assessed valuation in fiscal year 2019-20.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate which would be required to be levied to
fund this bond issue, based on estimated assessed valuations available at the
time of filing of this statement, is $28.10 per $100,000 of assessed valuation in fis-
cal year 2041-42.

Voters should note that the estimated tax rates are based on the assessed value
of taxable property on the official tax rolls of the respective counties, ool on the
property's market value. In addition, taxpayers eligible for a property tax exemp-
tion, such as the homeowner’s exemption, will be taxed at a lower effective tax
rate than described above. Certain taxpayers may also be eligible to postpone
payment of taxes. Property owners should consult their own property tax bills and
tax advisors to determine their property’s assessed value and any applicable tax
exemptions.

Attention of all voters is direeled to the fact that the foregoing information is based
upon the District’s projections and estimates only, which are not binding upon the
District. The actual tax rates and the years in which they will apply may vary for
those presently estimated, due to variations from these estimates in the timing of
bond sales, the amount of bonds sold and market interest rates at the time of each
sale, and actual assessed valuations over the term of repayment of the bonds.

The dates of sale and the amount of bonds sold at any given time will be deter-
mined by the District based on the need for construction funds and other factors,
including the legal limitations on bonds approved by a 55% vote. The actual inter-
est rates at which the bonds will bo sold will depend on the bond market at the time
of each sale. Actual future assessed valuation will depend upon the amount and
value of taxable property within the District as determined by the County Assessor
in the annual assessment and the equalization process.

TAXRAtEI



15-29

1529

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE!

LAKESIDE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

Our community has a tradition of supporting quality education. The success of our
local schools is due, in large part, to our exceptional teachers, quality education
programs and the support ourschools receive from parents and the community.

But Lakeside and Suburu school facilities need attention. They are aging
(Lakeside School is nearly 70 years old) and need significant upgrades to provide
a safe and modern learning environment for children.

Measure I authorizes two critically important things.

First, Measure 1 authorizes essential school facility upgrades at Lakeside and
Suburu Schools.

Measure I will:

Upgrade school technology, equipment, multi-media capabilities and access to
the Internet

Improve science instructional space and equipment to enhance middle school
science education

Repair/replace deteriorated roofs, building foundations, walls, floors, plumbing,
lighting, heating, ventilation, air-conditioning and electrical systems
Modernize outdated classrooms, libraries and school buildings
Provide safety upgrades-lighting, fencing, smoke detectors, alarms, sprinklers,
pick-up and drop-off zones, playground equipment and security systems

Second. Measure I authorizes REPLACING existing taxes and fees that home-
owners are currently paying. This will release school district General Fund monies
for essential classroom needs, including attracting and retaining quality teachers.
Teacher compensation currently comprises 60% of the school district’s budget.

Approximately 79% of district homeowners will experience an overall DE-
CREASE in property taxes if Measure I passes.

ALL Measure I funds must stay in our community to benefit local schools.

tors’ salaries. An Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee and mandatory au-
dits will ensure that Measure I money is spent properly.

Parents, teachers, civic leaders and citizens throughout our Lakeside community
support Measure I.

Take a positive step to improve the local quality of education AND protect property
values.

Please VOTE YES on Measure I.

s/Margo Ogden, 3rd Grade Teacher - Suburu School
s/Andrea Dewar, Parent, School Volunteer
s/Dana Tjaarda, Local Business Owner
s/Frank Fugitt, Farmer, 73-year Resident
s/Jerry Caneta, Parent, High School Educator

[. NO funds can be used for administra-

ARGMEAS-I

15-30



1530

DISCLAIMER: All documents are printed exactly as submitted to the Elections Office.

EXHIBIT A
BALLOT MEASURE I
LAKESIDE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

The District intends to use the proceeds of the Bonds to finance or refinance some or all of the below-listed projects, upon voter

approval:

The general obligation bond proceeds of the Lakeside Union School District would be used to ensure there is sufficient safety, security and
technology at District schools through the specified capital improvements described herein, which the District intends to acquire, replace, renovate,
construct furnish, equip and otherwise improve District facilities to meet educational needs, if authorized by the voters. Depending upon construction
costs, the availability of State matching funds and other factors, the Projects listed below may be completed in an order different from that presented here,
and there may not be sufficient bond proceeds to fund each and every Project shown. The prepayment of the lease obligations described below will permit
the District to dissolve its existing Mello-Roos Community Facilities District and eliminate the related Special Tax.

Lakeside School

Add new educational technology, equipment and multimedia capability in classrooms and the school library to enhance student instruction
Provide safety upgrades including security lighting, fencing, smoke detectors, fire alarms, sprinklers, and security systems
Reconfigure/improve science instructional and lab space, and add equipment to enhance middle school science education instruction
Repair/upgrade deteriorated roofs, plumbing/restrooms lighting, electrical and building systems
Repair/upgrade/improve 67-year old school building foundations and exteriors
Remodel/modernize aging school library

install/replace walls, doors, windows, roofs and floors for increased student safety

Modernize 67-year old school multi-purpose auditorium for enhanced large group instruction, assembly capability and school use
Repair/replace deteriorating student lockers for increased student security
Replace outdated children's playground equipment for improved safety
Upgrade/im prove the school's physical education infrastructure

Suburu School

Add new educational technology, equipment and multimedia capability in classrooms and the school library to enhance student instruction

Reconfigure/expand school parking lot and pick-up/drop-off zones for improved safety

Provide safety upgrades including security lighting, fencing, smoke detectors, and security systems

Install covered walkways for improved safety, security and protection during unfavorable weather

Improve or upgrade playground equipment

Upgrade/improve the school's physical education infrastructure

District-wide:

Upgrade electrical capacity, technology infrastructure, and communications systems

Repair/replace deteriorated plumbing/restrooms, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems to increase energy-efficiency and reduce
operating costs

Pay/pre-pay/retire certain lease obligations of the District

Phase-one planning/development costs for new schools to accommodate projected growth

AT SITES WHERE RENOVATION, MAJOR REPAIRS AND/OR NEW CONSTRUCTION IS UNDERTAKEN

Remove hazardous materials (asbestos, lead, mold, mildew, etc.) where necessary

Address unforeseen conditions revealed by construction/modernization (e.g. plumbing, or gas line breaks, dry rot, seismic structural, etc.)
Improve schools as required to comply with existing building codes, including the Field Act, and access requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act

Provide adequate furniture and equipment for all classrooms, and spaces to be newly constructed or reconstructed, including classroom
technology, computer and science equipment, and book storage, and replacement of worn/broken/out-of-date furniture and equipment
Demolition of existing buildings to be replaced with up-to-date facilities

Acquisition of any of the facilities on the Project List through temporary lease or lease-purchase arrangements, or execution of purchase
options under a lease for any of these authorized facilities

Necessary site acquisition and preparation/restoration in connection with new construction, renovation or remodeling, including ingress and
egress, removing, replacing, or installing irrigation, utility lines, trees and landscaping, relocating fire access roads, and acquiring any
necessary easements, licenses, or rights of way to property

Replacement construction if Board of Trustees determines that replacement is more economical than rehabilitation/renovation of existing
classrooms

Provide temporary (interim) classrooms and other school facilities as needed to accommodate students and school functions displaced during
construction

15-31

1531