CITY OF LA MESA
Proposition L

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROP L

LA MESA VITAL CITY SERVICES MEASURE. To maintain essential City services
including natural disaster response/preparedness programs; youth anti-gang/anti-drug
prevention; retaining quality firefighters/paramedics and police officers; increasing
street paving/pothole repair; enhancing trolley station security; maintaining the senior
community center; after school tutoring and recreation programs; and other general
services shall the City sales tax be increased by three-quarters of a cent, requiring
annual audits, public expenditure reports, with 20 year expiration?

j	This	proposition	requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%)

of the voters voting on the proposition.

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments and rebuttals.

I	CITY	ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Ballot Proposition "L" would raise revenue for general purposes for the City of La Mesa by
authorizing a three-quarter percent transaction and use tax (commonly referred to as a "sales
tax") within the City of La Mesa. The three-quarters of one percent tax would be paid in addition
to current sales taxes and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
I existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council to levy a
/ transaction and use tax at such a rate, provided the tax is approved by a majority of the voters
I voting in an election on that issue. If approved by a majority of the voters, the tax would go into
| effect April 1, 2009 (the "Operative Date").

I Proposition L provides that the three-quarters of one percent sales tax is to be used to "maintain
essential City services." Because the tax would be a "general tax," the tax revenue would go into
the City's general fund and could be used for any legal municipal purpose. The City would not be
legally bound to use this tax revenue for any special purpose or for any specifically identified
special services, facilities or programs. Under ^existing law, food purchased as groceries and
I prescription medications are exempt from California "sales tax” and therefore those items would
not be taxed under Proposition L.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by Proposition "L" would expire 20 years from the Operative
Date, unless the City Council prior to that date determines that the levy and collection of the tax is
j no longer necessary, in which case the City Council has the authority to reduce the rate of tax or
terminate the imposition of the tax.

| Glenn Sabine
:	City Attorney

N SD 465-043

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

Protect La Mesa's Safety - Vote YES on L.

Cities throughout the San Diego area are getting tough with gangs. Proposition L allows
recruiting and retaining police officers needed to keep gangs out of La Mesa and expand gang
prevention programs.

Since 1990, the State has taken over $16 Million in local revenues from La Mesa. Now the State
faces multi-billion dollar deficits and continues to threaten taking additional funds from cities that
will force La Mesa to cut essential services. PROTECT YOUR ESSENTIAL SERVICES - YES

on L.

Without Proposition L La Mesa will be forced to make cuts to all services, including police
officers, firefighters and paramedics.

YES on L ensures La Mesa can attract and retain quality firefighters and police officers.

YES on L improves the City's ability to respond effectively to natural disasters.

YES on L enhances security at trolley stations, preventing robberies, assaults and random crimes
and robberies in our City.

YES on L improves youth anti-drug and gang prevention programs, and maintains the senior
center and other important community facilities.

YES on L takes back LOCAL CONTROL - revenue will be required to stay in La Mesa for
essential services including police, fire, 911 services, street repairs and parks. It cannot be
taken by Sacramento politicians.

YES on L is fiscally responsible and will EXPIRE IN 20 YEARS. It requires independent annual
audits available for public review. Prescription medications and food purchased as groceries
are exempt from Proposition L.

YES on L protects your health and safety, preventing devastating cuts to services. VOTE
LOCAL - find Proposition L on your ballot and VOTE YES.

Proposition L will keep local funds in La Mesa to benefit La Mesa citizens for a safe
community serving YOUR needs. VOTE YES ON L.

HELEN GIVENS
La Mesa Resident

ERIC DANNEL

President, La Mesa Firefighters Association

KELLEY WIEBOLDT
La Mesa Business Owner

TIM COOK

President, La Mesa Police Officers Association

MILICA MAKARIC
La Mesa Business Owner

N SD 465-044

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

VOTE "NO ON L" TO STOP POLITICAL TRICKERY.

Politicians and city administrators are trying to fool taxpayers.

City Councilmembers put "L” on the ballot but now are afraid to sign their names — so they use
police and fire union leaders as "front men" to promote their 20- year tax plan.

»	"L"	does not designate one cent to fight gangs - not a penny for police, fire, or

disasters. Prop L's general fund tax increase can be spent on anything the politicians
want for 20 years.

■	They spotlight "hot-button" police and fire items to pretend Prop L is a public safety tax.
That is untrue - “L" Is just another general tax increase, pure and simple.

■	"L"	was created by political consultants to please public employee unions. The

unions love "L", because it creates a bigger general fund to give unions everything
they want.

IF "L" WINS, POLITICIANS CAN USE THE MONEY HOWEVER THEY WANT.

Nothing in "L" ensures that any of the money gets spent on safety services, it would be equally
true to say that...

■	"L"	allows your taxes to be used for international airline trips and councilmember

stays at resort hotels.

•	"L"	allows every city councilman and city bureaucrat to get deluxe new office furniture

and a luxurious City Hall.

»	"L"	permits La Mesa to continue some of the most lavish union pensions in

California,

SAY "NO" TO" DIRTY TRICKS ON TAXPAYERS. PLEASE VOTE "NO ON t."

RICHARD RIDER
San Diego Tax Fighters
Chairman

TONY KRVARIC

Republican Party of San Diego County
Chairman

Michael McDowell

San Diego County Taxpayers Association
Vice Chair

MIKE HANSEN
Grossmont Shopping Center
General Manager

KEVIN GEORGE
La Mesa Resident/Business Owner

PR-09HO-3

N SD 465-045

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION L

SHAME ON THE CITY COUNCIL FOR TRYING TO FOOL TAXPAYERS.

Prop L pretends to be a tax primarily for fire and police protection.

That is false; Prop L is a smokescreen. NOT ONE CENT in Prop L is earmarked for public safety.

All Prop L money goes into the City General Fund so politicians and bureaucrats can spend it
however they want.

■	Prop L is disguised as more support for public safety. THE TRUE REASON FOR PROP L
IS THAT BLOATED SALARIES AND BENEFITS NOW EAT UP APPROXIMATELY 75% OF
EVERY GENERAL FUND DOLLAR.

The City Council has failed to keep spending in line with revenues. Annually, they dip into the
City's emergency reserve to pay current expenses. This is mostly because La Mesa has a Rolls
Rovce City employee pension plan. Employees don't contribute a penny to their guaranteed City
pensions; you pay it all.

PROP L GIVES LA MESA THE SECOND HIGHEST TAX RATE IN THE COUNTY.

Remember, Prop L's tax hike is in addition to the proposed County fire tax, and any statewide
sales tax hike.

■	High taxes in La Mesa will add to the cost of gasoline.

■	Prop L also hurts local stores, driving retail purchases away from La Mesa to cities that

charge lower sales taxes.

La Mesa city council and city administrators have already spent more than $100,000 of vour tax
dollars on political consultants, surveys and "informational mailers" to develop “poll tested"
promises, inducing voters to support another tax increase.

La Mesa voters shouldn't be bullied into higher taxes by politicians who prey on your genuine
concerns for safety services and other vital needs.

Please vote No on L to prevent higher taxes in La Mesa and to tell politicians that you resent
efforts to fool you about how Prop L money will be spent.

www.NoLaMesaSalesTax.org

JOHN O'NEILL

San Diego County Taxpayers Association
Chairman

THE HONORABLE JOEL ANDERSON
California State Assemblyman

JAY LaSUER

Former Assemblyman/Councilmember

BILL BABER

La Mesa Homeowner/Taxpayer

PETER CUTHBERT
La Mesa Homeowner

N SD 465-046

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Don't be misled by opponents! Save Our Public Safety Services - Vote YES on L.

FACT: Measure L was placed on the ballot only after receiving input from almost 2000 residents
who asked the City to protect essential services.

FACT: La Mesa Police Officers and Firefighters are among the lowest paid in the County. We
already have problems recruiting and retaining a skilled, well-trained police force.

FACT: Without YES on L. 12 Police Officers. 9 Firefighters and 1 Fire Station will need to
be cut

YES on L keeps firefighters and paramedics ready to respond to emergencies while maintaining
rapid response times.

YES on L fights the sharp increase in robberies, auto thefts, burglaries and violent crime in La Mesa.

YES on L recruits and retains the police officers we need to keep crime and gangs out of La Mesa.

Many California cities have passed measures like YES on L to protect and maintain their local
public safety and community services, and there has been no negative impact on local
businesses.

YES on L gives La Mesa residents LOCAL CONTROL over funding. Every cent is required to be
spent in La Mesa to protect your safety and community services. NO funds can be taken by
Sacramento to balance the State's budget deficit.

YES on L protects your health and safety by preventing devastating cuts to services. VOTE
LOCAL - find Measure L on vour ballot and vote YES.

Join La Mesa Police Officers and Firefighters -- Vote YES on L. Visit
www.protectlamesaservices.org for more information.

ERIC DANELL, President	TIM COOK, President

La Mesa Firemen’s Association	La Mesa Police Officers’ Association

DAVID HARDENBURGER
La Mesa Firemen’s Association

PR-09H0-5

N SD 465-047

RESOL U7i« N NO. 2008-074

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LA MESA,

CALIFORNIA, ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF
THE CITY A MEASURE RELATING TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A LOCAL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX (SALES TAX) AT THE GENERAL ELECTION TO
BE HELD ON TUESDAY NOVEMBER 4, 2008 AS CALLED BY RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, there has been a 73% increase in robberies and assaults since 2004, 13 bank
robberies in the City of La Mesa last year, and the Police Department estimates that
approximately 100 gang members live in the City;

WHEREAS, robberies, auto thefts, burglaries and violent crime have sharply increased in La
Mesa, and the City is compelled to recruit and retain quality police officers to maintain a strong
police force that will keep crime and gangs out of la Mesa;

WHEREAS, the quality of La Mesa streets are deteriorating, and funding is needed to fix
potholes, repair sidewalks and repave local streets to improve safety and traffic flow throughout La
Mesa;

WHEREAS, due to a lack of funds, the City of La Mesa has cut back on maintaining City |j
parks, ball fields and open space and funding is needed to upgrade and maintain fields, and
replace and repair playground equipment;

WHEREAS, since 1990 the State has taken over $16 Million in local tax revenue from La !■]
Mesa;	L|

WHEREAS, the State is facing a $17.2 Billion deficit this year, and the Legislature has i'J
already proposed funding cuts that threaten the quality of essential City services;

WHEREAS, due to declining revenue, increased costs and years of "state money grabs" the
City cannot maintain and improve essential services;

WHEREAS, reserve funds have been tapped to maintain service levels and these one-time
moneys will run out in less than two years;

WHEREAS, similar to cities throughout the State, La Mesa will be compelled to implement
devastating sendee cuts without a local funding measure;

WHEREAS, the La Mesa Vital City Services Measure (this "Measure") will provide a local
funding solution to ensure funding to repair neighborhood streets, maintain senior services, and
expand youth anti-drug and anti-gang programs;

WHEREAS, this Measure would ensure that the City's reserves can be replenished and that
there will be sufficient funding to maintain reserves at levels expected by the financial markets
based on fiscally sound best practices;

WHEREAS, Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes the City of La Mesa,
subject to approval by a majority vote of the qualified voters of the City voting in an election on the
issue, to levy a transactions and use tax pursuant to the Transactions and Use Tax Law in
multiples of 0.25% for general revenue purposes;

WHEREAS, Section 2 (b) of Article XIII C of the California Constitution added by Proposition
218 effective November 1996 requires that a measure proposing a general tax be submitted to
the voters at an election consolidated with a regularly scheduled general election for members of
the governing body of the local government;	|

WHEREAS, the La Mesa City Council did, by Resolution No. 2008-057 and Resolution No.
2008-058, respectively, call said General Municipal Election and requested the County Board of ;j
Supervisors to approve consolidation of the election with the Statewide General Election to be
held on the same day; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Constitution Article XIII C Section 2 (b) and Elections Code
Section 10201 the City has determined to submit a measure to the voters to enact an ordinance : i
establishing a transactions and use tax at the City's next regular general municipal election.	)j

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LA MESA, CALIFORNIA, )
DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS;

PR-09H0-6	N	SO	465-048	;:]

RESOLUTION NO, 2008-074 (Continued)

SECTION 1. That the City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does order
submitted to the voters at the General Municipal Election the following question:

"La Mesa Vital City Services Measure, To maintain essential City services
including natural disaster response/preparedness programs; youth anti- '|/es
gang/anti-drug prevention; retaining quality firefighters/paramedics and police
officers; increasing street paving/pothole repair; enhancing trolley station

security; maintaining the senior community center, after school tutoring and -.---

recreation programs; and other general services shall the City sales tax be
increased by three-quarters of a cent, requiring annual audits, public No
expenditure reports, with 20 year expiration?"

SECTION 2. The City Clerk is hereby directed to forward a copy of this Resolution to the
Board of Supervisors and the Registrar of Voters for inclusion in the ballot for the November 4,
2008 General Municipal Election.

SECTION 3. The Measure shall pass only if a majority of the votes cast by voters voting
on the Measure are "yes" votes and shall, if passed, fake precedence over any other conflicting
measure receiving less votes in this election.

SECTION 4. The City Council hereby directs the City Attorney to prepare an impartial
written analysis of the Measure, not to exceed 500 words in length, showing the effect of the
Measure on existing law and the operation of the Measure. The impartial analysis shall be filed
by the date set by the City Clerk for the filing of primary arguments.

SECTION 5. The City Council authorizes its members to file written arguments, not to
exceed 300 words, in favor of or against the Measure described above and which is contained in
Exhibit A to this Resolution, which Exhibit is incorporated by reference. All written arguments filed
by any person in favor of or against the Measure shall be accompanied by the printed names and
signatures of the persons submitting the arguments as required by applicable law and any printed
names, signatures and arguments may be filed until the time and date fixed by the City Clerk,
after which no change may be submitted to the City Clerk unless permitted by law.

SECTION 6. Pursuant to a resolution previously adopted by the Council allowing rebuttal
arguments, rebuttal arguments will be allowed, in accordance with Elections Code Section 9285.
Ail written rebuttal arguments may not exceed 250 words and shall be accompanied by the
printed names and signatures of the persons submitting the rebuttals as required by applicable
law and any printed names, signatures and shall be filed not more than 10 days after the final
date for filing direct arguments.

SECTION 7. The City Clerk shall cause the text of the Measure, which is contained in
Exhibit A, together with the City Attorney's impartial analysis, and any arguments for or against
the Measure, to be mailed to all qualified voters with the ballot. In addition to other notices and
publications required by law, the City Clerk, not less than forty (40) days and not more than sixty
(60) days before the General Municipal Election, shall cause the text of the Measure to be
published once in a newspaper of general circulation. The City Clerk is authorized to give such
notices and to fix such times and dates as are required by law or which are appropriate to
properly conduct the election.

SECTION 8. The provisions of Resolution No. 2008-057 and Resolution No. 2008-058,
respectively, refer to more particulars concerning the General Municipal Election to be held on
November 4, 2008 and in all respects the election shall be held and conducted as provided for by
applicable law. The City Clerk is authorized and directed to procure and furnish any official
ballots, notices, printed materials and ail supplies or equipment that may be necessary in order to
properly and lawfully conduct the election.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a Special meeting of the City Council of the City of La Mesa,
California, held the 29th day of July 2008, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:	Councilmember Allan, Arapostathis,	Ewin and Mayor Madrid

NOES:	Councilmember Sterling

ABSENT:	None

CERTIFICATE OF CITY CLERK
I, MARY J. KENNEDY, City Clerk of the City of La Mesa, California, do hereby certify the
foregoing to be a true and exact copy of Resolution No. 2008-074. duly passed and adopted by
the City Council of said City on the date and by the vote therein recited.

MARY J. KENNEDY, CMC, City Clerk

N SD 465-049

Exhibit A

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2008-

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LA MESA ADDING CHAPTER 5.28 TO
THE MUNICIPAL CODE ESTABLISHING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LA MESA DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Authority.

The City Council enacts this ordinance in accordance with the authority granted to cities
by Article XI, Section 7, of the California Constitution.

Section 2. Addition of Chapter.

Chapter 5.28 is hereby added to the La Mesa Municipal Code to read as follows:

5.28.010 Title.

This Chapter shall be known as the City of La Mesa Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The City of La Mesa hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

5.28.020 Operative Date.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
110 days after the later of the adoption of this Ordinance and chapter, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below, and the approval of the voters of the City of a measure approving the
imposition of the transaction and use tax set forth herein.

5.28.030 Purpose,

The purpose of this chapter is to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part
1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1,7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the qualified voters of the City voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

5.28.040 Contract With State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

PR-09HQ-8

N SD 465-050

PROPOSED ORDINANCE (Continued)

5.28.050 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of three quarters of one
percent (0.75%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property
sold at retail in the City on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

5.28.060 Place Of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his
agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

5.28.070 Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
incorporated territory of the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in the City at the
rate of three quarters of one percent (0.75%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless
of the place to which delivery is made.

5.28.080 Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and Chapter and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance and Chapter as though
fully set forth herein.

5,28.090 Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes.

In Adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City
or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	in those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this
tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the State under the said provision
of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797
or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

N SD 465-051

PROPOSED ORDINANCE (Continued)

5.28.100 Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

5.28.110	Exemptions And Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any State-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is
made ancf directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the
City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-
City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be
operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property
for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for
any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or
other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

N SD 465-052

PROPOSED ORDINANCE (Continued)

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of
time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter t (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable
for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

5.28.120 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 and Part 1;7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and ail amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

5.28.130 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State
or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

5.28.140 Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 3. Effective Date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes
and shall take effect immediately and shall be published within 15 days after adoption in a paper
of general circulation published and circulated within the City of La Mesa.

Section 4. Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall expire in twenty (20) years.

N SD 465-053