VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

SONOMA-MARIN AREA RAIL TRANSIT DISTRICT
MEASURE Q

To relieve traffic, fight global warming and increase

Q transportation options, shall Sonoma-Marin Area Rail
Transit District be authorized to provide two-way
passenger train service every 30 minutes during
weekday rush -hours, weekend service, a bicycle/pedestrian
pathway linking the stations, and connections to ferry/bus service,
by levying a 1/4-cent sales tax for 20 years, with an annual
spending cap, independent audits/oversight, and all funds
supporting these environmentally responsible transportation
alternatives in Marin and Sonoma Counties?

COUNTY COUNSELS’ IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q

The Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District (“SMART”) is a rail district created by
the Legislature in 2003 to evaluate, plan, and implement passenger rail and associ-
ated rail transit facilities and services from Cloverdale in Sonoma County to a ferry
terminal in Marin County that connects to San Francisco. The geographic area of
the district includes all of Sonoma and Marin counties.

The District is authorized, with the approval of the voters, to propose a special tax
to implement this service. The District has adopted an ordinance proposing a quarter-
cent transactions and use tax ($0.0025 on every $1 spent), to be imposed on retail
sales in Sonoma and Marin Counties, beginning April 1,2009. Proceeds of the tax
would provide funding for the design, construction, implementation, operation, fi-
nancing, maintenance and management of the rail system and a bicycle/pedes-
trian pathway from Cloverdale in Sonoma County to Larkspur in Marin County. An
Expenditure Plan for the tax revenues is incorporated into the proposed sales tax
ordinance. The revenue from the tax can only be spent on project elements listed in
the Expenditure Plan, including but not limited to:

1.	Weekday and weekend passenger rail service.

2.	A parallel bicycle/pedestrian pathway.

3.	Fourteen rail stations from Cloverdale to Larkspur (9 in Sonoma County, 5 in
Marin County).

4.	Rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing Northwestern Pacific Railroad
(NWP) corridor from Cloverdale to Larkspur, including new passenger train
passing sidings.

5.	A maintenance facility in either Cloverdale or Windsor.

6.	Shuttle service at selected rail stations.

The tax would be collected in the same manner as sales tax is currently collected,
would begin on April 1,2009, and would continue in effect for twenty (20) years.

The District is empowered under state law to issue bonds to fund ail or part of the
construction of the project, so that work can begin sooner. The bonds would be re-
paid overtime from the tax revenue collected. The ordinance also establishes an
appropriations (spending) limit for SMART.

The ordinance must be approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the question
in order for the special tax to go into effect.

si Patrick K. Faulkner	si	Steven	Woodside

Marin County Counsel	Sonoma	County	Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

Marin and Sonoma County voters can take a positive step this November—to
protect the environment, relieve traffic, and provide for our long-term transportation
future—by voting yes on Measure Q to establish Sonoma Marin Area Rail Transit
(SMART) passenger train service in the North Bay.

Measure Q will: authorize the SMART District to establish two-way passenger
train service along the publicly owned rail line paralleling Highway 101; schedule
train service every 30 minutes during weekday rush hours, plus mid-day and on
weekends; include a companion bicycle/pedestrian pathway between Larkspur
and Cloverdale; offer an economical alternative to sky-high gas prices; facilitate
easily accessible connections to local ferry/bus service; provide modern, quiet,
environmentally friendly, clean-fuel trains.

Protecting the environment: with climate change concerns and soaring gas prices,
SMART is timely—each year it will take 1.4 million car trips off the road, cut carbon
emissions by 31 million pounds, and reduce gasoline use by 1.5 million gallons.

Relieving traffic congestion: Marin-Sonoma’s stretch of Highway 101 is the Bay
Area’s 4th most congested corridor. Measure Q will fund two new transportation al-
ternatives—the Train, an easily accessible, convenient transportation option that
cuts peak commute times, and the Pathway, with 7,000-10,000 projected users daily.

Providing transportation options: our local economy and environment will suffer if
we continue to depend on roads and driving. A vote for Measure Q is an investment
in options that will help secure our transportation future.

Taxpayer protections are required. Measure Q includes an annual spending cap.
Eveiy dollar will be spent locally in Marin and Sonoma Counties. Independent Citizens’
Oversight and annual audits are Mandatory to ensure funds are spent properly.

Environmental, business, labor and transit advocates, and thousands of North Bay
citizens urge your support.

Measure Q is a Smart transportation solution. Please—vote Yes.

si Jared Huffman	si	Noreen Evans

CA State Assemblymember	CA	State Assemblymember

si Steve Kinsey, Chair	si	Bill	Kortum, President'

Transportation Authority of Marin Sonoma County Conservation Action

si Larry Fahn
National Environmental Leader

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

If you're considering voting for Measure Q because you love trains and think
SMART would benefit commuters and our environment, please think again.

It would destroy wetlands and devastate wildlife corridors along its 70-mile length.
NCRA freight trains and gravel mining, if facilitated by SMART, might damage the
Eel River and its threatened salmon and steelhead.

The 19th century technology SMART promoters want us to pay for is neither smart
nor affordable. It cannot noticeably relieve traffic congestion or reduce pollution. If it
could, we would support it.

Tax promoters claim the train would reduce car trips, carbon emissions and gaso-
line consumption. Any reductions would be too tiny to make a meaningful differ-
ence in our air or in Marin-Sonoma car trips. Even worse, trains would spew
cancer-causing exhaust and back up idling cars at every street crossing. The Air
Resources Board’s new increased fuel mileage standards will reduce pollution
more than the train.

SMART promoters insist that taxpayers would be “protected” by an annual spend-
ing cap. However, their own projections show that the little-train-that-can’t would
lose millions annually, dollars that would not be provided by the increase in sales

CONT. NEXT PAGE

74

9838

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q, CONT.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE

Q

tax. A spending cap wouldn’t protect us from having to dig into our pockets to pay
for those losses.

This train to nowhere would force the many to subsidize the few riders to Marin.
SMART is a billion-dollar dumb idea that would drain our budgets of money when
we need it most. Vote No.

si Richard S. Gaines, Ret. Air Conservation Dir. si Bill Bennett
American Lung Association	Rancher

si Joan Vilms	si	Ernest L. Carpenter

Environmentalist	Former County Supervisor

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q

The SMART train is a dumb idea. Here’s why.

The cost would be huge, increasing sales taxes at a time when our economy is in
trouble and families are struggling.

The train tax would continue for twenty years, draining a billion dollars from family
budgets, and still wouldn’t cover the $12 million the train would lose every year.
We’d have little choice but to burden ourselves with a perpetual tax increase to
cover costs. How smart is that?

Successful rail services require urban population densities and highly-concentrated
homes and workplaces along the tracks. Sonoma County has widely scattered
homes and jobs and no bus feeder system. SMART’S own studies indicate it would
not serve Sonoma County commuter needs. The train can't go where most of us
live and work.

We need a transportation system to take passengers to San Francisco and East
Bay, but this proposal ignores that need. Passengers would be left high and dry in
Marin. Few who drive the 101 corridor would want to ride a train to nowhere.
Shouldn’t a billion-dollar project take us where we want to go?

With so few passengers, the outrageously expensive train would never signifi-
cantly reduce traffic congestion or air pollution. Numerous street crossings in
Rohnert Park, Petaluma and Santa Rosa would significantly slow commute traffic.

Who would benefit from this gold-plated gift, paid for with our tax dollars? Certainly
not the taxpayers, commuters or the average family. There are better solutions,
less expensive and less disruptive to our communities. We can use modern com-
puter technology, existing transportation corridors, flexible shuttle and van routes
to move more people at less cost.

Let’s sidetrack this bad idea until the politicians get Smart and propose a system
we can afford, one that actually works. Just say, “Not Smart Enough.” Vote No.

si Ernest L. Carpenter	SONOMA	COUNTYTAXPAYERS’	ASSOC

Former Sonoma County Supervisor si Fred Levin, Executive Director

si Joan Vilms	si	Bill	Bennett

Environmentalist	Rancher

We need green transportation solutions. Growing congestion, high gas prices and
the reality of climate change can’t be ignored. The opponents are misleading vot-
ers with misinformation and no solutions! Consider these facts:

Highway 101 traffic is horrible! Measure Q will relieve, not add to, freeway traffic.
Measure Q covers all costs of SMART for 20 years. The longer we wait to improve
our transportation options the more expensive it will be. SMART connects to the
Larkspur Ferry, San Francisco, and North Bay.

Measure Q will contribute to healthier communities. SMART'S bicycle/pedestrian
pathway projects 7,000 -10,000 daily users. The train will decrease adverse health
effects from air pollution by using environmentally friendly clean fuel and cutting
emissions by 31 million pounds annually.

Tracks will be welded to reduce noise and Quiet Zones will be established. Pas-
senger trains can be 2 - 3 railcars long, allowing street traffic to keep moving when
trains stop. Crossing gates and signals will be synchronized to help traffic flow. Using
the publicly owned railroad right-of-way for passenger trains is fiscally responsible.
Studies show property values rise in areas with quality public transit.

Measure Q requires independent Citizens’ Oversight, annual spending cap, and
annual audits to ensure funds are spent properly. Every dollar goes to improving
transportation in the North Bay.

Leading organizations including the League of Women Voters, Santa Rosa Cham-
ber of Commerce and Sonoma County Conservation Action studied Measure Q
and urge your support. Learn more at: www.smarttrain2008.org

Please Vote Yes on Q—for Green Transportation Solutions.

si Charles McGlashan	si	Mike	Kerns

Marin Supervisor, SMART Chair	Sonoma Supervisor, SMART Boardmember

si Ann Hancock, Director	si	Deb	Hubsmith

Climate Protection Campaign Marin County Bicycle Coalition

si Cynthia Murray
Ex-Supervisor; President, North Bay Leadership Council

NORTHBAY CITIZENS FOR EFFECTIVE TRANSPORTATION
sl Mike Arnold

CONT. NEXT PAGE

75

9838

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q

ORDINANCE NO. 2008-01

AN ORDINANCE OF THE SONOMA-MARIN AREA RAIL TRANSIT DISTRICT
IMPOSING A RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION; ADOPTING AN EXPENDITURE
PLAN; AND ESTABLISHING AN ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT FOR THE
SONOMA-MARIN AREA RAIL TRANSIT DISTRICT.

BACKGROUND FINDINGS:

The Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District (SMART) was created to provide a
passenger rail system along the Northwestern Pacific Railroad within Sonoma and
Marin Counties. The entire 75-mile corridor is publicly owned and can be used to
provide passenger rail service. SMART will provide passenger rail service and a bi-
cycle/pedestrian pathway to 14 rail stations in Sonoma and Marin Counties.
SMART is committed to providing service with the most environmentally clean
passenger rail vehicle possible.

SMART requires this measure in order to provide matching revenues to existing
state and federal transportation grants, to bond for the construction of the project,
and to provide funding for the on-going operation and maintenance of the project

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Sonoma-Marin Pas-
senger Rail Act. The Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District hereinafter shall be
called “District." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincor-
porated territory of the Counties of Sonoma and Marin, which shall be referred to
herein as "District."

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the effective date of
this ordinance, as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in or-
der to accomplish those purposes:.

A.	To provide funding forthe design, construction, implementation, op-
eration, financing, maintenance and management of a passenger rail system and
a bicycle/pedestrian pathway connecting the 14 rail stations from Cloverdale to
Larkspur.

B.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Reve-
nue and Taxation Code and Section 105115 of the Public Utilities Code which au-
thorizes the District to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a
two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the impo-
sition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorpo-
rates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use T ax Law of the State of Cal-
ifornia insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the
State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to,
and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and adminis-
trative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and us.e tax ordinance that can be ad-
ministered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, mini-
mize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time,
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the Dis-
trict shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions inci-
dent to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance;

provided, that if the Authority shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter fol-
lowing the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. Forthe privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorpo-
rated and unincorporated territory of the District at the rate of 1/4 of 1 percent
(0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be pre-
scribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use or other consumption in the District of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use
or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 1/4 of 1 percent (0.25%) of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all
of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Rev-
enue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this District shall be substituted therefor. However, the substi-
tution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Trea-
sury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this District or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Di-
vision 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the state under the said provision of that code.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

76

9838

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q, CONT.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “District” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the defini-
tion of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10.	PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued

to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax
and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of Cali-
fornia or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uni-
form Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transac-
tions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such air-
craft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped
to a point outside the District, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for ship-
ment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a
point outside the District shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division

3.5	(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-District address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-District and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pur-
suant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this District of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compen-

sation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemp-
tion is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease priorto the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, stor-
age, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the District shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
District or participates within the District in making the sale of the property, includ-
ing, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at
a place of business of the retailer in the district or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority
of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the District’ shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, air-
craft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or un-
documented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in
the District.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Divi-
sion 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12.	AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective

date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code re-
lating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part

1.6	and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automati-
cally become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or pro-
ceeding in any court against the State or the District, or against any officer of the
State or the District, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part

1.6	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

Section 14. ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT.
Taking into account the proceeds of taxes available to the District, including tax
revenue that would become available upon approval of this ordinance, the appro-
priations limit of the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District for fiscal year
2008-2009 is established as $100 million, unless that amount should be amended
pursuant to applicable law.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

77

9838

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q, CONT.  Section 15. ADOPTION OF EXPENDITURE PLAN AND ACCOUNT- ABILITY FOR EXPENDITURE OF PROCEEDS OF THE TAX. The District Board of Directors hereby adopts the 2008 Expenditure Plan attached hereto and incor- porated into this ordinance by reference. Proceeds of the tax imposed by this ordi- nance shall be placed in a special account, and shall be spent only to implement the project components set forth in the 2008 Expenditure Plan, including the de- sign, construction, implementation, operation, financing, maintenance and man- agement of the passenger rail system and bicycle/pedestrian pathway.  Section 16. ANNUAL REPORT. The Chief Financial Officer of the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District shall annually cause to be prepared a re- port setting forth (a) the amount of funds collected and expended; and (b) the sta- tus of any project component authorized to be funded in the 2008 Expenditure Plan adopted by the District in Section 15 herein.  Section 17. COMPLIANCE WITH CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL	CONT. NEXT PAGE
QUALITY ACT (CEQA). An Environmental Impact Report (EIR) was prepared for the project described in the Expenditure Plan and was certified by the District Board of Directors on July 19,2006. A Supplemental EIR was prepared to supplement the 2006 EIR and was certified by the District Board of Directors on July 16,2008.  Section 18. SEVERABILITY. If anv provision of this ordinance or the aopli- cation thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances  shall not be affected thereby.  Section 19. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the lewina and collecting of the District transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immedi- ately upon the close of the polls on November 4,2008, if the measure is approved by two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure at the election held that day.  Section 20. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to lew the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire twenty (20) years from the operative date of this ordinance.  PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District in the County of Marin, State of California, on July 16, 2008, by the following vote:  DIRECTORS:  MCGLASHAN: AYE FUDGE: AYE BORO: AYE. BREEN: AYE BROWN, H: NO BROWN, V: AYE DILLON-KNUTSON: NO EDDIE: AYE KERNS: AYE MACKENZIE: AYE PAHRE: AYE  AYES: 9 NOES: 2 ABSENT: _ ABSTAIN: _ VACANT: 1  si Charles McGlashan, Chair, SMART Board of Directors Attest:  si Lillian Hames, General Manager and Clerk of the Board	

78

9838

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q, CONT.

I.	Executive Summary: SMART Expenditure Plan

The Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District (SMART) proposes a 'A-cent sales
tax measure for Sonoma and Marin Counties in order to pay for the construction
and operation of a passenger train system and ancillary bicycle/pedestrian path-
way along the existing, publicly owned Northwestern Pacific Railroad. The SMART
project will extend from Cloverdale in Sonoma County to Larkspur in Marin County.
(See Figure 1)

SMART’S proposed V-t-cent sales tax measure would relieve traffic, fight global
warming and increase transportation options, by providing two-way passenger
train service every 30 minutes during weekday rush hours, weekend service, a bi-
cycle/pedestrian pathway linking the stations, and connections to ferry/bus ser-
vice, by levying a 'A-cent sales tax for 20 years, with an annual spending cap,
independent audits/oversight, and all funds supporting these environmentally re-
sponsible transportation alternatives in Marin and Sonoma Counties.

Passage of this measure allows SMART to access other state, regional, and fed-
eral fu nds for the provision of passenger train service that are currently unavailable

to Sonoma and Marin residents.

This measure would raise approximately $890 million over a 20-year period or ap-
proximately $45 million a year. The proceeds of the tax would be allocated to the
design, construction, implementation, operation, financing, maintenance and man-
agement of a passenger train system and a bicycle/pedestrian pathway connect-
ing the proposed train stations.

In 2006 SMART certified an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) analyzing the po-
tential environmental impacts of the proposed passenger train and pathway corri-
dor. The report’s findings included:

•	The train and pathway project is the environmentally superior alternative to the
congested 101 freeway.

•	The proposed project would reduce greenhouse gases.

•	Up to 1.5 million car trips would be removed from Highway 101 annually.

•	Energy use is reduced thereby reducing dependence on fossil fuels.

•	The pathway provides another clean transportation option linking the train sta-
tions, along with health and recreational benefits.

•	Replacement of waterway bridges and culverts with modern structures would
significantly improve drainage along the train corridor and eliminate seasonal
flooding.

More recently, a Supplemental EIR was prepared to evaluate:

•	Potential addition of weekend passenger train service;

•	Potential use of lighter-weight train vehicles;

•	Potential alternative locations for the Novato South Station; and

•	The cumulative impact due to a change in the level of future freight rail service
operating in the SMART corridor.

See www.sonomamarintrain.ora to view the environmental documents.

II.	SMART Expenditure Plan Background

A.	SMART District Role and Purpose

On January 1,2003, the SMART District was established by the California Legisla-
ture through the enactment of AB 2224. The SMART District includes both
Sonoma and Marin Counties and was created for the purpose of providing a unified
and comprehensive structure for the ownership and governance of a passenger
rail system within Sonoma and Marin Counties. The goal of SMART is to provide
passenger train service along the existing publicly-owned railroad right-of-way.

B.	Rail Corridor Ownership and Management

The primary asset of SMART is the NWP rail right-of-way and properties contained
within that right-of-way along the railroad corridor extending from Healdsburg in
Sonoma County to Corte Madera in Marin County. (See Figure 1.) This
right-of-way is a significant public asset and is to be managed for the public's use
and benefit via the restoration of passenger train service and the development of a
pathway linking the train stations.

SMART is managed by a General Manager, who is appointed by and reports to the
SMART Board of Directors. SMART adopts an annual budget documenting all rev-
enues and expenditures. Upon passage of this measure, SMART will prepare a
Strategic Plan, under the direction of the SMART Board of Directors, and will up-
date the plan at least every five years. The Strategic Plan will provide detailed an-
nual revenue and cost assumptions for project implementation and operation.
SMART will also prepare a five-year Short Range Transit Plan documenting ser-
vice and funding assumptions. Prior to initiating train service, SMART will prepare
a Start-Up Plan and an Emergency Preparedness Plan one year in advance of
scheduled service. The Start-Up Plan will include implementation requirements,
schedule assumptions, staffing, and maintenance and operations requirements.
The Emergency Preparedness Plan will be developed in coordination with local ju-
risdictions and emergency responders and will address response protocols and
procedures along the corridor.

A Citizens Oversight Committee will be established by the SMART Board to pro-
vide input and review on the Strategic Plan and subsequent updates. The commit-
tee will be composed of citizens from the SMART District, appointed by the Board.

C.	Community Outreach

SMART’S community outreach efforts have included monthly public Board meet-
ings, public hearings, special ad hoc meetings and hundreds of presentations to
community, business and special issue groups. SMART maintains an agency
website with regular postings of project documents, a project hotline with phone
numbers in both Sonoma and Marin counties and has provided regular email up-
dates on the project’s development to over 2,200 email recipients each year.

III.	Expenditure Plan and Project Details

A.	Project Description

The SMART passenger train project will upgrade the existing NWP right-of-way, to
provide passenger train service from Cloverdale to Larkspur, with convenient link-
ages to bus, ferries, and shuttle feeder routes and direct connections to the bicy-
cle/pedestrian pathway. Fourteen stations are planned, nine in Sonoma County
and five in Marin County. Proposed station sites include: Cloverdale, Healdsburg,
Windsor, Santa Rosa (two stations), Rohnert Park, Cotati, Petaluma (two stations),
Novato (two stations), Marin Civic Center, San Rafael and Larkspur.

Two-way train service is proposed at 30 minute frequencies, operating in the week-
day a.m. and p.m. commute periods, along with one mid-day train. Weekend train
service is also proposed with four, two-way round trips per day on Saturdays and
Sundays.

B.	Project Components: Capital Improvements

1.	Upgrading Trackway and Bridges: The existing single track rail line will be
upgraded with passing tracks and train sidings, which will accommodate train
schedule requirements. All of the rail, with the exception of rail recently or cur-
rently being upgraded, will be re-laid with new ballast, ties, signage, and drain-
age facilities. Timber trestle bridges will be replaced with concrete trestle
spans supported on concrete pilings. The Gallinas Creek Bridge and Russian
River Railroad Bridge will be upgraded and rehabilitated and will include drain-
age improvements. The Haystack Landing Bridge over the Petaluma River will
also be replaced.

2.	Providing New and Upgraded Stations: Fourteen train stations are pro-
posed (see Figure 1). The stations would have convenient transfers to available
peak period, fixed route bus service, connections to regional ferry service (at the
Larkspur Station) and bicycle/pedestrian pathway connections. At locations where
stations are to be co-located with existing or planned transit centers, passenger rail
upgrades will be provided. Each station will have a boarding platform with shelter,
lighting, ticket vending machines, passenger amenities and pick-up and drop-off
areas. Park-and-ride spaces will be provided at most stations. Bicycle parking
would be provided at all stations and attended bicycle parking facilities are pro-
posed at Santa Rosa Railroad Square and Downtown San Rafael.

3.	Providing Clean and Efficient Rail Cars: SMART will use modem railcars
powered by clean, efficient on-board engines, eliminating the need for big locomotives.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

79

9838

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q, EXPENDITURE PUN, CONT.
Figure 1.

80

9838

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q, EXPENDITURE PLAN, CONT.

SMART trains can carry 200-300 passengers, yet will be short enough to fit within a
city block to avoid obstructing downtown streets.

4.	Implementing Other Needed Improvements: Two tunnels will be upgraded
for train service. The CalPark Hill Tunnel, between San Rafael and Larkspur, will
be funded 50% by SMART and 50% by Marin County. The CalPark Hill Tunnel will
include both train and pathway improvements. The Puerto Suello Hill Tunnel, lo-
cated north of San Rafael, will be upgraded for passenger rail service.

All public crossings will be upgraded along the rail line.

A new signal and dispatch system will be provided along the rail line to control train
operations in accordance with state and federal operating rules and requirements.

The replacement of old railroad bridges and trestles will provide significant improve-
ments in drainage and aid in the elimination of seasonal flooding along the corridor.

5.	Providing Funding for a Bicycle/Pedestrian Pathway: SMART will provide
a bicycle/pedestrian pathway along the SMART rail corridor linking the 14 train sta-
tions and ongoing annual maintenance of the pathway.

6.	Providing for Connecting Shuttle Services: Peak hour shuttle service is
proposed for selected train stations. SMART has proposed nine shuttle routes
serving selected stations during peak commute periods. Maps showing the shuttle
routes are included as part of White Paper #9 and can be found on the district’s
website at www.sonomamarintrain.ora.

7.	Building a Needed Maintenance Facility: A maintenance facility will be con-
structed to provide rail car maintenance and storage.

8.	Implementing Quiet Zones: SMART has committed to funding Quiet Zones
in urban areas along the corridor, which would allow crossings to operate without
train horns.

9.	Implementing an Environmental Mitigation Program: SMART will imple-
ment the environmental compliance and mitigation measures identified in the Final
Environmental Impact Reports. Specific mitigation measures include traffic syn-
chronization improvements, habitat and wetland restoration, and implementation
of Quiet Zones.

10.	Engineering, Bid Documents, Staff Support: Final engineering and prepara-
tion of all construction bid documents will be provided for the train and pathway project.

C.	Project Components: On-Going Operations and Maintenance

1.	Annual Forecasted Operating Costs: Operating costs have been updated to
account for all costs of train and shuttle operations, including service contracts, ve-
hicle fuel, insurance, administration, project staffing and overhead.

2.	Annual Forecasted Maintenance Costs: Annual maintenance costs have
been updated to account for the costs of maintaining train cars, stations, trackway,
signals, maintenance facility, railroad crossings and the portions of the bicycle/pe-
destrian pathway on the rail right-of-way.

IV.	Project Funding and Implementation

A.	Schedule

The proposed schedule for the project is as follows:

•	SMART District Vote, November 4,2008

•	Engineering/Construction, 2009-2013

•	Passenger Train Service Start-Up, 2014

B.	Sales Tax Revenues

It is estimated that $890 million will be raised with the 'A-cent district-wide sales tax
over 20 years. Annual revenues are estimated to be approximately $45 million.

C.	Fare Revenues

Fares for train service will be established by the SMART Board of Directors
through a public process, as required by law. It is anticipated that the fare structure
will incorporate a distance-based zone system, similar to other transit districts in
the North Bay. Based on the experience of other passenger train systems, fares
are expected to fund approximately 36% of annual train system operating costs.

The average fare assumed in this Expenditure Plan is $4.50 per one-way trip (2008
dollars).

D.	Project Financing and Bonding

SMART plans on using bonds to finance a portion of the capital costs of construc-
tion ofthe project so that the project can be constructed and operating as quickly as
possible. Financing will be used to fund the difference between regional, state and
federal funding and the capital cost of the project during the construction years.
The bonds will be paid back over the 20 years of the plan. Bonding will be pre-
sented in the District’s Strategic Plan and will be subject to public comment before
any bond sale is approved.

£ Expenditure Plan Allocations

Project costs are summarized in Table 1. The allocation of sales tax revenues to
project costs over the 20 year plan includes the following assumptions:

1.	District revenues will fund approximately 70% of total costs and include sales
tax revenues, SMART property lease revenues, and joint development
revenues.

2.	Federal funding is anticipated for approximately 3% of total costs.

3.	State funding is estimated at about 7% of total costs. Funding includes Propo-
sition 116, the Traffic Congestion Relief Program, and State Transit Assis-
tance (revenue-based only, no population-based revenue is assumed).

4.	Regional Measure 2 will fund approximately 3% of total costs.

5.	Sonoma County's Measure M Traffic Relief Act will provide a total of $23 mil-
lion, representing 2% of total costs.

6.	NCRA capital off-sets for ongoing trackway upgrades are estimated at 3% of
total costs.

7.	Fare revenues will fund approximately 36% of annual train operating costs; or
12% of total costs over the 20-year plan.

8.	A 20-year program contingency is provided.

The proposed 'A-cent sales tax measure would provide approximately $890 mil-
lion (in future year dollars) in new revenues, which would be used to leverage an
estimated 20-year investment of nearly $1.4 billion (year of expenditure dollars).
The financial estimates include:

•	A contingency of approximately 20% for all construction costs.

•	An additional 5% factor built into the construction cost estimates through mid-
point of construction.

•	A contingency of 20% for annual operating and maintenance costs.

These cost and revenue estimates cover the full 20-year term of the measure and
include all anticipated revenues and costs associated with the project

CONT. NEXT PAGE

81

9838

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q, EXPENDITURE PLAN, CONT.
Table 1: SMART Project Costs (All costs in 2008 dollars)

Project Capital Costs	
Train Project	$450 million
Bicycle/Pedestrian Pathway	$ 91 million
	
Total	$541 million
	
Annual Operating Costs	
Train Project	$17.1 million
Bicycle/Pedestrian Pathway	$ 0.8 million
Shuttle Services	$ 1.4 million
	
Total	$19.3 million

Figures 2 and 3 (see following page) identify the anticipated percentage share of
costs and revenues, respectively, for implementing the SMART program over a 20
year period. For more financial information see the full text of SMART'S 2008 Project
Funding Plan at www.sonomamarintrain.ora

V.	Implementing Guidelines

The following is a list of guidelines for implementation of this Expenditure Plan:

1.	A Citizens Oversight Committee will be established by the SMART Board to
provide input and review on the Strategic Plan and subsequent updates.

2.	SMART shall undergo an annual independent financial audit.

3.	SMART will prepare a Strategic Plan prior'to July 2009 which will identify
planned investments in capital implementation, operations and maintenance
for the duration of the tax.

4.	SMART is authorized to issue revenue bonds, pursuant to Public Utilities Code
section 105220, to advance the commencement of, or expedite the delivery of,
passenger train service, the bicycle/pedestrian pathway and related train
transit improvements.

5.	The measure will be administered by the State Board of Equalization.

6.	The duration of the measure will be 20 years, beginning on April 1,2009 and
expiring on March 31,2029.

7.	Actual revenues may be higher or lower than expected due to changes in avail-
ability of state or federal funds, changes in cost and/or fluctuations in sales tax
revenues. Estimates of actual revenue will be programmed annually by the
District in its annual budget and service plan.

8.	If additional funds become available, the SMART Board will prioritize comple-
tion of the bicycle/pedestrian pathway.

9.	SMART agrees not to seek any funding that TAM or Marin Transit currently
has programmed for transportation improvements in Marin County, including
funds in the Regional Transportation Plan (T-2030 and T-2035) or the Federal
Transportation Improvement Program.

VI.	Strategic Plan

SMART will prepare a Strategic Plan, based on the commitments in this Expendi-
ture Plan, prior to July 2009. The Strategic Plan will identify planned investments in
capital implementation, operations and maintenance for the duration of the tax.
The Strategic Plan will be updated at least every five years and approved by the

SMART Board of Directors. The Strategic Plan will be developed with input from
the public and the Citizens Oversight Committee.

VII.	Amendments to the Plan

The SMART Board of Directors may annually review and propose amendments to
this Expenditure Plan to provide for the use of additional federal, state and local
funds, to account for unexpected revenues and to accommodate any unforeseen
circumstances.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

82

9838

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q, EXPENDITURE PLAN, CONT.

Figures 2 and 3 identify the anticipated percentage share of costs and revenues, respectively, for implementing the SMART program over a 20 year period. For
more financial information see the full text of SMART'S 2008 Project Funding Plan at www.sonomamarintrain.org

Figure 2: Anticipated Percentage Share of Costs (Estimates in 2008 dollars)

Notes:

(1)	Includes Final Design ($56 million) plus train project construction ($394 million).

(2)	Includes annual operating and maintenance costs and planning funds.

Figure 3: Anticipated Percentage Share of Revenues (Estimates in 2008 dollars)

12%

70%

a SMART District (1)
aFarebox (2)
tD Regional
a State
Ei Federal
a Other (3)

Notes:

(1)	Includes SMART sales tax revenues, SMART property lease revenues and joint
development revenues and other funds.

(2)	Fares are expected to contribute approximately 12% of total revenues over 20 years and
36% of annual rail operating costs.

(3)	Includes Sonoma County Measure M revenues and NCRA improvement off-sets.

83

9838