MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS
MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS A LOS
VOTANTES

STATE

/ESTATAL

” VETERANS’ BOND ACT OF 2008.

1 2 This act provides for a bond issue of
1 ™ nine hundred million dollars
($900,000,000) to provide farm and home aid
for California veterans. Fiscal Impact: Costs of
about $1.8 billion to pay off both the principal
($900 million) and interest ($856 million) on the
bonds; costs paid by participating veterans.
Average payment for principal and interest of
about $59 million per year for 30 years.

LEY DE BONOS DE VETERANOS DE 2008. Esta ley
dispone una emision de bonos de novecientos
millones de dolares ($900,000,000) para proporcionar
asistencia a los veteranos de California para granjas y
viviendas. Impacto fiscal: Costos de unos $1.8 mil
millones para saldar el capital ($900 millones) y los
intereses ($856 millones) de los bonos; costos
pagados por los veteranos participantes. Pago
promedio del capital e intereses de aproximadamente
$59 millones anuales por 30 anos.

YES/SI^

NO/NO*. -4

COUNTY
/CONDADO

COUNTY OF SAN
BERNARDINO

CONDADO DESAN
BERNARDINO

S PROPOSED COUNTY CHARTER
AMENDMENT NUMBER THIRTY-
NINE TO ESTABLISH A HIGHER
STANDARD OF ETHICS FOR STAFF
MEMBERS OF COUNTY ELECTED
OFFICERS. Shall the Charter of the County of
San Bernardino be amended to establish a
higher standard of ethics for staff members of
County elected officers?

PROPUESTA DE ENMIENDA A LA CARTA
CONSTITUTE/\ NUMERO TREINTA Y NUEVE DEL
CONDADO PARA ESTABLECER UNAS NORMAS
MAS ELEVADAS DE ETICA PARA LOS MIEMBROS
DEL PERSONAL DE FUNCIONARIOS ELECTOS
DEL CONDADO. ^Deberfa ser enmendada la Carta
Constitutiva del Condado de San Bernardino para
establecer unas normas mas elevadas de etica para
los miembros del personal de los funcionarios electos
del Condado?

YES/SI*. -i
NO / NO 4"

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS
MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS A LOS
VOTANTES

CITY
/CIUDAD

CITY OF BARSTOW
CIUDAD DE BARSTOW

D BARSTOW CRIME PREVENTION/
FIREFIGHTER RECRUITMENT
MEASURE To hire enough new
police officers/firefighters/paramedics to fight
gangs/crime; shut down meth/drug hotspots;
meet minimum firefig hter/paramedic staffing
levels; and acquire police, fire and emergency
safety equipment, shall the City of Barstow
enact a % cent transaction (sales) and use tax
ordinance, requiring all funds generated be
spent on Barstow’s fire, police and emergency
protection/response with expenditures subject
to annual independent audits and citizens’
oversight?

MEDIDA DE BARSTOW PARA PREVENCION DE
DELINCUENCIA/RECL UTAMIENTO DE BOMB EROS

A fin de contratar suficientes nuevos agentes de la
policfa/bomberos/paramedicos para combatir las
pandillas/delincuencia; clausurar los puntos de
concentracion de metanfetaminas/drogas; satisfacer
los niveles minimos de personal de
bomberos/paramedicos; y adquirir equipamiento de
seguridad par policias, bomberos y emergencia,
I deberfa la Ciudad de Barstow promulgar una
ordenanza de % de centavo por transaccion (ventas) e
impuesto al consumidor por servicio, requiriendo que
todos los fondos generados sean gastados en
proteccion/respuesta de bomberos,policfa y
emergencia de Barstow con erogaciones sujetas a
auditorias independientes anuales y vigilancia de
ciudadanos?

YES/SI^ -4
NO/NO*. -4

Ballot Type 31 Page 7

MEASURE D

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Measure D, the Barstow Crime Prevention/ Firefighter Recruitment Measure, would adopt an
ordinance establishing a three-quarter percent transactions (sales) and use tax to fund authorized
fire protection services, emergency medical services, police services and emergency dispatch
services.

Sixty-nine percent of proceeds would be reserved for fire protection/EMS services. These funds
could be used only to (1) obtain, furnish, operate and maintain fire protection and emergency
medical services equipment and apparatus, (2) pay salaries and benefits of fire protection and
emergency medical services personnel, (3) pay expenses associated with training and recruiting
fire protection and emergency medical services personnel, and (4) pay expenses associated with
the operation of a dispatch and emergency communications system for fire protection and
emergency medical services. These services are provided by the Barstow Fire Protection
District.

Thirty-one percent of the proceeds would be reserved for police services. These funds could be
used only to (1) obtain, furnish, operate and maintain equipment and vehicles to be used by
sworn law enforcement officers, (2) pay salaries and benefits of sworn law enforcement officers,
(3) pay expenses associated with training and recruiting sworn law enforcement officers and (4)
pay expenses associated with the operation of a dispatch and emergency communications
system for police services. These services are provided by the Barstow Police Department.

Tax proceeds could be expended only for the purposes set forth above. Proceeds could not be
used to pay the salaries and benefits of administrative personnel who do not directly provide fire
protection, emergency medical, police, or emergency dispatch services.

The tax would be administered by the State Board of Equalization. It would be paid in addition to
current sales and use taxes and would be collected at the same time and in generally the same
manner as existing sales and use taxes; though with respect to motor vehicle sales, applicability
of the tax is based on the vehicle registration address of the new owner, rather than on the place
of sale.

The current effective sales and use tax rate in the City (and in unincorporated areas of San
Bernardino County) is currently 7.75% (of which the City of Barstow only directly receives .75%).
The measure would increase the overall effective rate in the City of Barstow to 8.5%. Unlike
existing sales and use taxes, the new tax would be a City tax that could not be reallocated by the
state legislature or redirected to uses not authorized by the voters.

The Measure would establish a Citizen’s Oversight Committee to monitor expenditure of tax
proceeds. It would also require annual review by an independent auditor.

Pursuant to state law, the Measure must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the electorate in
order to be adopted.

A copy of the proposed ordinance is printed in the sample ballot.

Dated: August 13, 2008
s/Yvette M. Abich, City Attorney

PR-8004-1

N SB 031-021

MEASURE D

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

CONCERNED ABOUT CRIME AND SAFETY? Demand Safety in Barstow—VOTE YES on D.

Our community needs more police and firefighters to be safe.

Consider the facts:

•	Gang violence, drug use, violent and property crimes in Barstow are increasing

•	Methamphetamine and illegal drug trafficking are serious problems.

•	Gangs from surrounding regions, even Los Angeles, are coming into Barstow to deal drugs
and commit crimes.

•	20% of the time, there is no fire engine available to respond to emergency calls.

•	Our Fire District is severly understaffed- there are not enough firefiahter/oaramedics to meet
minimum recommended standards in a fire or 9-1-1 emergency.

•	Our firefighters are at greater risk of injury and death because they are steched so thin.

Show criminals they won’t be tolerated in Barstow by hiring police to get tough on gangs and
drugs.

Yes on D puts new police officers with bulletproof vests and safety equipment on the streets to
prevent gang and drug related crimes and to arrest criminals and parole violators.

Yes on D Cracks down on gangs and drugs by expanding the City’s anti-gang/drug police
activities adn shuts down drug hot spots.

Yes on D hires more firefighters adn paramedics to protect our families and our homes.

Yes on D Helps improve 9-1-1 response times to medical emergencies and fires, when a few
seconds can mean the difference between life and death by ensuring there are enough
firefighters on duty to respond to multiple emergencies.

Yes on D for FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY! Measure D requres mandatory annual, financial
audits, Independent Citizen’s Oversight, and seperate police & fire funds to ensure money is
spent as promised.

Remember to Find D on your ballot and VOTE YES on D to hire more police officers, firefighters
and paramedics to DEMAND SAFETY IN BARSTOW.

s/Andrew Ellis

Barstow Police Officers Association, President
s/Steve Ross

Barstow Professional Firefighter Association President

s/Carol S. Randall
Local Business Advocate

s/Robert D Clemmer
Small Business Owner

s/Jeff L. Eason Sr.

Senior Advocate Barstow Senior Citizens Center

N SB 031-022

MEASURE D

REBUTTLE TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

A “Yes VOTE” means Barstow Residents Pay Higher Prices Than Other High Desert
Residents:

If this proposal passes you will pay 4 cents per gallon more for gasoline. $200/$400 more for a
car purchase and hundreds of dollars more every year for your purchases from Wal-Mart,
Home Depot and other local businesses!! Eating out at restaurants; shopping at local stores;
getting repairs on your car. Every purchase just gets more expensive. Local residents living
outside the city limits and residents of Victorville, Apple Valley, Hesperia and Helendale will pay
lower sales taxes.

A “Yes VOTE” Will Place Higher Taxes On Senior Citizens and the Lower Income People:

Senior on a fixed income and lower income residents will be disproportionably impacted by the
proposed tax increase.

A “Yes VOTE” Will Push Home Values Lower:

If Barstow has a higher sales tax than all other communities in the High Desert, Barstow will be a
less attractive place to purchase a home and live here. Home values have already dropped 25%
in the last year. A “No VOTE” will help preserve the value of your property!!

A “Yes VOTE” Could Even Produce Less Tax Revenue For The City Of Barstow:

Everyone knows....People will do things to avoid paying higher taxes. Truckers will avoid filling

their tanks here; City residents will shop more in Victorville avoiding our higher sales tax. Raising
taxes on local residents could then actually REDUCE the amount of sales taxes collected!!

Vote NO on Measure D.

s/Steve Stewart
Local Business Owner

s/Clinton Soutar
Local Business Owner

s/Frank Stewart
Local Business Owner

s/Dan Virog
Business Owner

N SB 031-023

MEASURE D

ARGUMENT AGAINST

Barstow Ranks No. 1 in County for Welfare

The San Bernardino County has reported that our City ranks number one when it comes to the
percentage of people receiving aid.

The recent economic slowdown and rising food and gas prices are hurting all of us. If the gas
prices go up we will pay more for sale tax. Let’s not forget that there is talk about the State in
additional, want’s to increase the sales tax. Gasoline and food prices are eating away at our
paychecks. How will the people who live on a fixed income be able to pay an increase in sales
tax? What about our seniors citizens who also live on a fixed income. Will they have the money
to pay for a sale tax increase? Now is not the time.

s/Patrick Aleman
Aurther

N SB 031-024

MEASURE D

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST

PROTECT BARSTOW’S SAFETY - - YES on D!

YES on D hires 9 firefighter/paramedics, 19 firefighters and 11 police officers.

YES on D to protects YOUR home and loved ones.

Our seniors are susceptible to 100 degree summer heat. More firefighter/paramedics are
needed, to respond to their emergency calls - VOTE YES ON D.

YES on D removes the 9-1-1 response fee currently paid by citizens calling 9-1-1.

YES on D means vistors and out of town shoppers are required to help pay for police and fire
services - not just local residents. By law, food purchased as groceries and prescription
medications are exempt from Measure D.

We live on one of the State’s deadliest freeways. Local Police Officers must monitor, stop and
respond to unsafe drivers speeding through Barstow, leaving fewer police officers available to
assist on other types of emergencies.

YES ON D provides more police officers, firefighters and paramedics to ensure you or your loved
ones get to the hospital alive - doctors and medical experts say that the brain starts to deteriorate
four minutes after a person stops breathing.

DEMAND PUBLIC SAFETY - MORE POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS FOR
BARSTOW! VOTE YES on D.

s/Andrew Ellis

Barstow Police Officers Association, President
s/Steve Ross

Barstow Professional Firefighter Association President

s/Carol S. Randall
Business Advocate

s/Robert D. Clemmer
Small Business Owner

s/Jeff L. Eason Sr.

Senior Advocate

N SB 031-025

MEASURE D

ORDINANCE

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BARSTOW ADDING CHAPTER
3.32 TO TITLE 3 OF THE BARSTOW MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING THE LEVY OF A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION PURSUANT TO REVENUE & TAXATION CODE
SECTIONS 7251, ET SEQ. SUBJECT TO VOTER APPROVAL

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BARSTOW DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. MUNICIPAL CODE AMENDMENT. Chapter 3.32 is hereby added to
Title 3 of the Barstow Municipal Code, to read as follows:

“CHAPTER 3.32 PUBLIC SAFETY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

3.32.010 Title and Definitions.

This Chapter shall be known as the “Barstow Crime Prevention/ Firefighter Recruitment
Special Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.” This Chapter shall complement, and not replace
or supersede, Chapter 3.12 of this Code, which imposes the City’s existing sales and use tax.
This Chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City. For Purposes of this
Chapter “City” shall mean the City of Barstow

3.32.020 Purpose.

The ordinance adopting and codifying this Chapter is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a special retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which authorizes the City to adopt this tax. This
Chapter shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Transactions and Use Taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax that can be administered in a manner that
will, to the greatest degree possible, be consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting City transactions and use taxes,
and, at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions thereof.

3.32.030 Operative date.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the approval by the electorate at the November 4, 2008 election of the
ordinance adopting and codifying this Chapter.

N SB 031-026

3.32.040 Contract with State.

Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization
to perform all functions incidental to the administration and operation of this transactions and use
tax ordinance. If the City has not contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract. The City Council
may, by ordinance, make any technical amendments to this Chapter required by the State Board
of Equalization.

3.32.050 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 0.75% of the gross receipts
of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the Operative Date of this ordinance.

3.32.060 Presumption as to Places of Sale.

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

3.32.070 Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the City
of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on or after the operative date of this
Chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.75% of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to State sales and use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.32.080 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of
the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Chapter as though fully set forth
herein.

3.32.090 Limitations on Adoption of State Law Provisions.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or
any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Chapter.

PR-8004-7	N	SB	031-027

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

(A)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(B)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged
in business in this State” in Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and in the definition
of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.32.100 Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this Chapter.

3.32.110 Exemptions and exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions and use tax the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of
any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators
of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the
City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(A)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

(B)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be
operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for
a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

N SB 031-028

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for
any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
the lease prior to the Operative Date.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this subsection (b), the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	There	are	exempted	from the use tax imposed by this Chapter, the storage, use or

other consumption in the City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the Operative Date.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises, under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of
time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to
the operative date of this Chapter.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this subsection (c), storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7) of this subsection (c), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the
authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser
who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable
for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

N SB 031-029

3.32.120 Amendments to State Law.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Chapter to Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this Chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this Chapter.

3.32.130 Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
state or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter, or part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.32.140 Establishment of Funds and Use of Tax Proceeds.

(a)	Upon receipt by the City from the State Board of Equalization (or other agency of the
State of California) of proceeds of the taxes levied and imposed by this Chapter, sixty-nine
percent (69%) of such proceeds shall be deposited into a special fund designated “Transactions
and Use Tax Fire/EMS Fund” and thirty-one percent (31%) of such proceeds shall be deposited
into a special fund designated “Transactions and Use Tax Police Services Fund,” which funds are
hereby established. Monies in these funds shall be separately accounted for from the other funds
of the City, and interest earned on fund balances shall accrue to the fund upon which such
interest was earned.

(b)	Tax proceeds, and interest thereon in the “Transactions and Use Tax Fire/EMS Fund”
may be used only to (1) obtain, furnish, operate and maintain fire protection and emergency
medical services equipment and apparatus, (2) pay salaries and benefits of fire protection and
emergency medical services personnel, (3) pay expenses associated with training and recruiting
fire protection and emergency medical services personnel, (4) pay expenses associated with the
operation of a dispatch and emergency communications system for fire protection and emergency
medical services and (5) pay such other fire protection and emergency medical services
expenses, including capital expenses, as are deemed necessary by the City Council for the
benefit of the residents of the City.

(c)	Tax proceeds, and interest thereon, in the “Transactions and Use Tax Police Fund”
may be used only to (1) obtain, furnish, operate and maintain equipment and vehicles to be used
by sworn law enforcement officers, (2) pay salaries and benefits of sworn law enforcement
officers, (3) pay expenses associated with training and recruiting sworn law enforcement officers
and (4) pay expenses associated with the operation of a dispatch and emergency
communications system for police services.

(d)	The City Council shall adopt a “Public Safety Special Tax Budgeting Document,” which
it may from time to time amend. Proceeds of the taxes imposed by this Chapter, and the interest
thereon, shall be expended only in a manner that is consistent with the Budgeting Document;
provided, however, that no expenditure may be made that would violate any requirement of this
Section.

(e)	A goal of the Budgeting Document shall be to “To hire enough new police
officers/firefighters/paramedics to fight gangs/crime; shut down meth /drug hotspots; meet
minimum firefighter/paramedic staffing levels; and acquire police, fire and emergency safety
equipment.” The City Council may adopt additional goals from time to time, and may set the
relative priorities of all goals, including the goal set forth in this subsection (e).

(f)	The City Council is authorized to enter into one or more agreements with the Barstow
Fire Protection District pursuant to which the City will make payments to the District from the
Transactions and Use Tax Fire Fund to fund expenses authorized by subsection (b) of this

N SB 031-030

Section incurred in connection with services provided by the District within the geographic
boundaries of the City.

(g)	Proceeds of the taxes imposed by this Chapter, and the interest thereon, shall not be
expended to pay the salaries and benefits of administrative personnel who do not directly provide
fire protection, emergency medical, police, or emergency dispatch services.

(h)	For purposes of Revenue & Taxation Code Section 7285.91, subdivisions (a), (b), (c),
and (g) of this Section shall constitute the expenditure plan for the taxes imposed pursuant to this
Chapter.

(i)	This Section shall constitute the statement indicating the specific purposes of a special
tax as required by Government Code Section 50075.1(a). Proceeds of the taxes imposed by this
Chapter, and the interest thereon, shall be expended only as set forth in this Chapter.

3.32.150 Citizen’s Oversight Committee—Organization.

(a)	The City Council shall appoint a Citizen’s Oversight Committee to monitor the
expenditures of proceeds of the taxes imposed by this Chapter, and the interest thereon

(b)	The Committee shall consist of five members. All Committee members shall be
residents of the City of Barstow. No member of the Committee shall be a current employee,
official or officer of the City of Barstow or of the Barstow Fire Protection District.

(c)	The term of a member of the Committee shall be two years. However, in order to
stagger the terms of Committee members, the initial terms for three of the five seats shall be
three years. When appointing the initial members of the Committee, the City Council shall
designate which of the three members shall hold the three-year seats. All subsequent terms for
these three-year seats shall be two years. No member of the Committee shall serve more than
three consecutive terms.

(d)	Committee members whose terms expire shall continue to serve until their successor is
appointed and qualified. If a vacancy occurs other than by expiration of a term, it shall be filled by
appointment for the unexpired portion of the term.

(e)	Absence from four consecutive regular meetings without the formal consent of the
Committee shall be deemed to constitute retirement of such Committee member from the
Committee, and the position of such retired member shall be deemed vacant.

(f)	Committee members shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council and may be
removed from office by the sole determination of the City Council, with or without cause, notice,
hearing or appeal.

(g)	The Committee may adopt rules and regulations to govern its proceedings and shall set
a time for regular meetings which shall be held at least once each quarter. The Committee shall
elect a chairman, vice-chairman and secretary. Their respective duties shall be as are usually
carried out by such officers. Officers shall hold office for one year and until their successors are
elected. A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

(h)	All meetings of the Committee shall be conducted pursuant to the Ralph M. Brown Act
and all minutes and reports of the Committee are public records which shall be available pursuant
to the California Public Records Act.

3.32.160 Citizen’s Oversight Committee-- Powers and duties.

(a) The Committee established pursuant to Section 3.32.150 of this Chapter shall (1)
review expenditures of the proceeds of the taxes imposed by this Chapter and the interest
thereon, to determine whether such funds are expended in a manner consistent with Section
3.32.140 of this Chapter and (2) issue a report on its findings not less than annually. The
Committee shall confine its oversight specifically to the disposition of proceeds of the tax imposed
PR-8004-11	N SB 031 -031

by this Chapter, and the interest thereon,. Revenue generated from other sources, and the uses
of such revenues, shall be outside the jurisdiction of the Committee.

(b)	In	order to preserve the integrity and independence of the oversight process,

Committee members shall not play a formal role in contracting, project management, or any other
aspect of the use of proceeds of the taxes imposed by this Ordinance, or the interest thereon. .

(c)	The	Committee is not charged with decision-making on spending priorities, schedules,

project details, funding source decisions, financing plans, or tax rate assumptions. The
Committee shall serve in only an advisory role to the City Council. The Committee shall have no
jurisdiction, powers or duties other than as delegated to it in this Section by the City Council.

(d)	The City Manager or his designee shall provide any reasonable administrative or
technical assistance required by the Committee to fulfill its responsibilities or publicize its findings.

3.32.170. Audit and Annual Report,

(a)	The City’s expenditure of the proceeds of the taxes imposed by this Chapter, and the
interest thereon, shall be reviewed annually by an independent auditor in conjunction with, and as
part of, the City’s usual annual financial audit, and the results of such review shall be made
available for inspection by the public.

(b)	The City’s Finance Director shall at least once a year file with the City Council the
annual report required by Government Code Section 50075.1 (d), which report shall set forth
both: (1) The amount of funds collected and expended and (2) the status of any projects required
or authorized to be funded as identified in Section 3.32.140 of this Chapter.”

SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court
of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of
this ordinance. The City Council of the City of Barstow hereby declares that it would have
adopted this ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more section, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared invalid or unconstitutional or void for any other reason.

SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE AND SUBMISSION TO VOTERS. This Ordinance
relates to the levying and collecting of City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
immediately. However, no tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be effective unless that tax has
been approved by the voters of the City, at an election held on November 4, 2008, as required by
Section 2(b) of Article XII 1C of the California Constitution and applicable law.

SECTION 4. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION. Subsequent to the approval of this
Ordinance by the electorate, City Council may amend Chapter 3.32 of the Municipal Code to
reduce the rate of the taxes imposed by this Ordinance below that approved by the electorate, or
to repeal the taxes entirely, without further vote of the electorate. If the tax rate is repealed or
reduced, the City Council shall give written notification of the repeal or reduction to the Board of
Equalization no later than 110 days prior to the operative date of the repeal, which shall be on the
last day of a calendar quarter. However, as required by Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution, no amendment to Chapter 3.32 of the Municipal Code may increase the rates of the
taxes above what is authorized by this Ordinance unless such amendment is submitted to and
approved by the voters. Furthermore, the City Council shall take no action that amends
subdivisions (a), (b), (c), and (g) of Section 3.32.140 of the Municipal Code or that would cause
the rate of the taxes imposed by this Ordinance, so long as they are effective, to be a rate that is
not a multiple of .25 percent.

N SB 031-032