
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
SANTA BARBARA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE H2008

California Constitution, Article X11IA, section 4 and the California
Government Code (§ 50075 et seq.) authorize a school district,
upon approval of the voters within the district by a two-thirds
vote (2/3), to impose a special tax on real property parcels
within the district

This measure, if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters within
the Santa Barbara High School District (the "District") will
authorize the District to levy a parcel tax of $23 per year against
each parcel of land that lies wholly or partially within District
boundaries that has been assigned an assessor's parcel
number, (The full text of the measure is printed in the ballot
pamphlet.)

The parcel tax is to be levied for four (4) fiscal years, without
increase, beginning in the fiscal year starting July 1, 2009 and
ending in the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012. The parcel tax
shall be collected in the same manner and will be subject to the
same interest and penalties as general property taxes and the
proceeds will be deposited into a separate restricted account
and shall be used only for the following specific purposes:

•	Supplementing math, science and technology education;

•	Supplementing music, arts and theater programs at the
junior high level;

•	Supplementing foreign language at the secondary level;

•	Restoring ninth-grade math class sizes;

•	Providing a citizens oversight committee; and

•	Providing independent financial audits.

An annual written report will be made to the District’s Board of
Education (the "Board") showing (1) the amount of funds
collected and expended from tax proceeds, (2) the status of any
projects or programs funded by the parcel tax listed above, and
(3) an annual independent financial audit. Tax proceeds shall
not be spent on administrative salaries. •

The oversight committee shall advise the Board on expenditures
funded by the measure to ensure funds are only spent for the
purposes stated in the measure by the District. Charter schools
authorized by the District shall share in the tax funding,

■ proportional to the enrollment of students from the District and
will report annually to the Board and community Dn how tax
funds have been spent.

Any owner, that is 65 years of age or older, of a parcel used
solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes
may receive an exemption from the parcel tax by annually
submitting an application by June 15 of each year to the Board
in accordance with the Board's adopted rules and regulations.

A YES vote means the measure and parcel tax are
APPROVED.

A NO vote means the measure and parcel tax are
NOT APPROVED.

Isl Dennis A. Marshall
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H2008
SANTA BARBARA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

The Santa Barbara High School District has provided a high-
quality educational program for 142 years. Due to substantial
state budget cuts, local schools need supplemental local tax
dollars to fund programs that provide our students with the
highest quality education. Measure H2006 will provide a stable,
consistent, locally controlled funding source.

The $23 per year investment equals about per day toward
the education of over 10,000 students in the Santa Barbara
High School District.

Measure H2008 will allow the Santa Barbara High School
District to:

•	Supplement math, science, and technology education;

•	Enhance music, art, and theater programs at the junior
high school level;

•	Supplement secondary foreign language courses;

•	Restore ninth-grade math class sizes.

Measure H2006 will improve the Santa Barbara High School
District by:

•	Enhancing math, science, foreign language, and
technology education programs, providing the competitive
edge our students need to succeed beyond high school.

•	Maintaining high-quality music, arts, and theater programs
which bring together students with diverse backgrounds
and offer positive opportunities for at-risk youth.

•	Enhancing rigorous standards-based instruction and best
teaching practices for student achievement

•	Providing support to all Junior and senior high schools.

Measure H2008 protects taxpayers by:

•	Requiring that all funds be used locatly to improve the
Santa Barbara High School District.

•	Creating an independent citizen oversight committee.

•	' Requiring annual reporting on expenditures and annual

independent financial audits.

•	Requiring compliance with accountability measures as
determined by law.

•	Expiring in four years unless reauthorized by voters.

•	Providing an exemption from the measure for senior
citizens, when requested.

Measure H2Q0B is an essential investment in public education
and in our community; quality public schools enhance property
values.

* Please join us in investing In the future of our children.

The undersigned proponent(s) of the primary argument in favor
of ballot Measure H2008 at the Presidential General Election to
be held on November 4, 2008, hereby state(s) that such
argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and
belief.

Is! Larry Crandell, Community Volunteer
Isf Michael Bennett, Mayor, City of Goleta
fsf Jean Blots, Councilmember, City of Goleta
Is/ Lanny Ebenstein, Former Trustee, Santa Barbara High
School District

/s/ Claire VanBlaricum, Former Trustee, Santa Barbara High
School District

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE H2008
SANTA BARBARA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

Tax and spend bureaucrats always claim the sky is falling
unless you give them more money. This is followed by
promises that are seldom kept. Why does the district need a
parcel tax to fill cuts in the classrooms, while squandering
money elsewhere?

If education is their priority then why has the district done the
following?

Created a position of Deputy Superintendent, salary
$186,000 per year, instead of funding your child's music
program?

Built pools that can only be heated, filtered, and lit by cutting
your school's science or art program?

Promoted increased nighttime stadium lit activities, vastly
increasing energy costs, rather than funding technology
programs?

Bloated administrative salaries while cutting language
programs?

Why Vote NO?

-	The Santa Barbara School District has not managed your
tax dollars well.

Measure H is so vague that any use of the money could be
justified.

-	The funds are spread across so many programs as to be
ineffective.

Parcel taxation is as unreliable as a funding source as the
state process.

-	The senior exemption could reduce the revenue by 20%.

Why are academic programs always cut first? It is time to
demand that education be our highest priority!

Bring change by Voting No on H2008! if the district wants tax
money, let them specify the programs, amounts and sites where
the monies will be spent.

You are free to donate to your favorite teacher or program, but
Vote No on Measure HI

The undersigned author(s) of the rebuttal to the argument in
favor of Ballot measure H200B at the General election for the
Santa Barbara High School District to be held on November 4,
2008 hereby state that such argument is true and correct to the
best of their knowledge and belief.

is! Richard Foster, Taxpayer
Is I Harry S Rouse, Taxpayer
/s/ Alwyn N. Hartnett, Taxpayer
/s/ Carmen L Rouse, Home Owner
fsl Dolores L Hartnett, Home Owner

N SR 005-039

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H2008
SANTA BARBARA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

Taxpayers should vote NO on H. The Santa Barbara
School District has a horrible record of delivering what
they promise to do. Secondly, they have had years of
chaotic, revolving door leadership. Thirdly, if this passes
they will be back in four years demanding even more
money while threatening to terminate your favorite
programs.

How many annual budget fiascos have we seen? Yet
administrative salaries have skyrocketed. In 2000, the
Superintendent’s salary was $126,796. This year it is
$200,566, an increase of $73.770. Yet, they lay off
teachers!

Bond Measure Vs stated purpose was "To repair and
upgrade every school in the Santa Barbara High School
District and achieve facility parity, replace old portables.”
Yet, $100,000,000 later Santa Barbara High hasn't had a
functioning cafeteria for two years! Instead of parity, they
built three different sized pools, which were not even
mentioned on the ballot, and they never replaced a single
portable!

Bond oversight doesn’t help. At the 4/4/2006
Measure V Bond oversight meeting, a member
complained of a $2.2 million dollar difference between
school board and bond committee reports. He stated,
“These (financial) statements will make great anti-bond
campaign material!" Indeed, how can we expect them to
do any better with a parcel tax?

How will it be spent? At the 6/24/08 Board meeting
• Dr. Sarvis said the elected board would not determine
how the money was spent. A board member suggested
that a parcel tax would free up monies for the general
fund. The only way it could do that would be to strip
existing funding from one program and replace it with
parcel tax money.

Schools need money, but the public should be able to
trust the district. They must earn our trust by proving
themselves reliable, and competent before asking for our
tax dollars.

“The undersigned author(s) of the argument against
Ballot measure H at the General election for the Santa
Barbara High School District to be held on November 4,
2008 hereby state that such argument is true and correct
to the best of their knowledge and belief."

Isl Carmen B Rouse
Isl Alwyn N. Hartnett
/s/ Richard A Foster
/s/ Dolores L. Hartnett
Is/ Harry S Rouse

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE H2008
SANTA BARBARA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

As a community, we should invest in our local schools.
State funding simply does not provide local control of local tax
dollars. Measure H restores local control by requiring the funds
raised be used for specific programs detailed in the ballot

measure.

Measure H2008 would result in:

•	New junior high electives in music, theatre arts, and foreign
languages

•	New senior high electives in foreign languages

•	Acquisition and repair of musical instruments

•	9th grade class size reduction In math to 20 students to 1
teacher

•	Improvements In science and technology

The $23 per parcel tax would be for 4 years. It would
expire at that time, and any continuing parcel assessment
would require a new vote of the people. This is the strongest
guarantee that funds will be spent as intended.

At a time when gangs are of concern and when young
people need more to do, there are few more effective and
worthwhile expenditures than $23 per year to allow substantial
improvements and additions to our Junior and senior high
educational program. No parcel would be taxed more than $23.
There would be an exemption for senior citizens who requested
it.

Santa Barbara, Goleta, and Montecito have traditionally
had excellent public junior highs and high schools. Measure
H200B will enable this tradition of excellence to continue.

Please join with us in voting for Measure H2008. Support
Measure H200B and Invest in our future while restoring local
control of our tax dollars.

YES ON H200BI

[The undersigned proponents of the rebuttal to the argument
against ballot measure H2008 at the general election for the
Santa Barbara High School District to be held on November 4,
2008, hereby state that this rebuttal is true and correct to the
best of his/her/their knowledge and belief.]

Isl Lois Capps, Member of Congress
/s/ Salud Carbajal, Santa Barbara County Supervisor
Isl Dale Francisco, Santa Barbara City Councilmember
Isl Phil Bugay, Regent Emeritus, University of California
Isl Peter MacDougall, Past President, Santa Barbara City
College

N SR 006-040

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE H2008
SANTA BARBARA HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue to provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the
State and to maintain the high quality of community schools, the
Santa Barbara High School District proposes to adopt an
education parcel tax for a period of 4 years, beginning July 1,
2009, at the rate of $23 per year, wit out increase, on each
parcel located within the Santa Barbara High School District,
with an exemption available for senior citizens, and to
implement accountability measures in connection with the
special assessment that are over and above those required by
law, including the appointment of an independent community
advisory board (citizen’s review committee) to provide oversight
and accountability to ensure the funds are used for:

•	Supplementing math, science, and technology
education;

•	Supplementing	music, arts and theater programs

at the junior high school level;

•	Supplementing	foreign language at the secondary

level;

•	Restoring ninth-grade math class sizes; and

•	Protecting the taxpayers' investment in education
and ensuring District accountability by providing
for a Proposition 39-model citizens oversight
committee and independent financial audits of
revenues and expenditures,

AMOUNT OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF
ASSESSMENT

The education parcel tax shall be $23 (or less as provided
below) per year for four (4) years assessed against each parcel
within the boundaries of the Santa Barbara High School District
The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into
a separate account created by the District

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the special tax, the term “Parcel" means any
parcel of land that lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of
the Santa Barbara High School District, for which the Assessor
of the County of Santa Barbara, as applicable, has assigned an
Assessor’s parcel number.

EXEMPTION OF SENIORS

Pursuant to California Government Code section 50079 (b), any
owners who are 65 years of age or older of a Parcel used solely
for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes may
obtain an exemption from the education parcel tax by annually
submitting an application by June 15 of each year to the Board
of Education of the Santa Barbara High School District in
accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the Board.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government
Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following account-
ability measures, among others, shall apply to the education
parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those
purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the education
parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes
identified above and shall not be spent on administrative
salaries; (c) a separate, special restricted fund shall be created
into which the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be
deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the
Board of Education of the District showing (i) the amount of

funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the
education parcel tax and (ii)the status of any projects or
programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds
of the education parcel tax, as identified above; and (e) an
annual independent financial audit of revenues and
expenditures shall be required.

In addition to the accountability measures required by law, an
independent community oversight committee shall be appointed
by the Board of Education to advise the Board on the
expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that said
funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The
oversight committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds
by the District and its charter schools will report on an annual
basis to the Board and community on how these funds have
been spent.

DISTRIBUTION OF PARCEL TAX FUNDS

Charter schools authorized by the district shall share in the
parcel tax funding, proportional to the enrollment of students
from the Santa Barbara School Districts.

