SAN LEANDRO UTILITY USER TAX REDUCTION AND FAIRNESS MEASURE RR	
MEASURE RR: Shall an  U ordinance be adopted to 111 reduce the City of San Leandro’s existing utility users’ tax from 6% to 5.7% on telecommunications and v like) services; ensure that users of curren technologies be treated fairly; and preserve general municipal services such as police, of and improvements to city streets and si( graffiti removal?	YES
	NO
	ideo (cable- t and future funding for naintenance iewalks and

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE RR
City of San Leandro Utility User Tax Reduction
and Fairness

The San Leandro City Council has placed a measure on
the November 4, 2008 ballot asking voters to adopt an
ordinance adding Chapter 2-17 of Title 2 of the San Lean-
dro Municipal Code to update the City’s utility users tax
(UUT). San Leandro Municipal Code Chapter 2-4 current-
ly imposes a UUT charged to persons utilizing electrical
energy; gas delivered through mains or pipes; using
intrastate, interstate and international telephone service
and using cable television service furnished by a cable
television corporation within the City. The tax is collected
by service providers from customers. All UUT revenue is
deposited in the City’s general fund and used for general
governmental purposes including police, maintenance and
improvements to city streets and sidewalks and parks and
recreation programs. The proposed measure enacts a tax
that reflects changes in modern technology, meets current
legal standards and lowers the tax rate from 6% to 5.7% on
telecommunication and video services.

When San Leandro’s UUT ordinance was initially adopt-
ed, the ordinance followed the pattern of nearly all other
UUT ordinances. In particular, in defining the circum-
stances where the UUT could be collected on telecommu-
nication services, the ordinance makes specific reference
to the Federal Excise Tax (FET) with respect to its appli-
cation. The definitions and terminology contained in the
ordinance have not been changed since the UUT was
adopted. Consistent with an IRS ruling in 1979, San Lean-
dro’s UUT and FET have been assessed for telephone
charges that are based on time and distance, as well as cel-
lular phones and rate plans that are based only on time or
bundled plans, which combine billing for various types of
services.

After revolutionary changes in telephone communication
technology and customer billing methods, the IRS has
faced legal challenges to its collection of the FET for wire-
less communications services that are billed based on time
only or “bundled” billing plans. On May 25,2006, the IRS
reversed its long standing interpretation and ruled that the
FET would no longer apply to wireless communications
that are billed in such a manner. The key legal issue is

whether the reference to the FET in San Leandro’s ordi-
nance could jeopardize the continued collection of the
City’s UUT.

The proposed measure amends the ordinance to address
the FET legal issue and also incorporates modem termi-
nology to remain current with evolving communications
technology. The proposed amendment treats users com-
munications services in a uniform and equitable manner,
regardless of the means of transmission or technology
used.

If this measure is adopted, most technology users will not
see much change in their monthly bills, and those using
traditional local and long distance telephone services will
see a tax rate drop. For wireless customers, there may be a
nominal increase for services such as text messaging, and
those using private communication services will see a
nominal tax increase. Internet services such as email,
browsers and digital download will not be taxed.

A majority vote of the electorate is required for adoption.
s/JAYNE W. WILLIAMS
City Attorney
City of San Leandro

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE RR
(Utility Users Tax)

While reducing the tax rate, Measure RR will modernize
the 38-year-old San Leandro Utility Users Tax (UUT). San
Leandro’s Utility Users Tax helps fund much used munic-
ipal services like our libraries, parks, streets and side-
walks, senior and youth programs, fire and police.

We want our tax system to be fair to everyone. Phone
communication technology has changed significantly
since the UUT was first introduced in November 1970,
and Measure RR updates the law’s descriptions and defin-
itions in order to make sure the UUT is applied uniformly
across current technologies.

Measure RR is not a new tax. Measure RR reduces the
tax rate from 6.0% to 5.7%. This measure protects rev-
enue needed to preserve valued quality of life services.
Please vote Yes on Measure RR.
s/Anthony B. Santos
Mayor, City of San Leandro
s/Luster Knight
Recreation and Parks Commissioner
s/Donna Reed
Library-Historical Commissioner
s/Alice Sarafian
Chair, Human Services Commission
s/Barbara Hamrick
San Leandro Senior Commissioner

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE RR WAS
SUBMITTED.

SLRR-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE RR

IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
SAN LEANDRO
ORDINANCE NO. 2008-
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF SAN LEANDRO, CALIFORNIA
ADDING CHAPTER 2-17 OF TITLE 2 TO THE SAN
LEANDRO MUNICIPAL CODE WITH RESPECT
TO A COMMUNICATION USERS’ TAX
THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN LEAN-
DRO, CALIFORNIA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1. Chapter 2-17 of the San Leandro Munic-
ipal Code is hereby added, and it shall read as follows:
ARTICLE 1. GENERAL.

2-17-100 Short Title.

This chapter shall be known as the “Communication
Users’ Tax Law” of the City of San Leandro.

2-17-105 Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in
this Chapter shall be construed as defined in this section.

(a)	“Ancillary telecommunication services” means ser-
vices that are associated with or incidental to the provi-
sion, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services,
including but not limited to the following services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary
service that links two or more participants of an audio
or video conference call and may include the provision
of a telephone number. Conference bridging service
does not include the telecommunications services used
to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunications billing service”
means an ancillary service of separately stating infor-
mation pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s
billing statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service
of providing telephone number information, and/or
address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is
offered in connection with one or more telecommuni-
cations services, which offers advanced calling fea-
tures that allow customers to identify callers and to
manage multiple calls and call connections, including
conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that
enables the customer to store, send or receive recorded
messages. Voice mail service does not include any ver-
tical services that the customer may be required to have
in order to utilize the voice mail service.

(b)	“Ancillary video services” means services that are
associated with or incidental to the provision or delivery
of video services, including but not limited to electronic
program guide services, recording services, search func-
tions, or other interactive services or communications that
are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or
enjoyment of video services.

(c)	“Billing Address” shall mean the mailing address of
the service user where the service supplier submits invoic-

es or bills for payment by the customer.

(d)	“City” shall mean the City of San Leandro.

(e)	“Communication Services” means: “telecommuni-
cations services”, “ancillary telecommunication services”,
“video services” and “ancillary video services”.

(f)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the
meaning and usage as set forth in the Mobile Telecommu-
nications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the reg-
ulations thereunder.

(g)	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

(h)	“Paging Service” means a “telecommunications
service” that provides transmission of coded radio signals
for the purpose of activating specific pagers; such trans-
missions may include messages and/or sounds.

(i)	“Person” shall mean, without limitation, any natur-
al individual, firm, trust, common law trust, estate, part-
nership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint
stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
corporation (including foreign, domestic, and non-profit),
municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the
City) cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other rep-
resentative appointed by order of any court.

(j)	“Place of Primary Use” means the street address
representative of where the customer’s use of the commu-
nications service primarily occurs, which must be the resi-
dential street address or the primary business street
address of the customer.

(k)	“Post-paid telecommunication service” means the
telecommunication service obtained by making a payment
on a communication-by-communication basis either
through the use of a credit card or payment mechanism
such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card,
or by charge made to a service number which is not asso-
ciated with the origination or termination of the telecom-
munication service.

(l)	“Prepaid telecommunication service” means the
right to access telecommunication services, which must be
paid for in advance and which enables the origination of
communications using an access number or authorization
code, whether manually or electronically dialed, and that
is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the num-
ber declines with use in a known amount.

(m)	“Private telecommunication service” means a
telecommunication service that entitles the customer to
exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or
group of channels between or among termination points,
regardless of the manner in which such channel or chan-
nels are connected, and includes switching capacity,
extension lines, stations, and any other associated services
that are provided in connection with the use of such chan-
nel or channels. A communications channel is a physical
or virtual path of communications over which signals are
transmitted between or among customer channel termina-
tion points (i.e., the location where the customer either
inputs or receives the communications).

(n)	“Service Address” means either:

(1) The location of the service user’s communica-
tion equipment from which the communication originates