
<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The County Board of Supervisors approved this ballot measure to be submitted to the voters
This ballot measure, identified as Proposition A, is a proposed County ordinance entitled "An Ordinance to Improve and Enhance Firefighting Resources & Services by Adoption of a Regional
and Local Fire Protection Parcel Tax " All voters in the entire County, Including voters in all the
cities and the County's unincorporated area, are asked to vote on Proposition A.

The purpose of Proposition A’s proposed ordinance is to adopt a County special tax (known as the fire protection parcel tax) so that the tax revenues can be used to improve and enhance firefighting resources for regional and local purposes. In addition this proposed ordinance provides for the establishment of a countywide joint powers agency, which would be
named the San Diego Regional Fire Protection Agency ("Regional Agency") that will manage and administer, and oversee the regional parcel tax funding for the deployment of regional firefighting resources and services. 
A vote of two-thirds (2/3rds) of the voters voting on Proposition A is required to approve the
ordinance. If approved, the ordinance would be adopted and a special tax applied to all real
property parcels. The base rate of the tax would be $52/parcel per year. For large parcels, and large structures/improvements on parcels, this base rate would be increased by $1.00 for each acre in excess of 50 acres on a parcel, and 1 cent for each square foot in excess of 10,000 square feet of a structure/improvement. The maximum tax cannot exceed $1,000/year.   The tax rate and maximum tax are subject to an annual adjustment based on the local consumer Price Index. The duration of the tax is limited to 30 years. 

The tax revenues would generate approximately $50 million/year. Half the revenues would be allocated to the Regional Agency for regional purposes, and the other half to local agencies for local purposes. The local agencies include the County, all 18 cities, and all local agencies responsible for providing fire protection services within the incorporated area. The local agencies are required to continue to spend a specified level of their own funds on fire protection in order to receive their full allocation of parcel tax revenues. 

If this ballot measure is approved, the local agencies will enter into a Joint Powers Agreement that will create the Regional Agency. The Regional Agency’s governing body includes 10 voting members: one member from the Board of Supervisors, the Major of the City of San Diego, four city council members from four of the remaining 17 cities, and four members from local agencies in the incorporated area that provide fire protection service. 

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of adopting the proposed ordinance. 

A “no” vote is a vote against adopting the proposed ordinance. <impartialend> 







<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

We've all witnessed, first hand, the devastating impact on our community of two major firestorms in the past five years. All told, these fires claimed 27 lives, destroyed more than 4,000 homes and led,to one of the largest mass evacuations in American history.

Experts agree it is only a matter of time before another wildfire strikes our region again.

Passage of PROPORTION A will dramatically improve our ability to fight future wildfires and significantly bolster day-to-day emergency services in every corner of our region.

Most importantly, passage of PROPOSITION A will provide necessary funding for the immediate acquisition of new fire trucks, new firefighting helicopters and aerial tankers- all to be used
exclusively here in our local neighborhoods.	

PROPOSITION A will provide the funds required to upgrade our emergency communication system, which will allow firefighters, police officers, dispatchers and other emergency responders
to communicate with each other much more effectively.	^

PROPOSITION A will also strengthen local brush management and brush clearance programs, reducing the very fuel that enables wildfires to spread.	

PROPOSITION A provides for the establishment of Regional Fire Protection Agency to ensure better coordinated responses, resulting in quicker response times, and greater efficiency.

All of this can be accomplished with most property owners contributing only one dollar per week!

PROPOSITION A has strong taxpayer safeguards. It requires that proceeds be shared between rural fire districts and urban fire departments, ensuring that fire services in the entire region are improved. It also guarantees that funds cannot be diverted for other purposes or taken for use by either the state or federal government. 

Please join community leaders, your neighbors and firefighters in ensuring we have the resources and equipment we need before we face that next, inevitable wildfire. Vote yes on PROPOSITION A! <favorend>






<favorsigs> JERRY SANDERS
Mayor of San Diego

MARK BAKER
Fire Chief/President,

San Diego County Fire District Association

WILLIAM B. KOLENDER
Sheriff

AUGUST GHIO
Fire Chief/President,

San Diego County Fire Chiefs' Association

GREG COX
Chair, Board of Supervisors
Chair, San Diego County Unified Disaster Council <favorsigsend> 



<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

In the teeth of this recession, with record energy prices, soaring unemployment and plummeting
home values, the county presents its solution - RAISE TAXES! What are they smoking?!

This tax is for fire protection, which should be a top priority for government. But we already pay
plenty of taxes to provide firefighting.

If we need more money for this critical service, we should SHIFT funds from other less important
government functions - such as the current policy of providing most thirty year county workers
with two pensions that together far exceed their highest salary.

It's bad enough that politicians want to raise taxes. But this time they are after the poorest and
weakest of our citizens.

This parcel tax charges the same $52 to almost all property owners - residential and business.
Hence it is EXTREMELY regressive, hurting the working class and retirees the most. A two
million dollar homeowner will pay the same parcel tax as a $200,000 condo owner.

Equally disturbing is that the county and local jurisdictions refuse to pursue more innovative, cost
effective options to fight our infrequent but devastating brush fires. Options such as:

•	Ask our thousands of firefighter-trained military to help fight the fires, especially in
suburbia.

•	Form an emergency reserve volunteer firefighter brigade.

•	Train homeowners who want to stay and defend their homes - especially suburban
homes - from the brush fire embers that cause most house fires.

In this recession, California politicians have gone tax crazy. Our state and local ballots will be
filled with taxes and bonds galore. It's time to say no to ALL the tax increases.

And especially to this parcel tax. If this measure passes, count on more parcel tax propositions in
future elections. We pay more than enough taxes now. Vote NO on A.  <againstend>




<againstsigs> RICHARD RIDER	Chairman, San Diego Tax Fighters	
ALLEN P. HEMPHILL Newspaper	Columnist

JOE SHEFFO Candidate, Encinitas City Council	
GARY PIETILA Ranchita Homeowner


MICHAEL BENOIT
Chair, Libertarian Party of San Diego County <againstsigsend>





<rebutfavor> Here's what Proposition A proponents neglected to tell you:

San Diego County adopted a 2007-2008 budget of about $4.7 billion, over 8% higher than the previous year. County revenues have soared in recent years, but our Supervisors have chosen not to fund these firefighting improvements from their swollen budgets.
By supporting this tax, our Supervisors essentially are deciding that all other budget spending is more important than firefighting - that there isn't $50 million to be found in a $4.7 BILLION county budget. That's about ONE PERCENT of the budget. Amazing!
Aside from sheriffs and jails, what other county spending category could possibly be as important as fighting brush fires? Judging from our Supervisors' decision, apparently just about EVERYTHING else is more important than firefighting.
Our County Supervisors annually distribute $10 million from their taxpayer-funded discretionary accounts (informally known as their "slush funds"). They give only a pittance of this money to firefighting - most goes to narrow special interest groups.
Perhaps if firefighters started funding trips overseas for the Supervisors, they'd have more luck getting these discretionary funds. Sure seemed to work for other groups!
Tax hikers in just about every local government probably are hoping this parcel tax passes. If it does, it likely will encourage politicians to bring forward more and probably larger parcel taxes in the future. Hence this issue is far bigger than "only a dollar a week."
This tax rises with a cost of living index. Bad idea!
Enough! No new taxes. No on Prop A!
http://www.NoSDParcelTax.com <rebutfavorend>





<rebutfavorsigs> THE HONORABLE JOEL ANDERSON
Assemblyman, 77th District
LOUIS P. KARTSONIS, M.D.
Physician/Ophthalmologist

RUTH M. STERLING
La Mesa City Councilwoman
PAT FLANNERY
Real Estate Broker

RICHARD RIDER
Chairman, San Diego Tax Fighter <rebutfavorsigsend>





<rebutagainst> Thousands of homes in our communities were burned to the ground by raging wildfires in 2003 and 2007.

When the next firestorm strikes, the San Diego region must be better prepared!

Proposition A will provide funds for equipment our fire fighters desperately need to protect the people of San Diego County.

Proposition A will allow our fire departments and local governments to acquire equipment critical for fighting fires, like helicopters, aerial tankers and fire trucks.

Proposition A will fund much-needed upgrades to communication systems currently relied upon by emergency personnel during disasters.

The short-sighted opponents of Proposition A would have you believe that we already have enough money to pay for the increased fire protection we need. They simplistically suggest that money be taken away from other important services to fund fire protection. But this could cripple police service, undermine road repairs, cut library hours and even shut down parks.

San Diegans understand that robbing Peter to pay Paul by putting existing services at risk is just a bad idea, not a solution.

Proposition A will fund aggressive brush clearing, vegetation management, flammable materials removal programs; and greater public education to prevent fires from starting and spreading.

And most importantly, funds generated by Proposition A will stay right here in San Diego County. These funds cannot be used for anything other than expanding our region's fire fighting services and increasing fire protection.

When the next devastating wildfire strikes, will San Diego County be ready? The decision is ours. Please vote YES on Proposition A. <rebutagainstend>




<rebutagainstsigs> RON ROBERTS, County Supervisor
Co-Chair, Regional Fire Protection Committee
JAMES A. FLOROS
Executive Director, Burn Institute

WILLIAM B. KOLENDER
Sheriff
IRVING "JAKE" JACOBY, MD, FACP, FACEP
Board Certified Emergency Medicine Physician
Disaster Medical Response Specialist

TRACY JARMAN, Fire Chief
City of San Diego <rebutagainstsigsend> 








<full> AN ORDINANCE TO IMPROVE AND ENHANCE FIREFIGHTING
RESOURCES & SERVICES BY ADOPTION OF A
REGIONAL AND LOCAL FIRE PROTECTION PARCEL TAX

The People of the County of San Diego ordain as follows:

Section 1. Statement of Purpose.

The wildfires that occurred within the County of San Diego in 2003 and 2007 have demonstrated the
need for additional funding for fire protection resources and services, both on a regional and local
basis. In addition, there is a need for a regional organization, consisting of public agency
representatives from all areas within the County, to manage, administer, and oversee the regional
funding for the deployment of regional firefighting resources and services.

Therefore, the People of the County of San Diego hereby approve this Ordinance to adopt a County
special tax on parcels of real property in San Diego County to be used to fund fire protection
equipment, firefighting, apd related services to prevent and to fight fires on both a regional and local
level. In addition, this ordinance provides for the establishment of a countywide joint powers
authority, entitled the "San Diego Regional Fire Protection Agency," to manage, administer, and
oversee the regional funding for the deployment of regional firefighting resources and services.

Section 2. A new Chapter 2, commencing with section 96.201, entitled "Voter Approved
Countywide Regional & Local Fire Protection Parcel Tax and Funding Plan" is added to Division 6
(Fire Protection) of Title 9 (Construction Codes and Fire Code) of the San Diego County Code of
Regulatory Ordinances to read as follows:

CHAPTER 2. VOTER APPROVED COUNTYWIDE REGIONAL & LOCAL FIRE PROTECTION
PARCEL TAX AND FUNDING PLAN
SECTION 96.201. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.

The voters of the County have determined that the County's 2003 and 2007 wildfires have
demonstrated the need for additional funding for fire protection resources and services, both on a
regional and local basis. Furthermore, the voters also have determined that there is a need for a
regional organization, consisting of public agency representatives from all areas within the County
to manage, administer, and oversee regional funding for the deployment of regional firefighting
resources and services.

Therefore, this Chapter was approved by the voters for the express purpose of adopting a County
special tax on parcels of real property in San Diego County to be used to fund fire protection
equipment, firefighting, and related services to prevent and to fight fires on both a regional and
local level. In addition, the voters approved this Chapter for the purpose of providing for the
establishment a countywide joint powers authority, entitled the "San Diego Regional Fire
Protection Agency," to manage, administer, and oversee regional funding for the deployment of
regional firefighting resources and services.

SECTION 96.202. DEFINITIONS.

The following definitions shall apply to the terms used in this Chapter:

(a)	"City" means any incorporated city in the County of San Diego.

(b)	“County’’ means the entire geographical area of the County of San Diego, including both
incorporated and unincorporated territory.

(c)	"Exempt" means any land or improvements, or both, that are fully exempt from ad
valorem property taxes pursuant to current law and designated as fully exempt by the San
Diego County Assessor's Office or, for State assessed property, by the State of California.

(d)	"Fire protection equipment, firefighting and related services” mean the following items for
which the regional portion of the fire protection parcel tax revenues may be expended by the
Regional Fire Protection Agency in furtherance of the purposes expressed in this Chapter:

(1)	Any firefighting equipment, including, but not limited to, aerial assets, firefighting
vehicles, insurance, and emergency and communications equipment for public
safety purposes, which may be acquired by purchase, lease, or any other means.

(2)	Firefighting, fire prevention activities, firefighter training, and other related services,
which involve the employment gf firefighters, firefighting trainers, fire protection and
suppression experts, firefighting pilots, firefighting equipment mechanics, and other
necessary firefighting staff, who may be employed by the Regional Fire Protection
Agency by contract or as employees.

MISSING PAGE 5

(i)	"Improvement" means all buildings and structures, as those terms are used in California
Revenue & Taxation Code section 105, with a structural design that is measurable in
square feet to account for the full square footage of its area, including multiple floors or
levels, and which are located on all parcels in the County.

(j)	"Independent special district" means any of the districts indicated in subdivisions (f) and

(0)	of this Section.

(k)	"Parcel" means any parcel of real property located in the County, including any
possessory interest, which is subject to ad valorem property taxation and is either
identified by a parcel number assigned by the County Assessor's Office for purposes of
ad valorem property tax identification, or is identified as State assessed real property.

(l)	"San Diego Regional Fire Protection Agency" (or "Regional Fire Protection Agency" or
"Agency" or "JPA" as used in this Chapter) means the joint powers authority described in
Section 96.207 of this Chapter.

(m)	"Taxable parcel", means land or improvements, or both, which are subject to ad valorem
property taxation, and not fully exempt from such property taxation, and which are either:

(1)	identified by a parcel number according to the official property tax records of the
County Assessor, or (ii) identified or treated as a parcel by the State of California for State
assessed real property.

(n)	"Volunteer fire department" (or "VFD") means any of the following volunteer fire
departments, including any successors-in-interest to these departments, any jurisdictional
changes to these VFD's, and any other volunteer fire departments not listed here that are
subsequently established, which are formed for the purpose of providing fire protection
services within their respective jurisdictions in the unincorporated area of the County:

(1)	De Luz Heights VFD

(2)	Inter-Mountain Fire Rescue

(3)	Ocotillo Wells VFD

(4)	Ranchita Fire Rescue

(5)	Shelter Valley VFD

(6)	Sunshine Summit VFD

Contingent upon the approval by the San Diego Local Agency Formation Commission of
the fire protection latent powers for the Zone entitled the "San Diego County Regional Fire
Authority in CSA 135, the volunteer fire companies listed above will become part of such
Zone in CSA 135, and shall thereafter be part of the County CSA's set forth in subdivision

(e)	of this Section.

(o)	"Water district" (or "municipal water district" or "MWD") means any the following water
districts, including any successors-in-interest to these districts, any jurisdictional changes
to these districts, and any other water districts not listed here that are established in
accordance with applicable law, which possess official duties and responsibilities to
provide fire protection services within each of their respective jurisdictions in the

unincorporated area of the County:	
(D	Mootamai
(2)	Pauma
(3)	Ramona
(4)	Rincon Del Diablo
(5)	Yuima

SECTION 96.203. FIRE PROTECTION PARCEL TAX.

(a)	Statement of Purpose and Adoption of County Special Tax. In accordance with the
provisions of Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 50075) of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of
Division 1 of Title 5, and Section 23207 of the Government Code, a County special tax
shall be imposed in the County pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. This County
special tax shall be a tax on all parcels in the County, and is entitled the "fire protection
parcel tax." The purposes of the fire protection parcel tax are to raise tax revenues to pay
for improved and enhanced regional and local agency firefighting resources and services
as described in Section 96.205, and to cover any costs incurred with respect to
administrative responsibilities associated with the tax. The proceeds of the fire protection
parcel tax shall be applied only to the purposes specified in this subdivision (a).



(b)	Establishment of Amount of the Fire Protection Parcel Tax. The following amount of the
fire protection parcel tax per year, as adjusted in subsequent years pursuant to
subdivision (e) of this Section, shall be levied upon every taxable parcel in the
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the County. This fire protection parcel tax shall
first be levied during fiscal year 2009-10, beginning July 1,2009, on all taxable parcels as
of the January 1, 2009 lien date, and shall be levied for every subsequent fiscal year
thereafter, beginning on July 1 of that fiscal year on all taxable parcels as of the January 1
lien date for that fiscal year.

PARCEL  CATEGORY	AMOUNT OF FIRE PROTECTION PARCEL TAX PER YEAR
TAXABLE PARCELS WITH  IMPROVEMENTS	Parcels with improvements up to 10.000 so. ft. and up to 50 acres:
	$52.00 per parcel Parcels with improvements greater than 10.000 sq. ft. and/or
	greater than 50 acres:  $52.00 per parcel +$ .01 per square foot for each square foot of improvements that is greater than 10,000 square feet +$ 1.00 per acre for each acre on a parcel that is greater than 50 acres
TAXABLE PARCELS WITH  NO IMPROVEMENTS	Parcels up to 50 acres:  $52.00 per parcel Parcels greater than 50 acres:  $52.00 per parcel +$ 1.00 per acre for each acre on a parcel that is greater than 50 acres
ALL PARCELS	Maximum Annual Fire Protection Parcel Tax for All Parcels
	$ 1,000 per parcel

(c)	Time-Share Fractional Ownership Interests. The category of "Taxable Parcels with
Improvements" includes time-share units assigned parcel numbers by the San Diego County
Assessor, which are owned by taxpayers based on a fractional ownership interest. The
application of the $52 per parcel per year fire protection parcel tax shall be prorated for the
time-share unit because of the fractional ownership interest of the time-share unit. The
prorated amount of fire protection parcel tax, using a standard one-week ownership interest,
to be levied on a time-share unit, shall be $1.00 per time-share unit per year. The levy of
$1.00 per time-share unit per year shall apply to all time-share units assigned parcel
numbers, which are owned by taxpayers based on a fractional ownership interest,
regardless of the size of the fractional ownership interest. A building, complex, or structure
that includes multiple time-share units, for which there is one owner of record for the multiple
time-share units for property tax purposes, shall be subject to the fire protection parcel tax
described above for "Taxable Parcels with Improvements."

(d)	Assessees of Real Property on State Assessed Real Property. Any assessee of real
property, who is required to pay ad valorem property taxes on real property that is
assessed by the State of California (i.e., not assessed by the County Assessor), shall
annually certify to the County Assessor the full square footage of any improvement (as
defined in Section 96.202(i)) on the assessee's real property that is assessed by the State
for purposes of ad valorem property taxation. The County Assessor shall notify
assessees of the need to file the annual certification, which shall be filed with the County
Assessor on a form approved by the Assessor, no later than close of business on August
1 of each calendar year. The certification shall identify each parcel of the assessee that is
assessed by the State, and for each parcel the assessee shall indicate whether the
particular parcel contains an improvement or improvements. If a parcel contains an
improvement or improvements, the assessee must indicate the total square footage size
of each separate improvement on that parcel.


(e)	Amount of Fire Protection Parcel Tax Subject to Consumer Price Index Annual
Adjustment, The amount of the fire protection parcel tax specified in subdivision (a) of
this Section, including the additional amounts for improvements and parcels and the
maximum cap, as adjusted pursuant to this subdivision, shall be adjusted each fiscal year
commencing 2010-11 by the Consumer Price Index for San Diego County. The annual
increase or decrease of the parcel tax amount for each fiscal year shall be based upon
the cost of living, as of the January 1st immediately preceding the commencement of the
applicable fiscal year, as shown by the then current Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer
Price Index (CPI) for All Urban Consumers for the San Diego County area. The CPI
authorized in this subdivision shall be applied to the^amount of the fire protection parcel
tax, including the additional amounts for improvements and parcels and the maximum
cap, as adjusted, that officially existed as of the June 30 date immediately prior to the July
1 date of the fiscal year in which the CPI adjustment will take effect. Pursuant to this
subdivision, the County Auditor & Controller shall apply the annual CPI adjustment, and
calculate the amount of the increase or decrease to all elements of the fire protection
parcel tax to be levied for each new fiscal year.

(f)	Duration of Tax: Thirty (30) Years. The fire protection parcel tax shall remain on the tax
roll for thirty (30) years, and shall expire as of the end of that thirty (30) year period. The
final fiscal year the fire protection parcel tax shall be in effect shall be FY 2038-39, and
the parcel tax shall not be applicable during FY 2039-40, commencing July 1, 2039,
unless this tax is extended by voter approval.

(g)	Administration of Fire Protection Parcel Tax. The County Assessor shall provide to the
County Auditor & Controller a list of parcels subject to the fire protection parcel tax. To
the extent feasible, the information should be transmitted electronically no later than
August 15 and in the format specified by the Auditor. The fire protection parcel tax shall
be collected at the same time and in the same manner, and shall be subject to the same
rules regarding penalties and interest for late payments, as are ad valorem property
taxes. In addition, the times and procedures regarding exemptions, due dates,
installment payments, corrections, cancellations, refunds, late payments, penalties,
interest, liens and collections for secured roll ad valorem property taxes shall be
applicable to the fire protection parcel tax, as determined by the County Assessor, Auditor
& Controller, and Tax Collector for purposes of administrative efficiency and
convenience. The secured roll tax bill shall be the only notice required for any fire
protection parcel tax levied. The fire protection parcel tax revenues shall be deposited in
a special account, established by the County Auditor and Controller, for subsequent
allocation as required by Section 96.204. The timing of the allocations of the fire
protection parcel tax revenues shall be similar to the allocations of the ad valorem
property tax revenues that the Auditor & Controller makes to other government entities.
Any penalties or interest associated with the fire protection parcel taxes shall be retained
by the County to be used to pay for the reasonable costs incurred by the County for the
administration of the fire protection parcel tax, and to the extent that the penalties and
interest exceed such costs on an annual basis, the excess shall be used by the County in
support of fire prevention, protection, or suppression efforts and services.

SECTION 96.204. ALLOCATION OF FIRE PROTECTION PARCEL TAX REVENUES.

(a)	Allocation of Fire Protection Parcel Tax Revenues for Regional Purposes. The County
Auditor & Controller shall make the following allocation of fire protection tax revenues to
the Regional Fire Protection Agency at a similar time and in a similar manner that the
Auditor & Controller allocates ad valorem property taxes to other entities:

(1)	Fifty percent (50%) of the fire protection parcel tax revenues that are collected each
fiscal year shall be allocated to the Regional Fire Protection Agency, except as
indicated below in subparagraph (2) in the first fiscal year of the tax.

(2)	For the first fiscal year of the tax, 2009-10, one hundred percent (100%) of half of the
estimated parcel taxes to be collected for the full fiscal year shall first be allocated to
the Agency with the initial allocations that are made by the Auditor & Controller. At
the end of the fiscal year, the Auditor & Controller shall make any necessary
adjustments to the allocations to ensure that the Agency and the group of local
agencies each have been allocated 50% of the total fire protection parcel tax
revenues collected for that fiscal year.


(3)	If the Regional Fire Protection Agency has not yet been established pursuant to a
joint powers agreement by the time that the Auditor & Controller is prepared to
allocate the regional share of the parcel tax revenues to the Agency, the portion of
the County's parcel taxes that are to be allocated to the Agency shall be held by the
County in a special account until such time that the Agency is created

(b)	Allocation of Fire Protection Parcel Tax Revenues for Local Purposes. The Auditor &
Controller shall make the following allocations of fire protection tax revenues to the local
agencies designated in subdivision (c) of this Section at a similar time and in a similar
manner that the Auditor & Controller allocates ad valorem property taxes:

(1)	Fifty percent (50%) of the fire protection parcel tax revenues that are collected each
fiscal year shall be allocated to the local agencies, except as indicated below in
subparagraph (2) in the first fiscal year of the tax.

(2)	For the first fiscal year of the tax, 2009-10, one hundred percent (100%) of half of the
estimated parcel taxes to be collected for the full fiscal year shall be allocated to the
local agencies after the Auditor & Controller makes the allocations to the Agency
required under subdivision (a)(2) of this Section. At the end of the fiscal year, the
Auditor & Controller shall make any necessary adjustments to the allocations to
ensure that the Agency and the group of local agencies each have been allocated
50% of the total fire protection parcel tax revenues collected for that fiscal year.

(3)	For a city or independent special district to be eligible to receive its local share of fire
protection parcel taxes on the tax roll for a particular fiscal year, the city or an
independent special district must join the Regional Fire Protection Agency prior to
July 1 of that fiscal year.

(c)	Designation of Local Agencies to Receive Fire Protection Parcel Tax Revenues for Local
Purposes. Except as provided in subdivision (d) of this Section, the Auditor and
Controller shall make the local agency allocations specified in subdivision (b) of this
Section to the following local agencies that are responsible for providing and do provide
fire protection services, either directly or through a contract with another agency to
provide fire protection services:

(1)	Each city within the County, which elects to become a member agency of the San
Diego Regional Fire Protection Agency.

(2)	Each fire protection district designated in Section 96.202 (f), which elects to become
a member agency of the San Diego Regional Fire Protection Agency.

(3)	County, on behalf of the fire protection county service areas and volunteer fire
departments designated in Section 96.202 (e) and (n).

(4)	Each water district designated in Section 96.202 (o), which elects to become a
member agency of the San Diego Regional Fire Protection Agency.

(d)	Allocation of Fire Protection Parcel Tax Revenues to Local Agencies Determined by Type
of Jurisdiction in which Parcel is Located. The allocation of fire protection parcel tax
revenues to local agencies pursuant to subdivision (b) of this Section shall be determined
by the type of fire protection jurisdiction in which the parcel is located, in accordance with
the following conditions:

(1)	Parcels Located in a Local Agency Jurisdiction. Fire protection parcel tax revenues,
which are collected with respect to a parcel located in one of the local agency
jurisdictions specified in subdivision (c) of this Section, shall be allocated to the local
agency in which the parcel is located.

(2)	Parcels Located in a City or an Independent Special District that is Not a Member of
Agency. Fire protection parcel tax revenues, which are collected with respect to a
parcel located in a city or an independent special district that is not a member agency
of the Regional Fire Protection Agency by the time specified under Section 96 204 (b) (3), shall be allocated to the Regional Fire Protection Agency for regional purposes. 

(3)	Parcels Located in More Than One Local Agency Jurisdiction. Fire protection parcel
tax revenues, which are collected with respect to a parcel located within more than
one jurisdiction of the local agencies specified in subdivision (c) of this Section, shall
be allocated to the local agency that is responsible for providing and does provide
fire protection services, either directly or by contracting with another agency to
provide fire protection services, for the particular parcel.

(4)	Parcels Located in Federal or State Jurisdiction. Fire protection parcel tax revenues,
which are collected with respect to a parcel that is not located in any of the
jurisdictions of the local agencies specified in subdivision (c) because it is located in
a federal, state, or other jurisdiction, shall be allocated to the Regional Fire
Protection Agency for regional purposes.

SECTION 96.205. AUTHORIZED USES OF FIRE PROTECTION PARCEL TAX REVENUES.

(a)	Authorized Uses of Fire Protection Parcel Tax Revenues for Regional Purposes. The fire
protection parcel tax revenues allocated to the Regional Fire Protection Agency for
regional purposes shall be used solely for fire protection equipment, firefighting and
related services as defined in Section 96.202 (d) for the purposes described in Section
96.207 (b) of the Agency.

(b)	Cap on Regional Fire Protection Agency Administrative Expenses. The Regional Fire
Protection Agency shall be limited to expending no more than ten percent (10%) of its annual
allocation of fire protection parcel tax revenues on administrative expenses on an annual basis.
The terms "administrative expenses" are defined under Section 96.202 (d) (4).

(c)	Authorized Uses of Fire Protection Parcel Tax Revenues for Local Agency Purposes.
The fire protection parcel tax revenues allocated to a local agency for local purposes
pursuant to Section 96.204 shall be used solely to pay for fire prevention, protection, and
suppression purposes, emergency medical services, search & rescue services, and any
other fire and emergency related expenses that are part of the responsibilities of the local
agency's fire department or district. The fire protection parcel tax revenues allocated
pursuant to this subdivision shall not be used to replace other private developer funding
for fire protection purposes that has been or will be committed for any project.

SECTION 96.206. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT REQUIREMENT

(a)	Maintenance of Effort (MOE) Requirement: Non-Supplantation Rule It is the intent of the
voters that the local agencies designated in subdivision (c) (1), (3) and (4) of Section
96.204, which are allocated fire protection parcel tax revenues for local purposes, must
augment, and not supplant, existing local revenues being used by such local agency for
the purposes set forth in Section 96.205 (c), in accordance with this Section.

(b)	Establishment of Annual MOE Applicable to Expenditures for Fire Protection Purposes.
The local agencies that are subject to the MOE requirement by subdivision (a) of this
Section shall annually make local agency fire protection expenditures (not including the
fire protection parcel tax revenues authorized by this Chapter) for the purposes described
in Section 96.205 (c), beginning FY2009-10, in an amount that is no less than each
annual MOE requirement. The County's annual local agency fire protection expenditures
include those expenditures made on a countywide basis, and are not limited to
expenditures for the CSA's and VFD's. For purposes of this Section, local agency
expenditures for the purposes described in Section 96.205 (c) shall be referred to as
"local agency fire protection expenditures." The "local agency fire protection expenditures"
shall not include any payments for capital improvements or assets where the source of
such payments is from a bond, debt, or certificate of participation issuance to finance the
construction or acquisition of such improvements or assets. The annual debt service
required by the bond issuance shall be included as "local agency fire protection
expenditures" within the meaning of this Section. In addition,1 some flexibility in
accounting for spikes in expenditures would be consistent with the intent of ensuring that
the local agencies do not supplant funds spent on local agency fire protection
expenditures with the fire protection parcel tax revenues. Therefore, one-time local
agency fire protection expenditures that were the result of "banking" general fund monies
and subsequently expending those funds during the fiscal years for computing the
average amount of the base year MOE may be isolated and removed so that the MOE is
representative of a normal annual spending level, subject to the review by the
Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee and County Auditor & Controller.

(1)	Establishment of Base Year MOE. For cities and water districts, the base year MOE
shall be the average amount of local agency fire protection expenditures of that local
agency's general tax revenues, which were spent for the purposes described in
Section 96.205 (c) over the following three fiscal years 2005-06, 2006-07, and 2007-
OS. For the County, the base year MOE shall be $15.5 million, which covers all
components of the County Fire Enhancement Program The base year MOE
requirement shall be applicable in fiscal year 2009-10.


(2)	Adjustments to the MOE. The base year MOE level as determined in subparagraph

(1)	above shall be subject to an adjustment each year, commencing fiscal year 2010-
2011. The adjustment shall be based on the rate of increase or decrease in the
general tax revenues of each local agency that is subject to the MOE requirement.
The rate of increase or decrease shall be determined by calculating the percentage
increase or decrease in that local agency's general tax revenues over the two fiscal
years immediately prior to the fiscal year in which parcel tax funds are to be
allocated. [For example, for purposes of determining the adjustment to the MOE that
will be applicable in fiscal year 2010-11, the percentage increase or decrease in
general tax revenues is determined by comparing the general tax revenues received
in fiscal year 2008-09 to the general tax revenues received in 2009-10. The then
existing maintenance of effort level shall be adjusted by this percentage rate of
increase or decrease in order to establish the adjusted minimum MOE requirement
applicable in FY 2010-11.]

(3)	Local Agency Certification of Compliance with MOE. The County Auditor &
Controller shall not allocate, in any fiscal year, tax revenues pursuant to Section
96.204 (b) to a local agency that is subject to the MOE requirement until that local
agency has certified to the Auditor & Controller that it has established and will
maintain appropriations in its budget for the purposes described in Section 96.205

(c), in an amount of funding at least equal to the minimum MOE required by this
Section. The Auditor & Controller shall establish the time by which the certification
must be made by a local agency, and may develop the form upon which the
certification is to be made by a local agency.

(4)	Annual Independent Audit. An annual independent audit shall be conducted to verify
that the MOE requirement for each local agency (subject to the MOE requirement)
was met in the fiscal year in which parcel tax funds are to be allocated. The annual
independent audit shall be arranged by the County Auditor & Controller. Each local
agency will be responsible for payment of the independent audit that is conducted for
its agency.

(5)	Reduction of Parcel Tax Revenue Allocation If MOE Not Met. Any local agency that
does not meet its MOE requirement in any given fiscal year shall have its local share
funding reduced by the County Auditor & Controller in the following fiscal year by the
amount by which the local agency did not meet its minimum maintenance of effort
level requirement.

(6)	Local Agency Request for More Time to Meet MOE. In the event that special
circumstances prevent a local agency from meeting its MOE requirement, the local
agency may request up to three additional fiscal years to fulfill its requirement. Such
a request must be presented to the Agency for consideration, and the Agency, upon
a finding of substantial evidence that special circumstances justifiably prevented the
local agency from meeting its MOE requirement, shall permit the local agency
additional time, not to exceed three fiscal years to meet its minimum MOE
requirement. During this period of time, the local agency shall continue to receive its
full allocation of fire protection parcel tax revenues pursuant to Section 96.204 (b).

(7)	Consequences for Failing to Satisfy MOE Purina Extension Period. If a local agency
fails to meet its MOE requirement as provided in this Section, or by the end of the
period, if any, granted by the Agency, the Auditor & Controller, in the fiscal year
immediately following the end of the period required by this Section or by the end of the
period granted by the Agency, shall reduce that local agency's parcel tax allocation by
the amount by which the local agency did not meet its MOE requirement.

(8)	Redistribution of Local Share of Fire Protection Parcel Tax Revenues to Regional
Fire Protection Agency for Regional Purposes. Any fire protection parcel tax
revenues not allocated to a local agency due to that local agency's failure to meet
the MOE requirement shall be allocated to the Regional Fire Protection Agency for
regional purposes.

PR-CWOI-13

N SD 193-038

SECTION 96.207. SAN DIEGO REGIONAL FIRE PROTECTION JOINT POWERS AGENCY.

(a)	Establishment of the San Diego Regional Fire Protection Agency. The San Diego
Regional Fire Protection Agency, a joint powers authority, shall be established by
agreement between the County and each city within the County, electing to become
member agencies of the Regional Fire Protection Agency

(b)	Purposes of the Regional Fire Protection Agency. The Agency's purposes include, but are not
limited to, the determination of the appropriate use of the fire protection parcel tax revenues for
regional purposes, the administration of the use of such parcel tax revenues pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter and the joint powers agreement entered into among the member
agencies. The joint powers agreement entered into by the member agencies may specify
further purposes of the Agency consistent with the intent of this Chapter.

(c)	Membership of Regional Fire Protection Agency. The Regional Fire Protection Agency
shall consist of the County and, if they elect to join the Agency, the cities, and
independent special districts designated in subdivision (j) of Section 96.202, as member
agencies. The actual number of member agencies of the Agency will be based upon
which cities and independent special districts elect to become member agencies of the
Regional Fire Protection Agency pursuant to the joint powers agreement that creates the
Regional Fire Protection Agency.

(d)	Governing Body of Regional Fire Protection Agency. The Agency shall be governed by a
board of directors consisting of ten (10) voting members, and up to five (5) non-voting
members, who shall be as follows:

(1)	One member of the County Board of Supervisors, who shall be from one of the two
supervisorial districts that encompass most of the unincorporated territory of the
supervisorial districts, shall serve on the board of directors. The Board of
Supervisors shall select the Supervisor to serve on the board of directors. The
Board of Supervisors also shall select one of the Supervisors to serve as an
alternate member on the board of directors in the absence or disqualification of the
Supervisor serving on the board of directors.

(2)	One member from the City of San Diego shall serve on the board of directors. The
member on the board of directors from the City shall be the current sitting Mayor. In
lieu of the Mayor sitting as a member on the board of directors, the Mayor may name a
designee to serve on the board of directors, who shall be one of the City Council
members from the City. The City Council may determine, in its own discretion, whether
it shall require the Mayor's designee, if any, to be approved by the City Council to serve
on the board of directors. The San Diego City Council shall select one of its members
to serve as an alternate member on the board of directors in the absence or
disqualification of the Mayor, or his designee, serving on the board of directors.

(3)	Four (4) members from four different cities of the remaining seventeen cities shall serve
on the board of directors. The four city representatives shall be elected members of
their respective city councils, and shall be selected by the City Selection Committee to
serve on the board of directors. The City Selection Committee also shall select four (4)
city council members to serve as an alternate on the board of directors in the absence
or disqualification of the each one of the primary members serving on the board of
directors. The City Selection Committee shall select the four city representatives and
four alternates from cities in the North Coastal, North Inland, East, and South areas of
the County. The alternate members do not need to be from the same city council of
the primary member for whom the city council member is serving as an alternate.

(4)	Four (4) members from four of the independent special districts specified in Section
96.202 (j) shall serve on the board of directors. These members shall be elected
members from the governing bodies of the independent special districts, and who shall
be selected by all the independent special districts in a manner to be determined by the
independent special districts. The independent special districts also shall select an
alternate member for each of the regular members serving on the board of directors,
who shall serve in the absence or disqualification of the regular member of the board of
directors. The alternate members shall be elected members of the governing bodies of
the independent special districts, but need not be from the same independent special
districts of the main members on the board of directors.


(5)	Five (5) non-voting members shall serve on the board of directors. Each non-voting
member shall be a representative of one of the following: Cal Fire, the U.S. Forest
Service, one of the Indian Reservation Fire Departments, the U.S. Navy, and the
U.S. Marines. Each representative from Cal Fire and the U.S. Forest Service shall
be selected by his/her respective agency. The representative of the Indian
Reservation Fire Departments shall be selected by the Indian Reservation Fire
Departments in a manner to be determined collectively by all the Indian Reservation
Fire Departments in the County. Each representative from the Navy and the Marines
shall be selected in a manner to be determined by that respective branch of the
military stationed in the County. Cal Fire, the U.S. Forest Service, the Indian
Reservation Fire Departments, the Navy, and the Marines each shall select one
alternate member, who shall serve as a non-voting member on the board of directors
in the absence or disqualification of the regular non-voting member selected to serve
on the board of directors. The joint powers agreement that establishes the Regional
Fire Protection Agency may provide for additional non-voting members.

(6)	Term as Member of Board of Directors. Each member of the board of directors shall
serve an indefinite term. Except with respect to the Mayor of the City of San Diego,
members of the board of directors may be removed at the pleasure of the member’s
appointing body. In addition, if a member on the board of directors ceases to hold
the office that qualified the member to serve on the board of directors, the member's
position shall automatically become vacant. The appointing body for that vacancy
shall select a member to fill the vacant position.

(e)	Powers of the Agency. The Agency's powers shall include, but not be limited to, the

following:

(1)	To expend special tax revenue for regional fire protection purposes specified in this
Chapter.

(2)	To appoint a technical advisory committee consisting of firefighting professionals to
monitor and make recommendations to the board of directors and Agency staff as to
the purchase, lease, maintenance and operation of firefighting aircraft and other
equipment.

(3)	To issue bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness to finance the (i)
acquisition of firefighting equipment, including, but not limited to, aircraft, including
helicopters and airplanes, specially equipped to fight fires and provide emergency
services, (ii) trucks, (iii) communications equipment for public safety purposes, (iv)
purchase of real property, (v) construction of facilities and (vi) and other related
firefighting equipment, or to engage in temporary borrowing to pay for the operation
of the Agency until sufficient special tax money has been received. The Agency may
pledge special tax revenue in order to secure any financing.

(4) To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, one or more firefighting aircraft,
including helicopters and airplanes, specially equipped to fight fires and provide
emergency services, trucks, communications and related firefighting equipment.

(5)	To maintain and operate, or to contract for the maintenance and operation of such
firefighting aircraft, trucks, communications, and related equipment.

(6)	To adopt a budget.

(7)	To employ personnel, or enter into contracts with independent contractors, as
needed to carry out the purposes and powers of the Agency. The board of directors
may delegate to its staff, subject to board adopted rules and regulations, the
authority to manage the day-to-day operations of the authority including purchases of
equipment and execution of contracts.

(8)	To contract with other cities, independent special districts, tribal reservations and
other entities for the purpose of the Agency performing all or a portion of the
firefighting duties and responsibilities for such entities.

(9)	To engage in regional firefighting training programs, and to provide firefighting
training to its personnel or to others in order to enhance the overall firefighting
effectiveness in the County of San Diego.

(10)	To sue and be sued.


(11)	The Agency shall provide its services within the entire territory of the County,
incorporated and unincorporated.

(12)	Such other powers, which are consistent with the intent of this Chapter, as may be
specified in the Joint Powers Agreement establishing the Agency, including, but not
limited to, the power to accept grants, appoint or employ staff, acquire by purchase
or lease fire protection equipment, and contract for services.

(13)	To exercise any power necessary and convenient to carrying out the powers
specified in this part,

(14)	No member on the board of directors of the Regional Fire Protection District Agency
shall receive any per-diem payments or mileage reimbursements for serving on the
board of directors

(f)	Treasurer and Auditor of the Agency. The treasurer of the Agency shall be the County
Treasurer-Tax Collector and the auditor of the Agency shall be the County Auditor &
Controller. The Agency shall pay the Treasurer-Tax Collector and the Auditor &
Controller for their services at their respective full cost recovery rates. The joint powers
agreement establishing the Agency shall provide that legal services may be provided by
County Counsel, or by private counsel retained by the Agency. The retention of legal
counsel shall be pursuant to a legal services agreement approved by the Agency's board
of directors. The Agency shall pay the County Counsel and the private counsel for legal
services based upon their respective hourly billable rates.

SECTION 96.208. INDEPENDENT TAXPAYER OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

(a)	Establishment of the Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee. An Independent
Taxpayer Oversight Committee (ITOC) shall be established by the Board of Supervisors
as an advisory body for the purpose of providing appropriate oversight and accountability
over the allocation and use of the fire protection parcel taxes for regional and local
purposes. At the time the Board of Supervisors establishes the ITOC, the Board of
Supervisors, pursuant to the provisions in this Section, shall provide for the ITOC's
membership, selection of the ITOC members, and duties and responsibilities, and in
addition, may provide for any other provisions that are reasonable or necessary to the
establishment of the ITOC.

(b)	Membership and Selection of ITOC. The ITOC shall consist of five (5) members of the
public. The five members shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors based upon a
nomination from each member of the Board of Supervisors of a member of the public who
resides within the Supervisorial District of that Board member. The Board of Supervisors
may establish criteria for members to be qualified to serve on the ITOC, and such criteria
may include, but not be limited to, experience and/or expertise in fiscal, accounting, auditing,
executive, management, public accountability, or community leadership positions.

(c)	Duties and Responsibilities of ITOC. The Board of Supervisors also shall establish the
number of times the ITOC shall meet during a year, the timing of reports that are to be
provided to the Board of Supervisors per year, and the duties and responsibilities of the
ITOC, which may include, but not be limited to:

(1)	the review of each agency's compliance with the maintenance of effort requirement;

(2)	the review of the expenditure and use of the fire protection parcel taxes by the
Regional Fire Protection Agency for regional purposes and the local agencies for
local purposes;

(3)	the development of recommendations to improve the financial integrity on the use of
the parcel taxes, which recommendations shall be reported to the Board of
Supervisors in a notice public meeting; and

(4)	any other duties and responsibilities that will enhance the level of accountability and
fiscal integrity with respect to the expenditure and use of the fire protection parcel tax
revenues.


SECTION 96.209. PARCEL TAX APPEAL PROCESS

A property owner, who has paid a fire protection parcel tax levied upon a parcel, may file a parcel
appeal challenging the accuracy of the tax with the County Assessor. Property owners who file
parcel tax appeals may provide any evidence or information in support of their parcel tax appeals.
The Assessor's Office shall review the parcel tax appeal, including the factors upon which the fire
protection parcel tax was applied to the parcel. The purpose and function of the parcel tax appeal
process will be to correct or adjust any application of the parcel tax so that such application of the
parcel tax is consistent with the principles, intent, and parameters of the provisions set forth in this
Chapter. The Assessor's Office may receive evidence, information and explanation, if necessary,
from the offices of the County Auditor & Controller and Treasurer-Tax Collector with respect to the
application of the parcel tax to a parcel. If after proof has been supplied by the property owner
and after a full review by the Assessor's Office, the Assessor's Office finds that the fire protection
parcel tax for the parcel was applied in error, and requires an adjustment, the Assessor shall
inform the Auditor & Controller to make the necessary adjustments to correct the tax roll, and the
Auditor & Controller shall correct the tax roll, for the parcel for the fiscal year(s) which requires
adjustment. The determination by the County Assessor on all parcel tax appeals pursuant to this
Section shall be final.

SECTION 96.210. AMENDMENTS.

(a)	Board of Supervisors Authorized to Make Designated Amendments. Except as provided
in subdivision (b) of this section that reserves to the voters the right to amend this
Chapter, the Board of Supervisors, with the concurrence of the San Diego Regional Fire
Protection Agency, may amend this Chapter in a manner that is consistent with and in
furtherance of the purpose and intent of this Chapter.

(b)	Voter Approval Required to Make Designated Amendments. Voter approval is required to
make any amendments to this Chapter with respect to any of the following:

(1)	Increase the amount of the fire protection parcel tax, as adjusted by the annual
adjustment, established and authorized pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (b) of
Section 96.203.

(2)	Increase the amount of the annual adjustment established under subdivision (e) of
Section 96.203.

(3)	Increase the duration of the parcel tax required under subdivision (f) of Section
96 203.

(4)	Expand the purposes for which the revenues from the special tax may be expended
beyond the description set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 96.203.

(5)	Change the fire protection parcel tax allocation provisions set forth in subdivisions
(a), (b), and (c) of Section 96.204.

(6)	Change the provisions set forth in this subdivision (b) concerning what amendments
are reserved to the voters to approve.

Section 3. Severability. If any portion of this Ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional,
invalid or otherwise unenforceable, the other provisions of this Ordinance shall remain in full force
and effect to the extent the purposes of this Ordinance as set forth in Section 1 can still be carried
out.

Section 4. Effective Date Pursuant to Government Code Section 25123, this Ordinance
involves a rate of taxes to be levied, and if approved by the voters on Tuesday, November 4,
2008, shall take effect on Wednesday, November 5, 2008.

Section 5. Operative Date. This Ordinance shall become operative on January 1,2009. <fullend>

