o

PAGE.

8

STATE MEASURES	
EMINENT DOMAIN. LIMITS ON GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY. UK INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars state and local governments from taking or damaging private property tor private uses. Prohibits rent control and similar measures. Eliminates deference to government in property rights cases. Changes condemnation rules. Fiscal Impact Increased costs due to the measure's restrictions. The net statewide fiscal effect, however, pr significant.	184  185	no-* ;  to many governments obably would not be
.. EMINENT DOMAIN. LIMITS ON GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION □□ OF OWNER-OCCUPIED RESIDENCE, INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars use of eminent domain to  acquire an owner-occupied residence for conveyance to a private person or business entity. Creates exceptions for public works, public health and safety, Fiscal Impact: No significant fiscal impact on state or local governments.	188 ves->o  and crime prevention.
CITY  SOUTH GATE CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION	
_ MEASURE P. THE SOUTH GATE VITAL CITY SERVICES MEASURE.  L? To preserve public safety and prevent significant cuts to City services, by * funding general City services such as hiring additional police officers, maintaining youth anti-gang and anti-drug programs, after-school parks and recreation services, graffiti removal, maintaining neighborhood parks, fixing poth and other essential City services, shall the City sales tax be increased by one independent annual financial audits, expenditure reports, and citizens' financial over	193	«s-*o  194	no-*o  ales and City streets, cent with guaranteed right?

END OF BALLOT

08-004E

D LA 138-010

.......IMPARTIAL;IilAOrilS OF MEASURE P ..................

Measure P, the South Gate Vital City Services Measure, is a one percent
transactions (sales) and use tax measure that would raise revenue for general
City purposes; such as police, school resource and graffiti abatement personnel
and services, recreation programming, street and traffic improvements and other
general services. This would be a local tax that would be collected and placed in
the City of South Gate’s General Fund and could not be taken away by the State
of California or the County of Los Angeles.

State law provides cities the opportunity to adopt transactions and use tax
ordinances with voter approval and to have those taxes administered by the
State. Pursuant to this State law, Measure P was placed on the ballot by the City
Council of the City of South Gate to ask the voters to approve an ordinance
enacting a general transactions and use (sales) tax of one percent (1%) to be
administered by the State Board of Equalization. The one percent tax would be
paid in addition to current sales and use taxes and would be collected at the same
time and in the same manner as existing sales and use taxes. Measure P would
increase the overall effective sales tax rate in City of South Gate from the current
rate of 8.25% to 9.25%. Under current State law, no further increases to the tax
could be imposed.

Measure P states that the tax is to be used to prevent significant cuts to City
services and to provide additional City services, by funding general City services
such as hiring additional police officers, maintaining youth anti-gang and anti-
drug programs, after-school parks and recreation services, graffiti removal,
maintaining neighborhood parks, fixing potholes and City streets and other
general City services. This sales tax would be a general tax; therefore the tax
would go to the City’s General Fund and could be used for any legal municipal
purpose.

Measure P includes an accountability provision that requires the City of South
Gate to have the expenditure of the proceeds of the tax reviewed annually by an
independent auditor and to make the audits available for public review.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901108-1

D LA 138-022

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P (Continued)

By placing Measure P on the ballot, the City complies with Article XIIIC of the
California Constitution, which requires the voters to approve an ordinance which
imposes a general tax.

A copy of the proposed ordinance is printed in the sample ballot.

Dated: March 11, 2008

RAUL F. SALINAS
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure P. If you desire a copy
of the measure, please call the South Gate City Clerk’s Office at (323) 563-9510
and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PR-901108-2

D LA 138-023

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Protect and maintain our essential community and public safety services - Vote
YES on P.

Cities throughout our area - such as Los Angeles - are getting tough with gangs.
Unless we do so, new crime, gangs and drugs will migrate to South Gate.

Currently, police are so busy responding to calls for assistance, they have little
time to patrol or conduct community policing.

Yes on P hires more police officers - especially anti-gang officers - to keep
gangs and drugs out of South Gate.

Yes on P hires more officers to prevent crimes before they happen, and keeps
our children out of gangs and off drugs.

Yes on P funds school resource officers, anti-gang and anti-drug prevention
programs, and after school programs that keep kids off the streets and out of
trouble.

Unfair budget cuts and “takeaways” from Sacramento has left our City, like
many others in California, with inadequate funding to address essential public
safety and community service needs:

Yes on P gives us LOCAL CONTROL over funding for vital public safety and
city services. Every penny generated by Yes on P is legally required to stay in
South Gate - and can’t be taken bv Sacramento politicians.

Yes on P improves local parks and recreation services, removes graffiti and fixes
streets and potholes.

Yes on P keeps services for local seniors, including health, nutrition and meal
programs. Prescription medicine and grocery food are exempt from Measure P.

Yes on P is fiscally responsible and requires independent, published annual
audits available for public review.

Vote Yes on P to protect our health and safety by preventing devastating cuts to
City services. Visit www.ProtectOurCommunityYesonP.com for more
information.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901108-3

D LA 138-024

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P (Continued)

This June, remember to vote Yes on P to keep our City safe and protect vital city
services,

WILLIAM H. DEWITT (BILL)

Mayor City of South Gate

SYLVIA M, MASUSHIGE JIMENEZ

Executive Director South Gate Chamber of Commerce

HERIBERTO GUTIERREZ

Vice President South Gate Police Officers Association

MARGARET TRAVIS
President South Gate Seniors

CYNTHIA C. ESQUIVEL

Secretary South Gate Jr. Athletic Association

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-901108-4

D LA 138-025

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MlISlilEjp.

AN URGENCY ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE COT OF

SOUTH GATE ADOPTING A GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
PURSUANT TO REVENUE & TAXATION CODE SECTIONS 7251 ET SEQ.,
SUBJECT TO VOTER APPROVAL

Whereas, the City of South Gate, despite significant improvements in its fiscal
accountability, is operating paycheck to paycheck because of increased service
demands from a growing population - leaving the City, like many others in
California, with inadequate funding to address essential public safety and service
needs; and

Whereas, over the past four years, the City has implemented a number of cost-
saving measures, having reduced the number of employees, consolidating
departments and become more efficient in its operations; and

Whereas, the City of South Gate is in a Financial State of Emergency as the City
experienced a budget deficit of $5,1 Million in fiscal year 2006-07 and is
projecting a budget deficit of over $7.0 Million in 2007-08 and that reserve funds
will be entirely depleted by the end of the current fiscal year; and

Whereas, without an immediate source of new revenue, the City of South Gate
will be forced to reduce essential services to the community; and

Whereas, protecting and maintaining public safety, anti-gang and drug programs,
improving after-school parks and recreation services, removing graffiti and fixing
streets and potholes, are essentials for our community; and

Whereas, Los Angeles and cities throughout our area are getting tough with
gangs, making it critical that the City of South Gate maintain its own local efforts
by hiring more anti-gang officers to keep gangs from other areas coming into
South Gate; and

Whereas, police are so busy responding to calls for assistance, insufficient
staffing exists for additional patrol or community policing, and more police
officers are needed to prevent crimes before they happen; and

Whereas, keeping the City’s children out of gangs and off drugs is a top priority,
and additional school police officers, anti-gang and anti-drug prevention
programs, and after school programs are needed; and

Whereas, a local revenue measure will make it possible for the City to improve
its overall community services, for example by hiring additional police officers to
reduce emergency response times, fixing City streets to improve traffic flow and
reduce congestion, fighting gangs and drugs by expanding neighborhood graffiti
removal programs, youth anti-gang and anti-drug prevention programs and after-
school tutoring and mentoring programs; and

(Continued on next page)

PR-901108-5

D LA 138-026

PROPOSED

P (Continued)

Whereas, pursuant to Section 2(b) of CaliforniaConstitution Article XIIIC, the
City Council has unanimously declared the existence of an emergency in that
there are imminent financial risks and dangers, as described above, to the public
welfare and the City’s financial ability to provide essential municipal services
without disruption, and has called a special municipal election on Tuesday,
June 3, 2008, at which election this Ordinance shall be submitted to the qualified
voters of the City of South Gate;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH GATE
DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. TITLE. This Ordinance shall be known as the City of South
Gate Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of South Gate hereinafter
shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated

territory of the City.

SECTION 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of
the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the special

election of June 3, 2008.

SECTION 3. PURPOSE. This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in
order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax Ordinance which shall be operative if a
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of
the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to,
and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutoiy and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901108-6

D LA 138-027

PROPOSED ORDINANCES MEASURE P (Continued)-----------------

D.	'i’o adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same
time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the
City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
Ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State
Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

SECTION 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in
the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 1.0% of the gross receipts of
any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.

SECTION 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this Ordinance, all
retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-
of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places
at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

SECTION 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for
storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 1.0% of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901108-7

D LA 138-028

--------------PROPOSEDORDINANCE	OF	MEASURE P (Continued)---------------

SECTION 8. ADePTieNLOF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

SECTION 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury,
or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the

substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise
be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of

the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition
of that phrase in Section 6203.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901108-8

D LA 138-029

SECTION 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

SECTION 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 ( commencing with Section 4000) of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-
of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901108-9

D LA 138-030

------ PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P (Continued) ----------------------

4.	.Arlease of tangible personal-property'.which-Ts'-a continuing sale of "such.

property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax Ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901108-10

D LA 138-031

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City
or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but
not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the
retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

SECTION 12. AMENDMENTS TO STATE LAW. All amendments
subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this Ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate
of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

SECTION 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or
writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of
the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder
of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

(Continued on next page)

=	PROPOSED ORDINANCE Of MEASURE P (Continued)

SECTION 15. EFFECTIVE DATE AMD SUBMISSION TO VOTERS. This
Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of City transactions and use taxes
and shall take effect immediately. However, no tax imposed by this Ordinance
shall be effective unless that tax has been approved by the voters of the City, at
an election held on June 3, 2008, as required by Section 2(b) of Article XIIIC of
the California Constitution and applicable law.

SECTION 16. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION. The authority to levy
the taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall continue indefinitely until this
ordinance is repealed. The City Council may amend this Ordinance to reduce the
rate of the taxes, either permanently or for a set period of time, without a further
vote of the people. However, as required by Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution, no amendment to this ordinance may increase the rates of the taxes
above what is authorized by this ordinance unless such amendment is submitted
to and approved by the voters.

SECTION 17. DECLARATION. The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this
Ordinance may be used for any lawful purpose of the City, as authorized by
Ordinance, Resolution or action of the City Council or by Ordinance adopted by
the electorate of the City. These taxes do not meet the criteria established by
Section 1(d) of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution for special taxes, and
are general taxes imposed for general government purposes.

SECTION 18. ACCOUNTABILITY. The City’s expenditure of the proceeds
of the taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall be reviewed annually by an
independent auditor in conjunction with, and as part of, the City’s usual annual
financial audit, and the results of such review shall be made available for
inspection by the public.

SECTION 19. The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this Ordinance
and shall cause the same to be published as required by law.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED this 26th day of February, 2008

CITY OF SOUTH GATE:

W.H. (BILL) DE WITT
Mayor

ATTEST:

CARMEN AVALOS
City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

RAUL F. SALINAS
City Attorney

D LA 138-033