SECTION 96.209. PARCEL TAX APPEAL PROCESS

A property owner, who has paid a fire protection parcel tax levied upon a parcel, may file a parcel
appeal challenging the accuracy of the tax with the County Assessor. Property owners who file
parcel tax appeals may provide any evidence or information in support of their parcel tax appeals.
The Assessor's Office shall review the parcel tax appeal, including the factors upon which the fire
protection parcel tax was applied to the parcel. The purpose and function of the parcel tax appeal
process will be to correct or adjust any application of the parcel tax so that such application of the
parcel tax is consistent with the principles, intent, and parameters of the provisions set forth in this
Chapter. The Assessor's Office may receive evidence, information and explanation, if necessary,
from the offices of the County Auditor & Controller and Treasurer-Tax Collector with respect to the
application of the parcel tax to a parcel. If after proof has been supplied by the property owner
and after a full review by the Assessor's Office, the Assessor's Office finds that the fire protection
parcel tax for the parcel was applied in error, and requires an adjustment, the Assessor shall
inform the Auditor & Controller to make the necessary adjustments to correct the tax roll, and the
Auditor & Controller shall correct the tax roll, for the parcel for the fiscal year(s) which requires
adjustment. The determination by the County Assessor on all parcel tax appeals pursuant to this
Section shall be final.

SECTION 96.210. AMENDMENTS.

(a)	Board of Supervisors Authorized to Make Designated Amendments. Except as provided
in subdivision (b) of this section that reserves to the voters the right to amend this
Chapter, the Board of Supervisors, with the concurrence of the San Diego Regional Fire
Protection Agency, may amend this Chapter in a manner that is consistent with and in
furtherance of the purpose and intent of this Chapter

(b)	Voter Approval Required to Make Designated Amendments. Voter approval is required to
make any amendments to this Chapter with respect to any of the following:

(1)	Increase the amount of the fire protection parcel tax, as adjusted by the annual
adjustment, established and authorized pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (b) of
Section 96.203.

(2)	Increase the amount of the annual adjustment established under subdivision (e) of
Section 96.203.

(3)	Increase the duration of the parcel tax required under subdivision (f) of Section
96.203.

(4)	Expand the purposes for which the revenues from the special tax may be expended
beyond the description set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 96.203

(5)	Change the fire protection parcel tax allocation provisions set forth in subdivisions
(a), (b), and (c) of Section 96.204.

(6)	Change the provisions set forth in this subdivision (b) concerning what amendments
are reserved to the voters to approve.

Section 3. Severability If any portion of this Ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional,
invalid or otherwise unenforceable, the other provisions of this Ordinance shall remain in full force
and effect to the extent the purposes of this Ordinance as set forth in Section 1 can still be carried
out.

Section 4. Effective Date. Pursuant to Government Code Section 25123, this Ordinance
involves a rate of taxes to be levied, and if approved by the voters on Tuesday, November 4,
2008, shall take effect on Wednesday, November 5, 2008.

Section 5 Operative Date. This Ordinance shall become operative on January 1,2009.

N SD 193-042

CITY OF ENCINITAS
Proposition K

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROP K

Shall an ordinance be approved to amend Section 3.12.030 of the Encinitas Municipal
Code to require guests of short-term vacation rental units (less than 30 days) to pay 2%
as a special transient occupancy tax to be used only for beach sand replenishment and
stabilization projects (the same as the guests staying at Encinitas hotels and motels
currently do) effective January 1,2009?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds
of the voters voting on the proposition.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

EXISTING LAW: The City of Encinitas currently imposes a special transient occupancy tax on
any hotel guest who rents a unit in a hotel for 30 days or less at a rate of 2% of the rent charged
by the hotel operator. Under existing law, any such rental In any structure or portion of any
structure which has three or more units is subject to this tax The term "hotel" is defined to
include hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house,
rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer
at a fixed location or other. The tax revenues derived may only be used by the City for beach
sand replenishment and stabilization projects.

EFFECT OF MEASURE ON EXISTING LAW: If two-thirds of the votes casts on this measure are
"yes," then commencing on January 1, 2009, existing law would be amended to apply the
application of a special transient occupancy tax regardless of the number of units in a structure
and to expressly include short term rental units (for 30 days or less) in the definition of the term
"hotel." Consequently, any guest of a hotel (as defined), regardless of the number of units
contained in the structure, along with short term rentals, would be required to pay a special
transient occupancy tax at a rate of 2% of the rent charged for use by the City for beach sand
replenishment and stabilization projects.

FISCAL IMPACT: Undetermined. The amount of tax revenue that will result from the proposed
tax cannot be determined in advance of knowing the amount of rents received by operators of
short term rentals.

N SD 193-043

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION K

Currently all tourists staying in traditional lodging such as hotels, motels, and bed and breakfast
establishments in Encinitas contribute funds for beach sand replenishment and shoreline
stabilization projects by paying a 2% Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT). This measure,
Proposition K, will require tourists staying in short-term vacation rentals to pay the same TOT as
tourists staying in Encinitas hotels, motels and bed and breakfast establishments.

IMPORTANTLY. THIS TOT IS PAID BY TOURISTS ONLY. NOT BY PROPERTY OWNERS OR
CITY RESIDENTS.

In 1998, the citizens of Encinitas approved, by more than the required 2/3 vote, a 2% special TOT
for all guests staying in hotels, motels and bed and breakfast establishments in the City. The
1998 measure did not include short-term vacation units. This measure will include them in the
City's beach restoration funding efforts.

With the adoption of the 1998 TOT sand measure, the City of Encinitas was able to afford the
highly successful 2001 sand replenishment project as well as ongoing shoreline monitoring and
sand projects. By requiring a//tourists staying in vacation rentals to pay this special 2% Transient
Occupancy Tax, the city will have greater resources to plan and implement future beach sand
projects.

Proposition K has been endorsed by a number of businesses, environmental and community
groups, including:

Downtown Encinitas MainStreet Association (DEMA)

Seacoast Preservation Association
California Coastal Coalition

JEROME STOCKS
Mayor

DAN DALAGER
Council Member

STEVE ACETI
Executive Director
California Coastal Coalition

ANN P. DUNHAM

Seacoast Preservation Association

Secretary

DON HANSEN
Owner Hansen's

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION K

No rebuttal to the argument in favor of the proposition was filed
in the office of the City Clerk.

N SD 193-044

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION K

Although Encinitas VOTERS ALREADY REJECTED THIS TAX IN JUNE, the council majority is
once again asking residents to approve a sand replenishment tax.

So much for the will of The People!

To add insult to injury, the combined cost to taxpayers of adding these measures to the ballot is at
least $45,000, no small amount at a time when tax revenues are flat or declining.

Regardless of the merits of sand replenishment, PROP K JOINS A GROWING LIST OF TAXES.
BOTH IN OUR CITY AND COUNTYWIDE. MANY OF WHICH HAVE BEEN JUSTIFIED IN THE
NAME OF SAND REPLENISHMENT.

In fact, THIS IS THE FIFTH SAND REPLENISHMENT TAX PROPOSED IN THE PAST 10

YEARS. The others were:

1)	Proposition R in 1998;

2)	A property tax assessment pushed by the San Diego Association of Governments
(SANDAG) and supported by the council in 2002;

3)	Prop G (the first version of this tax defeated in June); and,

4)	A multi-billion dollar sales tax increase being proposed by SANDAG for a vote in 2010.

It's time to send the city council a message: Residents, businesses, and consumers in Encinitas
are tired of being nickel-and-dimed by local taxes.

VOTE NO ON PROP K1

JOE SHEFFO
Encinitas Resident

LANILUTAR
President/CEO

San Diego County Taxpayers Association

BOB NANNINGA
Encinitas Businessowner
Environmental Activist

RICHARD RIDER

Chairman, San Diego Tax Fighters

CHRISTINE CARRICO
Encinitas Realtor

N SD 193-045

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION K

Don't be fooled by false and misleading accusations made by out-of-town activist groups and

others who oppose proposition K.

Consider the following

1.	Last June, 65% of the ballots cast voted in support of Proposition G; the sand tax
proposition.

2.	This measure closes a loophole in the current hotel sand tax by applying it to tourists staying
in short-term vacation rentals.

3.	This fee will NOT be paid by residents, businesses or property owners in Encinitas.

4.	The opponents, who have had no involvement in beach erosion issues until now, argue that
visitors staying in Encinitas' short-term vacation rentals should continue to pay no sand tax
while those who stay in hotels do. This is unfair and makes no sense.

Don't let the entire burden of replenishing sand on local beaches fall solely on the citizens

of Encinitas. Let tourists contribute, too.

PRESERVE AND PROTECT OUR BEACHES FOR THE ENJOYMENT OF ENCINITAS
CITIZENS, VISITORS AND FUTURE GENERATIONS.

VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION K.

JEROME STOCKS
Mayor

STEVE ACETI
Executive Director
California Coastal Coalition

DAN DALAGER
City Council Member

DOUG LONG

President, Downtown

Encinitas MainStreet Association

SUE STEELE

Vice President, San Dieguito Heritage Museum

PR-09V0-4

N SD 193-046

COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

VOTER INFORMATION!

Procedure to “Clean Up” The Voter Rolls

To keep the roster of registered voters as accurate as possible and
reduce election costs, the San Diego County Registrar of Voters will be
using a procedure - known as “Alternate Residency Confirmation”- that
permits removal from the active voter roll the names of those registered
voters who have NOT voted in any election nor had their registration
updated in the preceding four (4) years.

Following the November 4, 2008 General Election, registered voters
who have not voted nor had their registrations updated during the last
four (4) years will be mailed a postcard notice to confirm their
residency. The pre-addressed return postage-paid card MUST BE
RETURNED to the Registrar of Voters by the registered voter should
he or she wish to remain on the active voter roll.

If the card is not returned in 15 days, or is returned by the postal service
as undeliverable, the voter’s registration will be moved to the inactive
voter roll. Registrants on the inactive voter roll are not sent election
materials- saving taxpayer dollars-and may be required to show proof
of current residency in order to vote in future elections.

This notice is a legal prerequisite to using the “Alternate Residency
Confirmation” procedure (California Elections Code Section 2224c).

FP-02-13

N SD 193-047