CITY OF DEL MAR

Proposition H

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROPH

Shall the ordinance which proposes that the transient occupancy tax (TOT) paid by
hotel visitors be increased to a rate up to thirteen percent (13%) be adopted?

This proposition requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%)
of the voters voting on the proposition.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City of Del Mar currently imposes a ten and gpe-half percent transient occupancy tax which
was approved by the voters in 2002. The transient occupancy tax is imposed only on hotel
visitors who visit the City of Del Mar for thirty days or less. The tax is collected by the hotel
operator based on the room rent paid by visitors and transmitted to the City. The City's transient
occupancy tax is a general tax and, in accordance with California law, the tax rate may not be
increased unless approved by a majority of the voters in the City of Del Mar. On July 21, 2008,
the City Council adopted a resolution submitting to the voters an ordinance amending subsection
(A) of Chapter 3.12.010 that would permit the City to increase the TOT rate up to thirteen
percent.

Proposition H is the ordinance that was approved by the City Council on July 21, 2008. If
approved by the voters, Proposition H would amend Del Mar Municipal Code section 3.12.010
(A) to allow the City to increase the transient occupancy tax rate by no more than two and one
half percent for a total transient occupancy tax rate of up to thirteen percent. Revenue collected
from the transient occupancy tax is deposited into the City's general fund to pay for general
governmental services such as fire protection, parks, police protection, and other community
services.

If Proposition H is approved by the voters, the City Council could, depending on the totality of
circumstances, adopt a resolution increasing the TOT up to 2.5% for a maximum TOT of 13%. If
a majority of the voters vote "no" on this Proposition, then the City's transient occupancy tax rate
will remain at ten and one-half percent.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Proposition H. If you
desire a copy of Proposition H, please call the City Clerk's office at
(858) 755-9313. This information can also be viewed on the City’s
website: www.delmar.ca.us.

PR-09D0-14

N SD 214-052

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION H

Vote Yes on Proposition H — the Hotel Visitor Tax Measure

On November 4, 2008, Del Mar residents will cast an important vote concerning the tax rate paid
by hotel visitors for overnight stays in Del Mar. This tax (known as the Transient Occupancy Tax
or 'TOT') is currently set at 10.5% in Del Mar.

A "YES" vote on Proposition H would allow for the tax to be set at a rate up to 13%. If approved,
Proposition H will allow the City to set Del Mar's TOT at a rate commensurate with adjacent
cities. For example, an increase in the TOT rate to 13% could allow the City to collect
approximately $417,000 more annually for the City of Del Mar's General Fund. The General
Fund pa^s for City services that are provided to residents and hotel visitors alike for their use of
public facilities including streets, beaches, parks, fire and police services, and for capital projects.

It is a tax that is paid by visitors....plain and simple. Unlike other revenue sources, every TOT
dollar collected stays in Del Mar.

Vote "YES" on Proposition H to ensure that visitors pay their fair share of city services during
their stay in Del Mar AND to ensure the continued financial health of your community.

Please join us in voting "Yes" on Proposition H.

DAVID DRUKER
Mayor

Del Mar City Council

CRYSTAL CRAWFORD

Deputy Mayor
Del Mar City Council

CARL HILLIARD
Councilmember
Del Mar City Council

HENRY ABARBANEL
Councilmember
Del Mar City Council

RICHARD EARNEST
Councilmember
Del Mar City Council

PR-09D0-15

N SD 214-053

AGAINST PROPOSITION H

P $300,000 OF THE NEW TOURIST OCCUPANCY TAX
LLS: VOTE "NO" ON PROPOSITION H.

s the true beneficiaries of new hotel-generated taxes and
s entire story. The ballot measure does not reveal a last-
itlal unavailability to the City of the full 13% of tax money.
F they impose a TMD (Tourist Marketing District) fee, that
] the TOT so as to keep the total of TOT and TMD fee
loring cities. This concession to the Del Mar hoteliers,
:e, could reduce the TOT revenue to the City by as much
stead would be available to the hoteliers for marketing

t every TOT dollar will be paid by visitors and "stays in Del
nance introduced by the Council majority will potentially
administered by a private corporation and limit the City's

;sive of the sincere, well-reasoned and unanimous urgings
cil that we have pressing infrastructure needs: a sewer
>, unmet obligations to pay for the Shores site, to name a
■: Why should hoteliers get a sum equal to half the City's

1% TOT revenue to provide services for our community's

COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

VOTER INFORMATION!

Procedure to “Clean Up” The Voter Rolls

To keep the roster of registered voters as accurate as possible and
reduce election costs, the San Diego County Registrar of Voters will be
using a procedure - known as “Alternate Residency Confirmation”- that
permits removal from the active voter roll the names of those registered
voters who have NOT voted in any election nor had their registration
updated in the preceding four (4) years.

■oposition H.

JACQUELINE WINTERER
Former Mayor

JAN McMILLAN
Former Mayor

Following the November 4,2008 General Election, registered voters
who have not voted nor had their registrations updated during the last
four (4) years will be mailed a postcard notice to confirm their
residency. The pre-addressed return postage-paid card MUST BE
RETURNED to the Registrar of Voters by the registered voter should
he or she wish to remain on the active voter roll.

KE EISENBERG-PIKE
Former Mayor

If the card is not returned in 15 days, or is returned by the postal service
as undeliverable, the voter’s registration will be moved to the inactive
voter roll. Registrants on the inactive voter roll are not sent election
materials- saving taxpayer dollars-and may be required to show proof
of current residency in order to vote in future elections.

This notice is a legal prerequisite to using the “Alternate Residency
Confirmation” procedure (California Elections Code Section 2224c).

N SD 214-054

FP-02-13

N SD 214-055