PACIFICA SCHOOL DISTRICT
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION 2008-02-27-A
Resolution Calling for a Parcel Tax Election

WHEREAS, the Governing Board (the “Board”) of the Pacifica School District (the
“District”) has established the goals of improving academic performance and the quality
of education for all children in the District; and

WHEREAS, inadequate, unstable, and inequitable State funding of the Pacifica
School District provides insufficient funding to provide students a standards based
education and provides for lower funding levels for District students compared with other
students in the county and state; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate funds for its
educational goals, including seeking local grants, leasing surplus property, and cost-
cutting measures (including the reduction of the District’s budget by over 1.3 million
dollars over the last six years), but these efforts have not been sufficient to provide the
revenues needed to maintain educational excellence and necessary programs and
materials; and

WHEREAS, funding from the Federal Government does not constitute a significant
portion of the District’s budget and is insufficient to meet the District’s goals, and the
District has no assurance that Federal funding will, in the future, permit the District to
meet its goals; and

WHEREAS, the District has a strong track record of using funds wisely and
productively to promote student achievement and renovate its schools; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XI11A of the California Constitution and Section
50079 of the California Government Code authorize a school district, upon approval of
two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for
specified purposes, following notice and public hearing; and

WHEREAS, this Board believes that such a qualified special tax is necessary to
provide continued educational excellence for the students of this District; and

WHEREAS, the Board has held a public hearing after due notice regarding the
proposed authorization of the parcel tax;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Pacifica School District Board of
Trustees, as follows:

1.	Recitals. This Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals
are true and correct.

2.	This Board hereby proposes to adopt a qualified special tax for the following
specific purposes:

a.	To reduce the impact of drastic budget cuts by the State of California to
K-12 education;

b.	To maintain small class sizes;

c.	To protect academic programs;

d.	To attract and retain high quality teaching staff;

e.	To maintain classrooms and school facilities;

f.	To continue improvements in student achievement.

3.	Pursuant to Section 50075.1 of the California Government Code, the Board
determines that the proceeds of the parcel tax shall only be applied to the
purposes stated above. The collection of the qualified special tax provided for
herein shall not decrease funds available from other sources of the District in
any period from the effective date hereof.

4.	Upon the approval of two-thirds of those voting on this measure, a qualified
special tax of $95 per year shall be levied on each parcel of taxable land in the
district in each year beginning July 1, 2008, for a period of five years ending
June 30, 2013.

To provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community, any parcel owned and
occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt upon proper
application to the District. The exemption shall be available pursuant to
procedures to be prescribed by the Board or otherwise as required by law or
by the San Mateo County Tax Collector.

The Board shall cause the tax to be levied in this amount, or at such lesser
amount in any year in which the Board deems such reduced amount sufficient
and appropriate to meet the District’s budgetary needs, or believes that such
reduced amount is appropriate in reaction to State budget changes.

5.	Order of Election. This resolution shall stand as the order to the San Mateo
County Superintendent of Schools to call an election within the boundaries of
the District on June 3, 2008, for approval of the measure contained in Section
6 hereof. The authority for the specifications of this election order is contained
in Sections 5304 and 5322 of the California Education Code and Section
50079 of the California Government Code.

6.	Specifications of Ballot Measure. This Board hereby requests the Chief
Election Officer of the County of San Mateo (the “Chief Election Officer”) to
submit to the voters of the District on June 3, 2008, the following ballot
measure:

PACIFICA SCHOOL DISTRICT
SAVE PACIFICA SCHOOLS ACT OF 2008

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Save Pacifica Schools

Act of 2008” or as “Measure__________[designation to be assigned by County Registrar of

Voters]

TERMS OF
SAVE PACIFICA SCHOOLS SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two thirds of those voting on this
measure, the Pacifica School District (the “District”) shall be authorized to levy a
qualified special tax of $96 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District
in each year commencing July 1, 2008, for a period of five years, ending June 30, 2013.
The Governing Board shall cause the tax to be levied at this amount or at such lesser
amount in any year in which the Board deems such reduced amount sufficient and
appropriate to meet the District’s budgetary needs, or believes such reduced amount is
appropriate in reaction to State budget changes.

The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the “Save
Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax”. Proceeds of the tax shall be authorized to be used to
reduce the impact of drastic state budget cuts on local elementary and middle schools
by maintaining small class sizes, protecting vital academic programs, attracting and
retaining high quality teachers, maintaining classrooms and school facilities, and
continuing improvements in student achievement

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in
the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older
shall be exempt from the Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax upon proper application
to the District. The exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures to be prescribed
by the District’s Governing Board or otherwise as required by law or by the San Mateo
County Tax Collector.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Save Pacifica Schools Act
of 2008 Tax, the Governing Board shall cause an account to be established for deposit of
the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax
remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall
cause a report to be filed with the District’s Governing Board no later than December 31
of each year, commencing December 31, 2008, stating (1) the amount of Save Pacifica
Schools Act of 2008 Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any
projects or description of any programs funded from proceeds of the tax. The report
may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the
Superintendent shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual
budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the District’s Governing Board. To
insure additional accountability, an independent community oversight committee of
volunteers shall be appointed by the Governing Board to oversee all expenditures funded
by the measure, and to advise the Governing Board regarding the proper expenditure of
the Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax proceeds.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax, and
proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

Appropriations Limit. The District’s Governing Board shall provide in each
year (pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the California Government Code or any successor
provision of law) for any increase in the District’s appropriations limit as shall be
necessary to ensure that proceeds of the Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax, and of
all qualified special taxes levied by the District, may be spent for the authorized
purposes, and an election shall be conducted by the District for such purpose only if
required by the general laws of the State applicable to school district qualified special
taxes. This provision shall be deemed to be declaratory of existing procedures governing
District expenditures.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax shall be collected by the San
Mateo County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner and
shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for
unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the Save Pacifica Schools
Act of 2008 Tax shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of the District
in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes
from the San Mateo County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is
otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year
shall also be exempt from the Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax in such year.
Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are exempt from the
Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax as described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has
approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax
as described above to the San Mateo County tax collection officials. The San Mateo
County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel from
taxation, other than through the Senior Citizen Exemption, shall be final and binding for
the purposes of the Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 Tax. Taxpayers wishing to
challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for
correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund
of Save Pacifica Schools Act of 2008 taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to
property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The District’s Governing Board hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of
this measure has independent value, and the Governing Board and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval
of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full
force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

7. Summary of Measure. The measure contained in Section 6 hereof shall be
summarized in the following form, and the Chief Election Officer of the County
of San Mateo is requested to cause this summary of the measure to appear on
the ballot:

“To protect local elementary and middle schools from state budget cuts,
maintain high quality education, preserve small class sizes, attract and
retain qualified teachers, protect vital academic programs and maintain
classroom and school facilities, shall the Pacifica School District levy a
temporary parcel tax of $96/ year for 5 years, with independent citizen
oversight, an exemption for senior citizens, no funds used for administrator
salaries and all funds staying in this community to promote student
achievement?”

8.	Filing of Order of Election. The Secretary of this Board is ordered to cause
certified copies of this resolution and order to be delivered not later than
March 5, 2008, to the San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools, the Chief
Election Officer of the County of San Mateo, and the Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors of the County of San Mateo.

9.	Formal Notice. The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools is hereby
requested to prepare and execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and
consolidation order in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the
“Formal Notice”), and to call the election by causing the Formal Notice to be
posted in every schoolhouse in the District and at three public places in the
District, in accordance with Section 5362 of the Education Code, no later than
March 8, 2008, or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted
by law. The Secretary of this Board, on behalf of and as may be requested by
the County Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to cause all notices
required by law in connection herewith to be published and posted, as the
case may be.

10-Conduct of Election, (a) Request to Chief Election Officer. Pursuant to Section
5303 of the Education Code, the Chief Election Officer of the County of San
Mateo is requested to take all steps to hold the election in accordance with law
and these specifications.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Chief Election Officer is hereby requested to print
the summary of the measure contained in Section 7 hereof in the voter
information pamphlet to be distributed to voters pursuant to Section 13307 of
the Elections Code and to print, immediately below the impartial analysis of
the measure, in no less than 10-point boldface type, a legend substantially as
follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure_____. If you

desire a copy of the measure, please call the San Mateo County

Chief Election Officer and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.”

(c)	Consolidation. The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools and
the Board of Supervisors of the County are requested to order consolidation of
the election with such other elections as may be held on the same day in the
same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

(d)	Canvass of Results. The Board of Supervisors of the County is
authorized to canvass the returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of
the Elections Code.

11.Ballot Argument. The President of this Board, or any member or members of
this Board as the President shall designate, is hereby authorized, but not
directed, to prepare and file with the Chief Election Officer of the County of

San Mateo a ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in Section 6
hereof, within the time established by the Chief Election Officer, which shall be
considered the official ballot argument of this Board as sponsor of the
proposition.

12. Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 27th day of February 2008, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Ervin, Prater, Menefee, O’Neill, Weideman
None
None
None

President, Board of Trustees
Pacifica School District

ATTEST:

Secretary to the Board of Trustees
Pacifica School District

EXHIBIT A

FORM OF

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Pacifica
School District of San Mateo County, California, that in accordance with the
provisions of the Education Code, the Elections Code, and the Government Code
of the State of California, an election will be held on June 3, 2008, for the purpose
of submitting to the qualified electors of the District the proposition summarized
as follows:

“To protect local elementary and middle schools from state budget cuts,
maintain high quality education, preserve small class sizes, attract and
retain qualified teachers, protect vital academic programs and maintain
classroom and school facilities, shall the Pacifica School District levy a
temporary parcel tax of $96/ year for 5 years, with independent citizen
oversight, an exemption for senior citizens, no funds used for
administrator salaries and all funds staying in this community to promote
student achievement?”

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the County
Superintendent of Schools of San Mateo County orders consolidation of the
election with such other elections as may be held on the same day in the same
territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The County Superintendent of Schools of San Mateo County, by this
Notice of Election, has called the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of
the Board of Trustees of the Pacifica School District adopted February 27, 2008,
in accordance with the provisions of Education Code Sections 5302, 5325 and
5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day,
_________ 2008.

County Superintendent of Schools
San Mateo County, California

SECRETARY'S CERTIFICATE

I,	James Lianides, Secretary to the Board of Trustees of the Pacifica
School District, County of San Mateo, California, do hereby certify as follows:

The attached is a full, true and correct copy of a resolution duly
adopted at a regular meeting of the Pacifica School District Board of Trustees
duly and regularly held at the regular meeting place thereof on February 27,
2008, and entered in the minutes thereof, of which meeting all of the members of
said Board of Trustees had due notice and at which a quorum thereof was
present, and said resolution was	adopted	by	the	following vote:

AYES:	Ervin,	Frater,	Menefee,	O’Neill,	Wei deman

NOES:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

ABSENT:	None

At least 24 hours before the time of said meeting, a written notice
and agenda of the meeting was mailed and received by or personally delivered to
each member of the Board of Trustees not having waived notice thereof, and to
each local newspaper of general circulation, radio, and television station
requesting such notice in writing, and was posted in a location freely accessible to
members of the public, and a brief description of the resolution appeared on said
agenda.

I have carefully compared the same with the original minutes of said
meeting on file and of record in my office. Said resolution has not been amended,
modified or rescinded since the date of its adoption, and the same is now in full
force and effect.

WITNESS my hand this 27th day of February 2008.

Secretary to the Board of Trustees
Pacifica School District