IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN LEANDRO

RESOLUTION NO. 2008-097	(1055/3142)

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SAN LEANDRO ESTABLISHING NOVEMBER 4,
2008, AS THE DATE FOR AN ELECTION ON A PROPOSED BALLOT MEASURE
SEEKING VOTER APPROVAL TO MODIFY THE CITY’S EXISTING UTILITY USER’S
TAX FOR GENERAL FUND PURPOSES, ESTABLISHING THE POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES FOR SUCH AN ELECTION AND REQUESTING THAT THE COUNTY OF

ALAMEDA CONDUCT SUCH AN ELECTION

Recitals

WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2, provides that no local
government may extend any general tax unless and until that tax is submitted to the electorate
and approved by a majority vote; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to San Leandro Municipal Code Chapter 2-4, the City of San
Leandro (“City”) imposes a utility users’ tax of six percent, which is charged to persons utilizing
electrical energy; gas delivered through mains or pipes; using intrastate, interstate and
international telephone services; using cable television service furnished by a cable television
corporation within the City; and

WHEREAS, the utility users’ tax is a general tax, the revenues of which are used for
general governmental purposes, and placed in the City’s general fund for the usual current
expenses of the City; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to update its definitions of telecommunication and
video (cable-like) services so that taxpayers are treated the same regardless of the technology
used, and at the same time reduce the utility users’ tax from six percent to five and seven tenths
percent for telephone and video (cable-like) services used within the City; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to maintain the utility users’ tax at six percent for
electrical and gas services, as described above, to help maintain the City’s general fund while
being sensitive to costs incurred by the citizens of San Leandro; and

WHEREAS, the tax to be submitted to the voters, if approved, would be paid by persons
using electrical energy, gas, telephone service, telecommunication service, cable televisions and
video (cable-like) service, as described above, within the City; and

WHEREAS, the utility users’ tax ordinance, attached hereto as Exhibit 1, will provide
rebates for companies engaging in activities that help sustain the environment; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2, provides that a measure
proposing to increase a general tax must be consolidated with a regularly scheduled general

election for members of the City Council, except in cases of emergency declared by unanimous
vote of the City Council; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council determines it is appropriate
to place a measure regarding the City’s utility users’ tax before the voters at the November 4,
2008 general election; and

WHEREAS, the San Leandro City Council is authorized by California Elections Code
Section 9222 to place measures before the voters; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the election be consolidated with the statewide election
to be held on the same date and that within the City, the precincts, polling places and election
officers of the two elections be the same, and that the county election department of the County
of Alameda canvass the returns of the General Election and that the election be held in all
respects as if there were only one election.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of San Leandro does RESOLVE as
follows:

Section 1. Placement of Measure on the Ballot. Pursuant to California Elections
Code Section 9222, the City Council hereby resolves that the ballot for the November 4,2008
election shall include a measure that, if approved, would lower the utility users’ tax from six
percent to five and seven tenths percent for telephone and cable users and maintain the utility
users’ tax at 6% for users of electrical energy and gas services in order to fund general services
in the City.

(a)	Ballot Language

The ballot language for the measure shall be as follows:

UTILITY USER TAX REDUCTION AND FAIRNESS MEASURE. Shall an	
ordinance be adopted to reduce the City of San Leandro’s existing utility users’ tax	YES
from 6% to 5.7% on telecommunications and video (cable-like) services; ensure	
that users of current and future technologies be treated fairly; and preserve funding	
for general municipal services such as police, maintenance of and improvements to	NO
city streets and sidewalks and graffiti removal?	

Section 2. Proposed Ordinance. The ordinance authorizing the general tax to be
approved by the voters pursuant to Section 1 is as set forth in Exhibit 1 hereto. The City Council
hereby approves the submission of the ordinance to the voters of the City at the November 4,
2008 election.

3.	Publication of Measure. The City Clerk is hereby directed to cause notice of the
measure to be published once in the official newspaper of the City of San Leandro, in accordance
with Section 12111 of the Elections Code and Section 6061 of the Government Code.

2

4.	Request to Consolidate and Conduct Election and Canvass Returns.

(a)	Pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the Elections Code, the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Alameda is hereby requested to consent and agree to the
consolidation of a General Municipal Election with the Statewide Election on Tuesday,
November 4, 2008, for the purpose of placing the measure set forth in Section 1 on the ballot.

(b)	The County of Alameda Election Department is authorized to canvass the returns
of the General Municipal Election. The election shall be held in all respects as if there were only
one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

(c)	The Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the County of
Alameda Election Department to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the
consolidated election.

(d)	The City of San Leandro recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the
County of Alameda by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County for any
costs.

5.	Submission of Ballot Argument and Impartial Analysis.

(a)	The last day for submission of direct arguments for or against the measure shall
be by 5:00 p.m. on August 11,2008.

(b)	The last day for submission of rebuttal arguments for or against the measure shall
be by 5:00 p.m. on August 21, 2008.

(c)	Direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred words and shall be signed by not
more than five persons.

(d)	Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed two hundred fifty words and shall be signed
by not more than five persons; those persons may be different persons than the persons who
signed the direct arguments.

(e)	The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure by August
21,2008.

(f)	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9282, the Revenue Ad Hoc
Committee of the City Council (“Ad Hoc Committee”) is hereby authorized to prepare a written
argument in favor of the proposed measure, not to exceed 300 words, on behalf of the City
Council. At the Ad Hoc Committee’s discretion, the argument may also be signed by members
of the City Council or bona fide associations or by individual voters who are eligible to vote on
the measure. In the event that an argument is filed against the measure, the Ad Hoc Committee
is also authorized to prepare a rebuttal argument on behalf of the City Council, which may also
be signed by members of the City Council or bona fide associations or by individual voters who
are eligible to vote on the measure.

3

(g)	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9285, when the City Clerk has
selected the arguments for and against the measure, which will be printed and distributed to the
voters, the City Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the measure to the authors of
the argument against, and copies of the argument against to the authors of the argument in favor.
Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the direct arguments. Each rebuttal
argument shall immediately follow the direct argument, which it seeks to rebut.

6.	Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
its passage and adoption and the City Clerk is directed to send certified copies of this Resolution
to the Alameda County Board of Supervisors, to the County Clerk-Recorder, and the County of
Alameda Election Department.

7.	CEQA. This Resolution is exempt from the California Environmental
Quality Act (Public Resources Code Section 21000, “CEQA”) pursuant to CEQA guidelines
15060, “Preliminary Review,” subdivision (c)(2) in that it will not result in a direct or reasonably
foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment; and 15378, “Project,” subdivisions (2)
and (4) of subdivision (b), in that this tax does not constitute a project under CEQA and therefore
review under CEQA is not required.

8.	Passage of Resolution. Pursuant to California Government Code Section
53724(b), this Resolution, including the approval of the submission of the proposed Ordinance
(attached as Exhibit 11 must be approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the City
Council.

Introduced by Councilmember Prola and passed and adopted this 28th day of July, 2008,
by the following called vote:

Members of the Council:

AYES:	Councilmembers Grant, Gregory, Prola, Souza, Starosciak, Stephens;

Mayor Santos

(7)

NOES:	None

(0)

ABSENT:	None

(0)

ATTEST:

Marian Handa, City Clerk

4

EXHIBIT 1

IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN LEANDRO
ORDINANCE NO. 2008-

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
SAN LEANDRO, CALIFORNIA ADDING CHAPTER 2-17 OF
TITLE 2 TO THE SAN LEANDRO MUNICIPAL CODE WITH
RESPECT TO A COMMUNICATION USERS’ TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN LEANDRO, CALIFORNIA DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 2-17 of the San Leandro Municipal Code is hereby added, and
it shall read as follows:

ARTICLE 1. GENERAL.

2-17-100 Short Title

This chapter shall be known as the "Communication Users’ Tax Law" of the City
of San Leandro.

2-17-105 Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter shall be
construed as defined in this section.

(a)	“Ancillary telecommunication services” means services that are associated
with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services,
including but not limited to the following services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that links two or
more participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the
provision of a telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include
the telecommunications services used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunications billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s
billing statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone
number information, and/or address information.

1

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection
with one or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling
features that allow customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and
call connections, including conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer to
store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any
vertical services that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize the
voice mail service

(b)	“Ancillary video services” means services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to
electronic program guide services, recording services, search functions, or other
interactive services or communications that are associated with or incidental to the
provision, use or enjoyment of video services.

(c)	“Billing Address” shall mean the mailing address of the service user where the
service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

(d)	“City” shall mean the City of San Leandro.

(e)	“Communication Services” means: “telecommunications services”, “ancillary
telecommunication services”, “video services” and “ancillary video services”.

(f)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the meaning and usage as set forth
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the
regulations thereunder.

(g)	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

(h)	“Paging Service” means a “telecommunications service” that provides
transmission of coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers; such
transmissions may include messages and/or sounds.

(i)	"Person" shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust,
common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock
company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign,
domestic, and non-profit), municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the
City) cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order
of any court.

(j)	“Place of Primary Use” means the street address representative of where the
customer's use of the communications service primarily occurs, which must be the
residential street address or the primary business street address of the customer.

2

(k)	"Post-paid telecommunication service" means the telecommunication service
obtained by making a payment on a communication-by-communication basis either
through the use of a credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card,
credit card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service number which is not associated
with the origination or termination of the telecommunication service.

(l)	"Prepaid telecommunication service" means the right to access
telecommunication services, which must be paid for in advance and which enables the
origination of communications using an access number or authorization code, whether
manually or electronically dialed, and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of
which the number declines with use in a known amount.

(m)	"Private telecommunication service" means a telecommunication service that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of
channels between or among termination points, regardless of the manner in which such
channel or channels are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines,
stations, and any other associated services that are provided in connection with the use of
such channel or channels. A communications channel is a physical or virtual path of
communications over which signals are transmitted between or among customer channel
termination points (i.e., the location where the customer either inputs or receives the
communications).

(n)	"Service Address" means either:

(1)	The location of the service user’s communication equipment from
which the communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the
communication is billed or paid; or,

(2)	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (e.g
mobile telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address means the
location of the service user's place of primary use.

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” means the
location associated with the service number.

(o)	"Service Supplier" shall mean any entity or person, including the City, that
provides communication service to a user of such service within the City.

(p)	"Service User" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under the
provisions of this Chapter.

(q)	“State" shall mean the State of California.

(r)	“Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement” means the multi-state agreement
commonly known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, as it
is amended from time to time.

3

(s)	"Tax Administrator" shall have the Finance Director, or his or her designee.

(t)	“Telecommunications Service” means the transmission, conveyance, or routing

of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or
among points, whatever the technology used. The term “telecommunications services”
includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of
transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such services are referred to
as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal
Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data
services that	is functionally integrated with “telecommunication services”.

“Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to the following services,
regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed: ancillary
telecommunication	services;	mobile	telecommunications	service;	prepaid

telecommunication	service;	post-paid	telecommunication	service;	private

telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission); 900 service (or any other similar
numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission for services whereby
subscribers who call in to pre-recorded or live service).

(u)	“Video Programming” means those programming services commonly
provided to subscribers by a “video service supplier” including but not limited to basic
services, premium services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on
demand, origination programming, or any other similar services, regardless of the content
of such video programming, or the technology used to deliver such services, and
regardless of the maimer or basis on which such services are calculated or billed.

(v)	“Video Services” means “video programming” and any and all services related
to the providing, recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of “video programming”
(including origination programming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV
and IP-Video) using one or more channels by a “video service supplier”, regardless of the
technology used to deliver, store or provide such services, and regardless of the manner or
basis on which such services are calculated or billed, and includes ancillary video services,
data services, “telecommunication services”, or interactive communication services that
are functionally integrated with “video services”.

(w)	“Video Service Supplier” means any person, company, or service which
provides or sells one or more channels of video programming, or provides or sells the
capability to receive one or more channels of video programming, including any
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the provision, use or
enjoyment of the video programming, to or from a business or residential address in the
City, where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for
that service, whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video
programming or communications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited
to, multichannel video programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section
522(13)]; open video systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television; master

antenna television; satellite master antenna television; multichannel multipoint
distribution services (MMDS); video services using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-
Video, which provide, among other things, broadcasting and video on demand), direct
broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its video services, now or
in the future; and other suppliers of video services (including two-way communications),
whatever their technology.

(x)	“VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol)” means the digital process of making
and receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

(y)	“800 Service” means a “telecommunications service” that allows a caller to
dial a toll-free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically
marketed under the name “800”, “855”, “866”, “877”, and “888” toll-free calling, and
any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

(z)	“900 Service” means an inbound toll “telecommunications service” purchased
by a subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s
prerecorded announcement or live service. “900 service” does not include the charge for:
collection services provided by the seller of the “telecommunications services” to the
subscriber, or service or product sold by the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The
service is typically marketed under the name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

2-17-110 Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions.

(a)	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person or
service when the imposition of such tax upon such person or service would be in
violation of a federal or state statute, the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the State.

(b)	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Chapter pursuant to
subsection (a) of this section shall file an application with the Tax Administrator for an
exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a
state or federal agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized name for such
service. Said application shall be made upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator
and shall state those facts, declared under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant
for an exemption, and shall include the names of all communication service suppliers
serving that service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service user
shall give the Tax Administrator timely written notice of any change in communication
service suppliers so that the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new
communication service supplier of the service user’s tax exempt status. A service user
that fails to comply with this section shall not be entitled to a refund of a communication
users’ tax collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator from such service user as a
result of such noncompliance.

5

The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 2-17-160 of
this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City
Manager pursuant to Section 2-17-175 of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

(c)	The City Council may, by resolution, establish one or more classes of persons or one
or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to payment of a tax imposed by this
chapter and provide that such classes of persons or service shall be exempt, in whole or in
part from such tax for a specified period of time.

2-17-115 Communication Users’ Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using communication
services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five and seven tenths
percent (5.7%) of the charges made for such services and shall be collected from the
service user by the communication services supplier or its billing agent. There is a
rebuttable presumption that communication services, which are billed to a billing or
service address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City's boundaries, and
such services are subject to taxation under this Chapter. If the billing address of the
service user is different from the service address, the service address of the service user
shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this Section, the term
“charges” shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or
nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the
communication services.

(b)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” shall be sourced in accordance with the
sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C.
Section 124). The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication
service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter,
sourcing rules for the taxation of other communication services, including but not limited
to post-paid communication services, prepaid communication services, and private
communication services, provided that such rules are based upon custom and common
practice that further administrative efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation
(e.g., Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement).

(c)	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter, an
administrative ruling identifying those communication services, or charges therefor, that
are subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(d)	As used in this section, the term “telecommunication services” shall include, but is
not limited to, charges for: connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change
of telecommunication services; late payment fees; detailed billing; central office and
custom calling features (including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller
identification and three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging services; directory
assistance; access and line charges; universal service charges; regulatory, administrative
and other cost recovery charges; local number portability charges; and text and instant

6

messaging. “Telecommunication services” shall not include digital downloads that are
not “ancillary telecommunication services”, such as music, ringtones, games, and similar
digital products.

(e)	Charges for communication services (video) shall include, but are not limited to,
charges for the following:

1.	regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees and access fees (PEG);

2.	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of video
services;

3.	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

4.	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

5.	video programming and video services;

6.	ancillary video services (e.g., electronic program guide services, recording
functions, search functions, or other interactive services or communications that
are ancillary, necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of video services);

7.	equipment leases (e.g., remote, recording or search devices, converters, remote
devices); and,

8.	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services, and
special services.

(f)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of communication services subject to tax
under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the service
user has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such communication
services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of
such tax legally imposed in such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of
credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this section.

(g)	The tax on communication services imposed by this section shall be collected from the
service user by the service supplier. In the case of video service, the service user shall be
deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video service (e.g., an apartment owner), unless
such service is resold to individual users, in which case the service user shall be the
ultimate purchaser of the video service. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall
be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

2-17-120 Bundling Taxable Items with Non-Taxable Items.

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable
service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge

is subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable
standards, the portions of the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through
the service supplier's books and records kept in the regular course of business, and in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and
maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges. If the service supplier offers a
combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges are separately stated,
then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall
be based on its books and records kept in the regular course of business and in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and
maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
valuation of the taxable and non-taxable services.

2-17-125 Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this
Chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor
of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the communication users’ tax to the
fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time
by judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any communication service
(including VoIP) used by a person with a service address in the City, which service is
capable of terminating a call to another person on the general telephone network, shall be
subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exists for
purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this
Chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the City for tax
collection and remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any of
the following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent or
subsidiary, a place of business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees,
independent contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the
City on a continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is
broadcast or relayed from a transmitter with the City or distributed from a location with
the City; or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the
City or through materials distributed in the City by means other than the United States
mail; or if there are activities performed in the City on behalf of the service supplier that
are significantly associated with the service supplier's ability to establish and maintain a
market in the City for the provision of communication services that are subject to a tax
under this Chapter.

2-17-130 NONRESIDENTIAL USER REBATE.

Nonresidential users of communication services (telecommunications) shall be entitled to
a rebate as provided in Section 2-4-255 of Chapter 2-4 to the extent that the maximum tax
is reached, as provided therein.

2-17-135 Duty to Collect-Procedures.

8

(a)	Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit
the taxes imposed by the provisions of this Chapter shall be performed as follows:

(1)	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at the
same time as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance
with the regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by
a service user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge and
tax which was accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of both the
charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid. In those cases where a
service user has notified the service supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed on
said charges, Section 2-17-155 shall apply.

(2)	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the
service user where all charges normally included in such regular billing are
subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where a service user receives more than
one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to
collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

(b)	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this Chapter to remit a tax
shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax Administrator,
on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included with the
return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to
require such additional information as he or she deems necessary to determine if the tax
is being levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter. Returns are due
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax
Code Section 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing
returns as confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the
Public Records Act.

2-17-140 Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers.

(a)	Taxes collected from a service user are delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal
holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator on the first regular
working day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit, including
electronic fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically exchanging monies
between financial accounts, made by a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations
under this subsection shall be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the
due date, and the transfer settles into the City’s account on the following business day.

(b)	If the person required to collect and/or remit the communication users’ tax fails to
collect the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or charges on
the customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before the due date, the
Tax Administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate
of fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance,
and shall pay interest at the rate of and 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any

fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which
the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon
persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter for
fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of
the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the
Tax Administrator.

(d)	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is accrued
under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be
paid.

(e)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her discretion,
modify the due dates of this Chapter to be consistent with any uniform standards or
procedures that are mutually agreed upon by other public agencies imposing a utility
users tax, or otherwise legally established, to create a central payment location or
mechanism.

2-17-145 Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a service
user which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed
to the City by the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the
service user. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter
shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such
amount, including penalties and interest as provided for in this Chapter, along with any
collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the person’s noncompliance with this
Chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees. Any tax required to be
collected by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an unsecured priority excise
tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8)(C).

2-17-150 Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she determines
that any person required to pay or collect taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter
has failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the proper amount of tax by improperly or failing
to apply the tax to one or more taxable services or charges. Nothing herein shall require
that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this Section 2-17-150 if, in the
opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs
the tax benefit.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the
person required to pay or remit the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the amount of
the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any

fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have
been received by the City. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of service of
such notice, the person may request in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on
the matter.

(c)	If the person fails to request a hearing within the prescribed time period, the amount
of the deficiency determination shall become a final assessment, and shall immediately
be due and owing to the City. If the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator
shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirty (30)
days after receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator to such person at least ten (10) calendar
days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person to produce
specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate the records requested to be
produced.

(d)	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant
testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the discretion of
the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of
allowing the presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the
conclusion of the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-
assessment), thereafter, by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency
determination, and shall mail a copy of such final assessment to person owing the tax.
The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 2-17-160 of
this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City
Manager pursuant to Section 2-17-175 of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

(e)	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of receipt of the
notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on
the total amount of the assessment, along with interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%)
percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations
regarding a claim by the City seeking payment of a tax assessed under this Chapter shall
commence from the date of delinquency as provided in this subsection (e).

(f)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall
be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as
established by a proof of mailing.

2-17-155 Administrative Remedy - Non-Paying Service Users.

(a)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately
withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a
person required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best
interest of the City, he or she may relieve such person of the obligation to collect the
taxes due under this Chapter from certain named service users for specific billing periods.

11

To the extent the service user has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of
two (2) or more billing periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to
collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide the City with the names and
addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of
this Chapter. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this Section 2-17-155 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the
cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(b)	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty at the
rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay interest at the rate
of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated
periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice
shall be served on the service user by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the service user at the address to which
billing was made by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user
have a change of address, to his or her last known address.

(d)	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30)
days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Administrator
may impose an additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the total tax
that is owed.

2-17-160 Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this Chapter.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent
with provisions of this Chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out
and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. The
administrative ruling shall not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology as
stated in this Section, or increase an existing tax, except as allowed by California
Government Code Section 53750(h)(2). A copy of such administrative rules and
regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office. To the extent that the Tax
Administrator determines that the tax imposed under this chapter shall not be collected in
full for any period of time from any particular service supplier or service user, that
determination shall be considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator's discretion to
settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of
Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The Tax Administrator is not authorized
to amend the City's methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750 and
the City does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose the communication users’ tax in
full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or entering into agreements.

(c)	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict
requirements of this Chapter and thereby: (1) conform to the billing procedures of a
particular service supplier so long as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in
conformance with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter; or, (2) to avoid a
hardship where the administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the
tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's
office, and are voidable by the Tax Administrator or the City at any time.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter, of any person required to collect and/or remit a tax pursuant
to this Chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said person of the initiation of an
audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period
of review shall not exceed a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of
the written notice by said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the
audit, the Tax Administrator may make a deficiency determination pursuant to Section 2-
17-150 of this Chapter for all taxes (and applicable penalties and interest) owed and not
paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If
said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax
Administrator to verify compliance with this Chapter, the Tax Administrator is
authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate
shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

(e)	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax
Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to this
Chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the time for filing
the required statement has not already passed when the request is received. No penalty
for delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue
during said extension at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, prorated for any
portion thereof.

(f)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a
right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Chapter.

(g)	Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapter to the contrary, the Tax Administrator
may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required to collect and/or remit
for failure to collect the tax imposed by this Chapter if the non-collection occurred in
good faith. In determining whether the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax
Administrator shall take into consideration industry practice or other precedence.

13

2-17-165 Records.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax
imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have
been liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records
the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

(b)	The City may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a person to deliver, to the
Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the Tax Administrator to
establish compliance with this Chapter, including the delivery of records in a common
electronic format on readily available media if such records are kept electronically by the
person in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the
subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the due date provided in the
administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to such records outside the City
on or before the due date, provided that such person shall reimburse the City for all
reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect those records, including travel,
lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly
wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

(c)	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement approved
by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer information pursuant to
California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.

(d)	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or
remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator the name,
address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently
authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii)
upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information
or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion
of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

(e)	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably denies the
Tax Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the information requested in
an administrative subpoena within the time specified, then the Tax Administrator may
impose a penalty of $500 on such person for each day following: i) the initial date that
the person refuses to provide such access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as
set forth in the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
penalty imposed under this Chapter.

2-17-170 Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter
from a person or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this section as
follows:

(a)	Written Claim for Refund. The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been
overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter from a person or service supplier, provided
that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant or his
or her guardian, conservator, executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to
the Tax Administrator within one year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal
collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by
written records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a
claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each member of the class has
submitted a written claim under penalty of perjury as provided by this subsection.

(b)	Compliance with Claims Act. The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government
Code Section 935 is a prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the
City pursuant to this section shall be subject to the provisions of Government Code
Sections 945.6 and 946. The Tax Administrator, or the City Council where the claim is in
excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000), shall act upon the refund claim within the time
period set forth in Government Code Section 912.4. If the Tax Administrator/City
Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the time prescribed by
Government Section 912.4, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the City
Council on the last day of the period within which the City Council was required to act
upon the claim as provided in Government Code Section 912.4. The Tax Administrator
shall give notice of the action in a form which substantially complies with that set forth in
Government Code Section 913.

(c)	Refunds to Service Suppliers. Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (a)
of this Section, the Tax Administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written
permission to a service supplier, who has collected and remitted any amount of tax in
excess of the amount of tax imposed by this Chapter, to claim credit for such
overpayment against the amount of tax which is due the City upon a subsequent monthly
retum(s) to the Tax Administrator, provided that: i) such credit is claimed in a return
dated no later than one year from the date of overpayment or erroneous collection of said
tax; ii) the Tax Administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis and amount of such
credit has been reasonably established; and, iii) in the case of an overpayment by a
service user to the service supplier that has been remitted to the City, the Tax
Administrator has received proof, to his or her satisfaction, that the overpayment has
been refunded by the service supplier to the service user in an amount equal to the
requested credit.

(d)	Overpayments as Credits. Notwithstanding subsections (a) through (c) above, a
service supplier shall be entitled to take any overpayment as a credit against an
underpayment whenever such overpayment has been received by the City within the three

(3)	years next preceding a deficiency determination or assessment by the Tax
Administrator in connection with an audit instituted by the Tax Administrator pursuant to
Section 2-17-160(d). A service supplier shall not be entitled to said credit unless it first
clearly establishes, to the satisfaction of the Tax Administrator, the right to the credit by
written records showing entitlement thereto. Under no circumstances shall an

15

overpayment taken as a credit against an underpayment pursuant to this subsection
qualify a service supplier for a refund to which it would not otherwise be entitled under
the one-year written claim requirement of this section.

2-17-175 Appeals.

(a)	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating to
a refund pursuant to Section 2-17-170 of this Chapter), deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any person aggrieved by
any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 2-17-170 of
this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator, shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of this section.
Compliance with this section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government
Code Section 935(b)], Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action on
behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

(b)	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund
pursuant to Section 2-17-170 of this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may appeal to the City Manager
by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of
the decision, deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator which aggrieved the service user or service supplier.

(c)	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before an independent hearing officer
selected by the City Manager, no more than thirty (30) days from the receipt of the
appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time and place of the hearing, as
well as any relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior to the hearing. The
hearing may be continued from time to time upon mutual consent. At the time of the
hearing, the appealing party, the Tax Administrator, and any other interested person may
present such relevant evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination from
which the appeal is taken.

(d)	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s files, the
hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or reversing
the determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within
fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the
decision. The notice shall specify that the decision is final and that any petition for
judicial review shall be filed within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in
accordance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.

(e)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall
be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as
established by a proof of mailing.

16

2-17-180 No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer of the City
to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected and/or remitted.

2-17-185 Notice of changes to ordinance.

If a tax under this Chapter is added repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is
changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of California
Public Utilities Code Section 799.

2-17-190 Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that
such reference to a statute herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or
to any subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of
law with the duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of
interpretation would require voter approval under California law, or to the extent that
such change would result in a tax decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of a
communication service, or charge therefor, from taxation). Only to the extent voter
approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would result, the prior version of
the statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any application or situation that
would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the
amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum possible
extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this
Chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no
amendment or modification of this Chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those
changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization
up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this Chapter.

2-17-195 Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption, Remittance, and
Expenditure.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Chapter have been properly
applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter, and properly
expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual verification shall be
performed by a qualified independent third party and the review shall employ reasonable,
cost-effective steps to assure compliance, including the use of sampling audits. The
verification shall not be required of tax remitters where the cost of the verification may
exceed the tax revenues to be reviewed.

17

2-17-200 Interaction with Prior Tax

(a)	. Satisfaction of Tax Obligation by Service Users. Any person who pays the tax
levied pursuant to Section 2-17-115 of this Code with respect to any charge for a
communication service shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pay the
tax levied pursuant to Sections 2-4-200 and 2-4-216 of this Code with respect to that
charge. Likewise, prior to April 1, 2009, any person who pays the tax levied pursuant to
Section 2-4-200 and 2-4-216 of this Code with respect to any charge for a service subject
to taxation pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation
to pay the tax levied pursuant to Section 2-17-115 of this Code with respect to that
charge. The intent of this paragraph is to prevent the imposition of multiple taxes upon a
single utility charge during the transition period from the prior telephone users tax and
cable television users tax to the new communication users’ tax (which transition period
ends April 1, 2009) and to permit communications service providers, during that
transition period, to satisfy their collection obligations by collecting either tax.

(b)	Collection of Tax by Service Providers. Service providers shall begin to collect the
tax imposed by this Chapter as soon as feasible after the effective date of the Chapter, but
in no event later than permitted by Section 799 of the California Public Utilities Code.

(c)	Judicial Determinations. In the event that a final court order should determine that
the election enacting this Chapter 2-17 is invalid for whatever reason, or that any tax
imposed under this Chapter 2-17 is invalid in whole or in part, then the taxes imposed
under Sections 2-4-200 and 2-4-216 (unless repealed) shall automatically continue to
apply with respect to any service for which the tax levied pursuant to this Chapter has
been determined to be invalid. Such automatic continuation shall be effective beginning
as of the first date of service (or billing date) for which the tax imposed by this Chapter is
not valid. However, in the event of an invalidation, any tax (other than a tax that is
ordered refunded by the court or is otherwise refunded by the City) paid by a person with
respect to a service and calculated pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed to satisfy the
tax imposed under Sections 2-4-200 and 2-4-216 on that service, so long as the tax is paid
with respect to a service provided no later than six months subsequent to the date on
which the final court order is published.

SECTION 2. Effective Date. This chapter, if approved by the electorate of the
City of San Leandro at the Special Municipal Election of November 4, 2008, shall
become effective immediately upon the declaration of the results of that election by the
City Council of the City of San Leandro.

SECTION 3. Amendment or Repeal. Chapter 2-17 of the San Leandro
Municipal Code may be repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of the
people. However, as required by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter
approval is required for any amendment provision that would increase the rate of any tax
levied pursuant to this Ordinance. The People of the City of San Leandro affirm that the
following actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

18

(1)	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by
this Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

2)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any
definition applicable to the tax, so long as such interpretation or clarification
(even if contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent
with the language of this Ordinance;

3)	The establishment a class of persons that is exempt or excepted from the tax or
the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the
discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
Ordinance); and

4)	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the City had, for
some period of time, failed to collect the tax.

SECTION 4. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall
nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The people hereby declares that they would
have adopted each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 5. Ratification of Prior Tax. The People of the City of San Leandro
hereby ratify and approve the past collection of the Telephone Users Tax and the Cable
Television Users Tax under Chapter 2-4 of the San Leandro Municipal Code as it existed
prior to the effective date of this Ordinance.

SECTION 6. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the
adoption of this Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing where indicated below.

I	hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED
and ADOPTED by the people of the City of San Leandro, California voting on the 4th
day of November, 2008.

19

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this___________day of ,	2008.

Anthony B. Santos, Mayor
City of San Leandro, California

ATTEST:

Marian Handa, City Clerk
City of San Leandro, California

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Jayne Williams, City Attorney
City of San Leandro, California

20