PROPOSITION A

Shall the City incur $185,000,000 of bonded indebtedness to fund certain costs associ-
ated with the construction, reconstruction, purchase and/or improvement of park and
recreation facilities located within the City, under the jurisdiction of the Recreation Park
Commission or under the jurisdiction of the Port Commission as further described in
Section 3 of the ordinance placing this measure onto the ballot, and paying other costs
necessary and convenient for effectuating those purposes, including costs connected
with or incidental to the authorization, issuance and sale of the bonds; and authorizing
landlords to pass-through to residential tenants in units subject to Chapter 37 of the San
Francisco Administrative Code (the "Residential Stabilization and Arbitration Ordinance")
50% of the increase in the real property taxes attributable to the cost of the repayment
of the bonds?

Digest

by the Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The City operates and maintains hundreds
of parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities, open spaces, and other
properties throughout San Francisco. In 2000, the voters approved
a $110 million general obligation bond to address the deterioration
of some of these parks and recreation facilities due to age and
overuse. The City has spent these funds repairing and improving
safety at numerous neighborhood parks, but an independent
review has shown that many parks and facilities remain outdated
and still pose seismic and safety risks.

Most of the City's parks and open spaces are operated and main-
tained by the Recreation and Park Commission or the Port
Commission.

In March 2007, the City adopted a 10-year Capital Plan that
addresses the safety and seismic needs of City-owned buildings
and property in San Francisco. The Capital Plan recommends the
use and timing of general obligation bonds, the first of which is a
parks and recreation facilities bond.

The City uses property tax revenues to pay principal and interest
on general obligation bonds.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition A is a Bond Measure that would
authorize the City to borrow $185 million by issuing general obliga-
tion bonds for the construction, reconstruction or improvement of
park and recreation facilities located in San Francisco. Bond funds
would be allocated as follows:

•	$117.4 million for the following neighborhood parks: Chinese
Recreation Center, Mission Playground, Palega Recreation
Center, Cayuga Playground, McCoppin Square, Sunset
Playground, Fulton Playground, Mission Dolores Park, Cabrillo
Playground, Glen Canyon Park, Lafayette Park, and Raymond
Kimbell Playground;

•	$33.5 million for potential projects at some or all of the follow-
ing waterfront parks: Pier 43 Bay Trail Link, Brannan Street
Wharf Park, Bayfront Park at Mission Bay, Pier 70 Crane
Cove Park, Warm Water Cove Park, Islais Creek Shoreline

Parks, Heron's Head Park entrance, the Blue-Greenway Trail,
and all Blue-Greenway projects;

•	$11.4 million for park restrooms;

•	$8.5 million for park athletic fields;

•	$5 million for park nature trails;

•	$5 million for a Community Opportunity Fund to finance the
completion of community-nominated recreation and park proj-
ects; and

•	$4 million for park forestry.

The Recreation and Park Commission or the Port Commission,
the Board of Supervisors and the Mayor must approve expendi-
tures of bond proceeds to finance these projects.

Proposition Afollows the requirement underthe City's Administrative
Code that one-tenth of one percent (0.1%) of the proceeds of a
bond measure be provided to the Citizen's General Obligation
Bond Oversight Committee to oversee this bond's expenditures.
This committee would be required to review annually and report on
the management of this bond program. In addition, the measure
would require the City to maintain a website describing the bond
program, progress achieved to date, and projections of future pro-
gram activities.

Proposition A would require an increase in the property tax to pay
for the bonds and would permit landlords to pass-through 50 per-
cent of the resulting property tax increase to tenants.

A two-thirds majority vote is required for passage of Proposition A.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote “yes,” you want the City to
issue $185 million in general obligation bonds to construct, recon-
struct or improve certain park and recreation facilities.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS:: If you vote “no,” you do not want the City
to issue these bonds.

Notice to Voters:

The “Controller’s Statement” and “How ‘A’ Got on the Ballot” information on this measure appear on the opposite (facing) page.

_____________________THIS	MEASURE	REQUIRES	662/3%	AFFIRMATIVE	VOTES	TO	PASS.________

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE 87.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE 61.

38-CP65-EN-F08

Controller's Statement on “A”

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition A:

Should the proposed $185 million in bonds be authorized and
sold under current assumptions, the approximate costs will be as
follows:

•	In fiscal year 2007-2008, following issuance of the first series
of bonds, and the year with the lowest tax rate, the estimated
annual costs of debt service would be $900,000 and result in
a property tax rate of $.0007 per $100 ($0.69 per $100,000)
of assessed valuation.

•	In fiscal year 2011-2012, following issuance of the last series
of bonds, and the year with the highest tax rate, the estimated
annual costs of debt service would be $16.4 million and result
in a property tax rate of $0.0112 per $100 ($11.15 per
$100,000) of assessed valuation.

•	The best estimate of the average tax rate for these bonds
from fiscal year 2007-2008 through 2029-2030 is $0.0077 per
$100 ($7.71 per $100,000) of assessed valuation.

•	Based on these estimates, the highest estimated annual
property tax cost for the owner of a home with an assessed
value of $400,000 would be approximately $43.83.

•	Landlords would be allowed to pass through 50% of the
annual property tax cost of the proposed bond to tenants as
permitted in the City Administrative Code. Based on these
estimates, the highest estimated annual cost for a tenant in a
unit with an assessed value of $140,000 would be approxi-
mately $7.80.

These estimates are based on projections only, which are not
binding upon the City. Projections and estimates may vary due to
the timing of bond sales, the amount of bonds sold at each sale,
and actual assessed valuation over the term of repayment of the
bonds. Hence, the actual tax rate and the years in which such
rates are applicable may vary from those estimated above. The
City's current debt management policy is to issue new general
obligation bonds only as old ones are retired, keeping the prop-
erty tax impact from general obligation bonds approximately the
same over time.

How “A” Got on the Ballot

On October 23, 2007 the Board of Supervisors voted 10 to 0 to
place Proposition A on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

Yes: Supervisors Alioto-Pier, Ammiano, Chu, Daly, Dufty, Elsbernd,
Maxwell, Mirkarimi, Peskin and Sandoval.

Excused: Supervisor McGoldrick.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 662/s% AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THE FACING PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE 87.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE 61.

38-CP64-EN-F08

Clean

Parks

This disclaimer applies to the proponent's argument on this page. The Board of Supervisors authorized the submission of the follow-
ing argument. As of the date of the publication of this Voter Information Pamphlet, the following Supervisors endorse the measure:
Supervisors Alioto-Pier, Ammiano, Chu, Daly, Dufty, Elsbernd, Maxwell, McGoldrick, Mirkarimi, Peskin and Sandoval.

PROPONENTS ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

URGENT NEED IN OUR PARKS

Proposition A is the first step in San Francisco's ten year capital
plan to repair and rebuild the City's aging and broken physical
structures, starting with heavily-used neighborhood parks. An
independent analysis identified more than $1.7 billion in struc-
tural work needed in our parks.

This bond will fix our neighborhood parks where basic safety,
cleanliness and accessibility are threatened. From Dolores Park to
Sunset Playground, from Chinese Recreation Center to Palega
Playground, we can protect the quality of parks across the City.

The bond will:

•	Replace dangerous and broken playground equipment

•	Repair or replace park restrooms

•	Retrofit recreation centers and waterfront open space to make
them earthquake safe

•	Plant trees in parks throughout San Francisco

•	Replace deteriorating athletic fields

•	Restore nature trails in parks

•	Create a blue-greenway of parks along the waterfront

•	Provide matching grants for community-initiated, small-scale
repairs

NO INCREASE IN THE PROPERTY TAX RATE

Under current City policy, these parks bonds will only be issued
after old bonds are repaid. As a result, there will be no increase in
the property tax rate used to repay these bonds.

STRICT ACCOUNTABILITY FOR PROGRESS AND
SPENDING

To ensure that funds are properly spent, a citizen's bond over-
sight committee will track spending through independent audits;
they are authorized to stop the sale of bonds if necessary. Major
projects have already been identified and assigned budgets.
Progress will be monitored through monthly reports at the
Recreation and Parks and Port Commissions.

Unanimously passed at the Board of Supervisors.

Vote YES on Proposition A.

Mayor Gavin Newsom

Board President Supervisor Aaron Peskin

Supervisor Michela Alioto-Pier

Supervisor Tom Ammiano

Supervisor Carmen Chu

Supervisor Chris Daly

Supervisor Bevan Dufty

Supervisor Sean Elsbernd

Supervisor Sophie Maxwell

Supervisor Jake McGoldrick

Supervisor Ross Mirkarimi

Supervisor Gerardo Sandoval

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

NO REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A WAS SUBMITTED

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
________________Arguments	are	printed	as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected._________

38-CP66-EN-F08



OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

NO OPPONENT S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A WAS SUBMITTED

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

NO REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A WAS SUBMITTED

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP67-EN-F08

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Yes on Prop A For the Health of Our City

Parks play an important role in maintaining our physical and
mental health. Active recreation on our City's athletic fields helps
keep our bodies in shape and fights obesity in our children. Hiking
in our City's parks provides physical activity and relief from the
pressures of urban living. A walk through our parks' woodlands,
wildflowers, grasslands and wetlands lets us experience the tran-
quil and calming beauty of nature without leaving San Francisco.

Unfortunately, our parks are older and worse for the wear. They
need help to get back in shape. Prop. A restores San Francisco
parks so we can get the exercise we need to stay healthy and the
time in nature we need to stay sharp and at peace.

Yes on Prop. A.

Sierra Club

San Francisco Tomorrow
Nature In The City

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is San
Francisco Tomorrow.

Business, labor, tenants and homeowners agree - VOTE YES
on A.

Your YES vote on A will extend critically important park and
recreation center repairs and improvements to every city neigh-
borhood

Twelve projects from Cabrillo Playground in District One to
Cayuga Playground in District Eleven, dozens of new park rest-
rooms, renovated athletic fields, a unique neighborhood grants
program, trail and forest maintenance and new parks along the
waterfront - all with NO INCREASE IN THE PROPERTY TAX
RATE!

The city's ten year capital plan provides for new bonds to be
issued as old bonds are paid-off, which, along with normal growth
in values, means no increase in tax rates.

Restore our parks and open up the waterfront to the public -
vote YES on A.

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

PAR supports Proposition A because it combines sound plan-
ning and sound financing to achieve safe and clean neighborhood
parks across San Francisco. Recreation Centers receive seismic
upgrades to make them earthquake safe; broken and dangerous
playground equipment will be repaired and replaced; restrooms
will be renovated and rebuild; trees and trails will be planted and
restored.

On February 5th, please join PAR in voting YES on Propo-
sition A.

Planning Association for the Richmond - PAR

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Planning Association for the Richmond.

Prop. A Protects Open Space in the City

San Francisco is home to an amazing diversity of plants, ani-
mals and geological features that have evolved and thrived in our
open space parks. Prop. A will protect open space and restore the
hiking trails that allow us access to these beautiful open spaces. It
will help keep these parks healthy and enjoyable for years to
come.

Jake Sigg, Chair
Conservation Committee
California Native Plant Society
Yerba Buena Chapter

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Jake Sigg.

YES ON PROP. A - Keep Improving our Parks

The Neighborhood Parks Council supports Prop. A because it
provides an Opportunity Fund for all neighborhoods to access for
small park projects, it provides new funds for trees and trails, and
it fixes many playgrounds, toilets, recreation centers, and parks
that are falling apart. Every neighborhood in San Francisco
deserves high quality parks and park programs. Prop. A will get us
one step closer to this goal.

Please join us in Voting YES on Prop. A.

Neighborhood Parks Council

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Neighborhood Parks Council.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP68-EN-F08

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

The San Francisco Democratic Party endorses and strongly
supports Proposition A on the February 5th ballot and urges a
YES vote.

This bond is necessary to ensure the safety and cleanliness of
neighborhood parks for families and children: to make recreation
centers earthquake safe, repair and replace broken playground
equipment and lighting, fix park bathrooms, stabilize waterfront
sea walls, expand disabled access to public facilities, protect and
preserve trails and open space, and plant new trees.

The bond is subject to an annual independent audit with strict
oversight by a citizens committee. Under the City's policy of sell-
ing new bonds only when old ones are repaid, we can fix our
parks, but keep our taxes the same.

This bond is necessary and fair. YES ON A.

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
San Francisco Parks Trust.

YES on A - Support Our Neighborhood Parks

Proposition A will preserve and restore San Francisco's neigh-
borhood parks. These are the parks we use every day for soccer
and softball, for casual strolls and long distance runs, for pushing
children in swings and watching birds in their nests. Our neigh-
borhood parks serve as our collective backyards and provide
needed respite from city living.

And they need our help.

Prop. A will fix up the parks and recreation centers with the
most need, improve earthquake safety at high-risk recreation cen-
ters, repair broken playground equipment, fix broken lights, plant
trees and rebuild walkways. Prop. A will fix these facilities and
grounds while maintaining current tax rates.

Love Your Parks - Vote Yes on Prop. A

San Francisco Parks Trust

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
San Francisco Parks Trust.

San Francisco public schools depend on the resources and sup-
port of City parks and recreation facilities. This bond will rebuild
recreation centers to make them earthquake safe and structurally
sound; it reconditions pitted and overused athletic fields on which
public school teams practice and compete. With limited funds
available for public schools, this bond stretches the dollars by
rebuilding neighborhood parks and facilities badly needed by the
city's school children.

On February 5th, vote Yes on A
San Francisco School Alliance

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
San Francisco School Alliance.

YES on Proposition A — Renovate our Parks and Playgrounds

Neighborhood parks improve our health, strengthen our com-
munity, provide places for our kids to play, and make our city a
better places to live and work.. Proposition A will restore and
repair our parks and create clean safe places for our children.

YES on Proposition A—Green our city by Planting Trees
within our Parks

Trees help the environment by reducing air and water pollution,
and they also cool the city. Many of the trees now in our parks are
old, or diseased, and will likely die in the next few years. Prop. A
will let the city identify those parks where the need is greatest, and
plant new trees for our families to enjoy..

YES on Proposition A—Improve Access to our natural areas by
Fixing Hiking Trails

Many of the hiking trails in our parks are falling apart - victims
of heavy use and erosion. Prop. A will provide a way to repair
these trails so we can all enjoy them..

Please join us in repairing and preserving San Francisco's parks
and natural areas.

Vote YES on Proposition A

Trust for Public Land

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Trust for Public Land.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP69-EN-F08

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Yes on Proposition A

Proposition A is “family friendly” and important to school chil-
dren. For many City kids, neighborhood parks are their backyards.
This bond repairs broken playground equipment, replaces dam-
aged restrooms, installs safety lighting and rebuilds recreation
centers to be earth-quake safe.

San Francisco desperately needs more athletic fields. Sports
make all the difference in keeping kids engaged, in school, away
from gangs and out of trouble. We need the sports fields this bond
will provide.

The bond will plant trees and restore paths in natural areas, giv-
ing those kids who rarely leave the City a non-urban experience.

Schools and parks are natural partners where kids are con-
cerned.

Please vote YES.

Mark Sanchez, President - Board of Education*

Hydra Mendoza, Board of Education*

Eric Mar, Board of Education*

*For identification purposes only

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
San Francisco Parks Trust.

Prop. A - Restore Our Parks!

Prop. A means more trees, more plants and better park land-
scapes. Valuable staff time wasted patching together broken
equipment will instead be devoted to maintaining the plants and
landscapes that make our parks beautiful. Improved irrigation
means athletic fields will be properly watered and ready for play.
The department's forestry program will plant a new generation of
trees in our parks to replace our many aging trees and restore trails
so more people can access and enjoy the City's open space.

Give your neighborhood park gardener a hand.

Vote YES on Prop. A.

Laborer \'s, Local 261

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Laborers 261.

San Francisco urgently needs the greening effect of planting
more trees in parks. Many of the nearly 100,000 trees currently in
our parks were planted shortly after World War II and have a life
expectancy of 30 or 40 years. Some are diseased and infested.
Proposition A commits $4 million dollars to a long term effort to
replace dying trees and add new ones. Not a moment too soon.

YES ON MORE TREES IN THE CITY.

YES ON A.

Friends of the Urban Forest

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Friends of the Urban Forest.

Over the past decade, green space in neighborhood parks have
not received the attention it needs. Proposition A will restore trails
in parks with natural areas and open space. It will increase the
number of trees planted in city parks and it will upgrade and
install irrigation systems so that the work that is done will be
maintained.

Join us in supporting great neighborhood parks.

YES ON A

Local 261 's City Committee

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Laborers Local 261 City Committee.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is Laborers
Local 261 City Committee from membership dues.

Yes on A - Repair Parks Throughout the Community

Prop. A will rebuild neglected parks and recreation centers that
are falling into disrepair. Chinese Recreation Center, Sunset
Playground and Recreation Center, Palega Playground and
Recreation Center, and Fulton Playground and Recreation Center
will all receive seismic work to improve earthquake safety and
renovate them into modern facilities that can better serve the thou-
sands of residents who use them regularly.

Many communities have waited a long time for these repairs.

Let's make sure they happen.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP70-EN-F08

Clean and Safe Neighborhood

Parks Bonds, 2008

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Vote Yes on Prop. A

A

YES on A

Chinese American Citizens' Alliance

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Chinese American Citizens' Alliance.

Preserve Open Space Along the Bay
YES ON A

San Francisco's waterfront must be cherished and protected.
Prop. A achieves these goals by turning difficult-to-access open
space along the bayshore into a string of parks stretching to the
City's southern edge. These green spaces are critical pieces of San
Francisco's remarkable ecology and one of them, Heron's Head
Park, is a vibrant wetland serving as an important haven for
migratory birds.

San Francisco's unique environment provides habitats for wild-
life like quail, coyotes and numerous species of birds, as well as
wetlands that foster healthy bay and marine life.

San Francisco League of Conservation Voters

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
San Francisco League of Conservation Voters.

Yes on A - Smart Planning for Our Parks

Successful parks and open space are essential for a vibrant
city.

Prop. A will rebuild and replace aging and unsafe structures in
our neighborhood parks without increasing our tax rate.

As the first bond from our City's 10-year capital plan, Prop. A
is a sound investment. Its tough accountability measures ensure
that the bond program stays on budget and allows the public to
track individual park projects through a city website. The measure
also funds independent audits for a citizen's bond oversight com-
mittee that can stop the sale of bonds if necessary.

Funding park repairs on both Rec Park and Port property
addresses the pressing needs for open space citywide in our neigh-
borhoods and in new public spaces along the San Francisco Bay.

Prop. A couples good public policy with responsible financing.

SPUR

San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association
www.spur.org

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
SPUR Voter Education Fund.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. The San Francisco Planning and Urban Research
Association, 2. Jean Fraser, 3. David Hartley.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP71-EN-F08

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Prop A is a jobs program disguised as a parks bond.

San Francisco already has more public employees per capita
than any other American city. For 50 years, the Parks Dept, man-
aged to maintain and improve our parks using operating funds. In
2000 we gave them $110 million in new property taxes for
improvements - did they spend it wisely? No. Remember the
news stories, caught on tape, about park employees stealing plants
and materials for their homes? They all still work for the City, and
now they want $185 million more.

The Parks Dept, needs new management, not new tax money.

Don't believe the promises of the bond campaign - they won't
deliver because there is no accountability.

Vote NO on Prop A.

San Francisco Taxpayers Union

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
San Francisco Taxpayers Union.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
________________Arguments	are	printed	as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected._________

38-CP72-EN-F08

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION A

PROPOSITION A

Ordinance calling and providing for a special election to be held in
the City and County of San Francisco on Thesday, February 5th
2008, for the purpose of submitting to the voters of the City and
County of San Francisco a proposition to incur the following bonded
debt of the City and County: One Hundred and Eighty-Five Million
Dollars ($185,000,000) for the construction, reconstruction, pur-
chase, and/or improvement of park and recreation facilities within
the City and County of San Francisco and all other structures,
improvements, and related costs necessary or convenient for the
foregoing purposes and paying all other costs necessary and conve-
nient for effectuating those purposes; authorizing landlords to pass-
through fifty percent (50%) of the resulting property tax increase to
residential tenants in accordance with Chapter 37 of the San
Francisco Administrative Code; finding that the estimated cost of
such proposed project is and will be too great to be paid out of the
ordinary annual income and revenue of the City and County and will
require expenditures greater than the amount allowed therefore by
the annual tax levy; reciting the estimated cost of such proposed
project; fixing the date of election and the manner of holding such
election and the procedure for voting for or against the proposition;
fixing the maximum rate of interest on such bonds and providing for
the levy and collection of taxes to pay both principal and interest
thereof; prescribing notice to be given of such election; finding that
a portion of the proposed project is categorically exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act, and the remainder of the pro-
posed project is excluded from the California Environmental Quality
Act; finding that the proposed project is in conformity with the pri-
ority policies of Planning Code Section 101.1(b) and with the General
Plan consistency requirement of Administrative Code Section 2A.53;
consolidating the special election with the general election; establish-
ing the election precincts, voting places and officers for the election;
waiving the word limitation on ballot propositions imposed by San
Francisco Municipal Elections Code Section 510; complying with
Section 53410 of the California Government Code; incorporating the
provisions of the San Francisco Administrative Code, Sections 530 -
5.36; and waiving the time requirements specified in Section 234 of
the San Francisco Administrative Code.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. Findings.

A.	City and County of San Francisco ("City") staff has iden-
tified several park and recreation improvement projects within the City
to address public safety hazards, the condition of neighborhood park
facilities and lands, and other issues facing the City's recreation system.

B.	This Board of Supervisors (this "Board") now wishes to
describe the terms of a ballot measure seeking approval for the issuance
of general obligation bonds (the "Bonds") to finance all or a portion of
the projects described above.

Section 2. A special election is hereby called and ordered to be
held in the City on Tuesday, the 5th day of February, 2008, for the pur-
pose of submitting to the electors of the City a proposition to incur
bonded indebtedness of the City for the project hereinafter described in
the amount and for the purposes stated:

"CLEAN AND SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS BONDS,
2008. $185,000,000 of bonded indebtedness to fund certain costs associ-
ated with the construction, reconstruction, purchase, and/or improvement
of park and recreation facilities under the jurisdiction of the Recreation
and Park Commission or under the jurisdiction of the Port Commission
located within the City and County of San Francisco and all other struc-
tures, improvements and related costs necessary or convenient for the
foregoing purpose, as further described in Section 3 of the ordinance
placing this measure onto the ballot, and paying other costs necessary
and convenient for effectuating those purposes, including costs connect-

ed with or incidental to the authorization, issuance and sale of the bonds;
and authorizing landlords to pass-through to residential tenants in units
subject to Chapter 37 of the San Francisco Administrative Code (the
“Residential Stabilization and Arbitration Ordinance") 50% of the
increase in the real property taxes attributable to the cost of the repay-
ment of the bonds.

The special election hereby called and ordered shall be referred to
herein as the “Bond Special Election.”

Section 3. PROPOSED PROJECTS.

The specific capital projects and related activities eligible for
financing under this Bond (the "Project") include the construction, recon-
struction, purchase, and/or improvement of park and recreation facilities
and properties, and all works, property and structures necessary or con-
venient for the foregoing purposes, as summarized and further described
in the subsections below.

All expenditures of bond funds shall be made in accordance with
applicable Federal, State, and Local laws governing the management and
expenditure of bond proceeds, including those governing the expenditure
of bond proceeds on capital projects and related limitations on payment
of staff salaries. Except for those Projects specifically identified as cate-
gorically exempt, the remainder of the Projects are excluded from the
California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA"). The use of Bond pro-
ceeds to finance any such project will be subject to approval of the City's
Board of Supervisors upon completion of planning and any further
required environmental review under CEQA.

The eligible expenditures of bond funds can be summarized as

follows:

A.	Neighborhood Park Repairs and Renovations = $117,415,000

B.	Waterfront Park Repairs, Renovations,

and Development =	$33,500,000

C.	Park Restroom Repairs and Reconstruction	=	$11,400,000

D.	Park Playfields Repairs and Reconstruction	=	$8,500,000

E.	Park Trail Reconstruction =	$5,000,000

F.	Community Opportunity Fund =	$5,000,000

G.	Park Forestry =	$4,000,000

H.	Citizens' Oversight Committee Audits	$185,000

Total B ond Funding =	$ 185,000,000

A. NEIGHBORHOOD PARK REPAIRS AND
RENOVATIONS ($117,415 million). The City plans to pursue neighbor-
hood park projects to be financed by the Bonds with the goal of improv-
ing the access of residents of the City to safe and high quality parks and

recreation facilities. The City has identified the following projects (the "Identified Projects") for funding from the proceeds of the proposed Bonds: These Identified Projects have been determined to be categori- cally exempt under CEQA.	
1.	Chinese Recreation Center
2.	Mission Playground
3.	Palega Recreation Center
4.	Cayuga Playground
5.	McCoppin Square
6.	Sunset Playground
7.	Fulton Playground
8.	Mission Dolores Park
9.	Cabrillo Playground
10.	Glen Canyon Park
11.	Lafayette Park
12.	Raymond Kimbell Playground

B.	WATERFRONT PARK REPAIRS, RENOVATIONS, and

DEVELOPMENT ($33.5 million). The City plans to repair and seismi-
cally upgrade areas along City's waterfront to create new waterfront
parks in various neighborhoods on property under the jurisdiction of the
Port Commission, with the goal of providing safe and high quality parks,
recreation facilities, and nature restoration. The use of Bond proceeds to
finance any such project will be subject to approval of the City's Board
of Supervisors upon completion of planning and required environmental
review under the CEQA. Examples of waterfront park projects which
may be financed under this section include:

87

38-CP87-EN-F08

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION A

1.	Pier 43 Bay Trail Link

2.	Brannan Street Wharf Park

3.	Bayfront Park at Mission Bay

4.	Pier 70 Crane Cove Park

5.	Warm Water Cove Park

6.	Islais Creek Shoreline Parks

7.	Herron's Head Park Entrance

8.	The Blue Greenway Trail

9.	Design Standards and Enhancements to all
Blue-Greenway Projects

C.	NEIGHBORHOOD PARK RESTROOM REPAIRS AND
RECONSTRUCTION ($11.4 million). A portion of the proceeds of the
proposed bond shall be used to construct, reconstruct and rehabilitate
freestanding restroom facilities in the City's neighborhood parks on prop-
erty under the jurisdiction of the Recreation and Park Commission. The
expenditure of bond proceeds for this purpose is subject to the review
process identified in the 2008 Clean & Safe Neighborhood Parks Bond
Report ("Bond Report") and approval of the Recreation and Park
Commission.

D.	PARK PLAYFIELDS REPAIRS AND RECONSTRUC-
TION ($8.5 million). A portion of the proceeds of the proposed bond
shall be used to construct and/or reconstruct playing fields throughout the
City on property under the jurisdiction of the Recreation and Park
Commission. The proposed expenditures for this purpose are intended to
leverage additional state, federal, or private contributions. The expendi-
ture of bond proceeds for this purpose is subject to the review process
identified in the Bond Report and approval of the Recreation and Park
Commission.

E.	PARK TRAIL RECONSTRUCTION ($5.0 million). A
portion of the proceeds of the proposed bond shall be used to repair and
reconstruct park nature trails on property under the jurisdiction of the
Recreation and Park Commission, and their nearby natural surroundings.
The expenditure of bond proceeds for this purpose is subject to the
review process identified in the Bond Report and approval of the
Recreation and Park Commission.

F.	COMMUNITY OPPORTUNITY FUND ($5.0 million).
A portion of the proceeds of the proposed bond shall be used to create a
program for the purpose of completing community-nominated projects.
Community resources, including, but not limited to, in-kind contribu-
tions, sweat equity, and non-City funds, applied to a park, recreation or
open space improvement project on property under the jurisdiction of the
Recreation and Park Commission from non-City sources, can be matched
by Bond proceeds. No expenditures of bond proceeds from this fund
shall be authorized until policies, procedures, and criteria governing the
program have been adopted by the Recreation and Park Commission.

G.	PARK FORESTRY ($4.0 million). A portion of the pro-
ceeds of the proposed bond shall be used to plan for, and perform, park
reforestation, including tree removal, tree planting and other measures to
sustain the health of the forest on property under the jurisdiction of the
Recreation and Park Commission. The expenditure of bond proceeds for
this purpose is subject to the review process identified in the Bond Report
and approval of the Recreation and Park Commission.

H.	CITIZENS' OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE AUDITS
($0,185 million). A portion of the proceeds of the proposed bond shall be
used to perform audits of the bond program, as further described below
in Section 14.

SECTION 4. BOND PROGRAM ACCOUNTABILITY.

The proposed bond program shall operate under the following
administrative rules and shall be governed according to the following
principles:

A.	OVERSIGHT. No expenditure of bond funds shall be
permitted without the prior review and approval of the Recreation and
Park Commission or the Port Commission (as applicable), the Capital
Planning Committee, the Board of Supervisors and the Mayor, subject to
the approval processes and rules described in the San Francisco Charter
and Administrative Code. Pursuant to S.F. Administrative Code §5.31,
the Citizens' General Obligation Bond Oversight Committee shall con-

duct an annual review of bond spending, and shall provide an annual
report on the management of the program to the Mayor, Board of
Supervisors, the Recreation and Park Commission and the Port
Commission. To the extent permitted by law, one-tenth of one percent
(0.1%) of the gross proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited in a fund
established by the Controller's Office and appropriated by the Board of
Supervisors at the direction of the Citizens' General Obligation Bond
Oversight Committee to cover the costs of this committee and this review
process.

B.	COMMITMENT TO PROJECTS. The proposed Bond
proceeds shall be used towards completion of the projects described in
Section 3 above. Twenty percent (20%) of the funds specified in Section
3, Subsections F and G, above, shall be set aside as a reserve (the
"Reserve") and shall not be spent until all of the Identified Projects in
Section 3, Subsection A, are complete. In the event that any of the
Identified Projects cannot be completed due to lack of funds, funds from
the Reserve shall be used to complete any such Identified Project. Should
all projects described in a given project category be completed under
budget, unused bond proceeds shall be applied to other priority projects
within that project category, as described in the Bond Report, and
approved by the Board of Supervisors.

C.	PROGRAM TRANSPARENCY. The City shall maintain
a website describing the bond program, progress achieved to date, and
projections of future program activities, which shall be updated not less
than once per month. The annual report of the Citizens' General
Obligation Bond Oversight Committee shall be made available on this
website. Additionally, the Recreation and Park Commission shall hold
regular public hearings, not less than once a month, to review the imple-
mentation of the bond program. Annually, the Recreation and Park
Commission shall hold a meeting to review the Recreation and Park
Department capital plan. The Port Commission shall hold public hear-
ings, not less than once a quarter, to review the implementation of the
Port's portion of the bond program. Additionally, the Capital Planning
Committee shall hold a public review of the program not less than once
a year.

Section 5. The estimated cost of the bond financed portion of the
project described in Section 2 hereof was fixed by the Board of
Supervisors of the City (the “Board of Supervisors”) by the following
resolution and in the amount specified below:

Resolution No. 502-07, $185,000,000.

Such resolution was passed by two-thirds or more of the Board of
Supervisors and approved by the Mayor of the City (the “Mayor”). In
such resolution it was recited and found that the sum of money specified
is too great to be paid out of the ordinary annual income and revenue of
the City in addition to the other annual expenses thereof or other funds
derived from taxes levied for those purposes and will require expendi-
tures greater than the amount allowed therefor by the annual tax levy.

The method and manner of payment of the estimated costs
described herein are by the issuance of bonds of the City not exceeding
the principal amount specified.

Such estimate of costs as set forth in such resolution is hereby
adopted and determined to be the estimated cost of such bond financed
improvements and financing, as designed to date.

Section 6. The Bond Special Election shall be held and conducted
and the votes thereafter received and canvassed, and the returns thereof
made and the results thereof ascertained, determined and declared as
herein provided and in all particulars not herein recited such election
shall be held according to the laws of the State of California and the
Charter of the City (the “Charter”) and any regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, providing for and governing elections in the City, and the polls
for such election shall be and remain open during the time required by
such laws and regulations.

Section 7. The Bond Special Election is hereby consolidated with
the Presidential Primary Election scheduled to be held in the City on
Tuesday, February 5,2008. The voting precincts, polling places and offi-
cers of election for the February 5, 2008 Presidential Primary Election
are hereby adopted, established, designated and named, respectively, as

38-CP88-EN-F08

38-CP88-EN-F08

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITIONS A AND B

the voting precincts, polling places and officers of election for the Bond
Special Election hereby called, and reference is hereby made to the
notice of election setting forth the voting precincts, polling places and
officers of election for the February 5, 2008, Presidential Primary
Election by the Director of Elections to be published in the official news-
paper of the City on the date required under the laws of the State of
California.

Section 8. The ballots to be used at the Bond Special Election
shall be the ballots to be used at the February 5, 2008 Presidential
Primary Election. The word limit for ballot propositions imposed by San
Francisco Municipal Elections Code Section 510 is hereby waived. On
the ballots to be used at the Bond Special Election, in addition to any
other matter required by law to be printed thereon, shall appear the fol-
lowing as a separate proposition:

"CLEAN AND SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS BONDS,
2008. Shall the City incur $185,000,000 of bonded indebtedness to fund
certain costs associated with the construction, reconstruction, purchase
and/or improvement of park and recreation facilities located within the
City, under the jurisdiction of the Recreation Park Commission or under
the jurisdiction of the Port Commission as further described in Section 3
of the ordinance placing this measure onto the ballot, and paying other
costs necessary and convenient for effectuating those purposes, including
costs connected with or incidental to the authorization, issuance and sale
of the bonds; and authorizing landlords to pass-through to residential
tenants in units subject to Chapter 37 of the San Francisco Administrative
Code (the “Residential Stabilization and Arbitration Ordinance") 50% of
the increase in the real property taxes attributable to the cost of the repay-
ment of the bonds?"

Each voter to vote in favor of the issuance of the foregoing bond
proposition shall mark the ballot in the location corresponding to a
“YES” vote for the proposition, and to vote against the proposition shall
mark the ballot in the location corresponding to a “NO” vote for the
proposition.

Section 9. If at the Bond Special Election it shall appear that two-
thirds of all the voters voting on the proposition voted in favor of and
authorized the incurring of bonded indebtedness for the purposes set
forth in such proposition, then such proposition shall have been accepted
by the electors, and bonds authorized thereby shall be issued upon the
order of the Board of Supervisors. Such bonds shall bear interest at a rate
not exceeding applicable legal limits.

The votes cast for and against the proposition shall be counted
separately and when two-thirds of the qualified electors, voting on the
proposition, vote in favor thereof, the proposition shall be deemed adopted.

Section 10. For the purpose of paying the principal and interest
on the bonds, the Board of Supervisors shall, at the time of fixing the
general tax levy and in the manner for such general tax levy provided,
levy and collect annually each year until such bonds are paid, or until
there is a sum in the Treasury of said City, or other account held on behalf
of the Treasurer of said City, set apart for that purpose to meet all sums
coming due for the principal and interest on the bonds, a tax sufficient to
pay the annual interest on such bonds as the same becomes due and also
such part of the principal thereof as shall become due before the proceeds
of a tax levied at the time for making the next general tax levy can be
made available for the payment of such principal.

Section 11. This ordinance shall be published in accordance with
any state law requirements, and such publication shall constitute notice
of the Bond Special Election and no other notice of the Bond Special
Election hereby called need be given.

Section 12. The Board of Supervisors having reviewed the pro-
posed legislation, finds and declares (i) that the Identified Projects are
categorically exempt from CEQA as described in the letter dated
September 6,2007 from the Planning Department, (ii) that the remainder
of the proposed Project is excluded from CEQA under CEQA Guidelines
section 15378(b)(4) as the creation of a government funding mechanism
that does not involve any commitment to any specific project, (iii) that
the proposed Project is in conformity with the priority policies of Section

38-CP89-EN-F08

101.1(b) of the City Planning Code and, (iv) in accordance with Section
2A.53(f) of the City Administrative Code, that the proposed Project is
consistent with the City's General Plan, and hereby adopts the findings
of the City Planning Department, as set forth in the General Plan Referral
Report, dated September 6, 2007, and incorporates said findings by
reference.

Section 13. Pursuant to Section 53410 of the California
Government Code, the bonds shall be for the specific purpose authorized
herein and the proceeds of such bonds will be applied only to the Project
described herein. The City will comply with the requirements of Sections
53410(c) and 53410(d) of the California Government Code.

Section 14. The Bonds are subject to, and incorporate by refer-
ence, the applicable provisions of San Francisco Administrative Code
Sections 5.30 - 5.36 (the “Citizens' General Obligation Bond Oversight
Committee”). Pursuant to Section 5.31 of the Citizens' General Obligation
Bond Oversight Committee, to the extent permitted by law, one-tenth of
one percent (0.1%) of the gross proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited
in a fund established by the Controller's Office and appropriated by the
Board of Supervisors at the direction of the Citizens' General Obligation
Bond Oversight Committee to cover the costs of said committee.

Section 15. The time requirements specified in Section 2.34 of the
San Francisco Administrative Code are hereby waived.

Section 16. The appropriate officers, employees, representatives
and agents of the City are hereby authorized and directed to do every-
thing necessary or desirable to accomplish the calling and holding of the
Bond Special Election, and to otherwise carry out the provisions of this
ordinance.

Section 17. Documents referenced herein are on file with the
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors in File No. 071228, which is hereby
declared to be a part of this ordinance as if set forth fully herein.

PROPOSITION B

Thg Deferred Retirement Option Program for Members Qf
the Police Department.

Preamble - Section A8.900.

(a)	It is critical to the health, the safety, and economic vital-
ity of the City and County of San Francisco, that the City be able to
recruit new Police Officers, and retain veteran Police Officers. Recent
experience has demonstrated that the City's Police Department has had
difficulty recruiting qualified Police Officers, and, more significantly,
has had difficulty retaining the services of veteran Police Officers.

(b)	There is a highly competitive labor market for the ser-
vices of Police Officers. Additionally, due to the historical hiring patterns
in this Department, hundreds of Police Officers will become eligible for
normal service retirement in the next three to five years. The City Police
Department is already three hundred officers below the Charter mandated
staffing level.

(c)	In order to address this recruitment and this retention
problem, through this measure the voters establish a voluntary Deferred
Retirement Option Program (DROP) which would be offered to members
of the Police Department in order to create an incentive for the retention
of experienced Police Officers, and as well, to attract new Officers.

(d)	Specifically, as well, the voters intend that this Charter
provision, if adopted, shall be “cost neutral” to the City; that is, it shall
not impose new costs upon the City as a consequence of the participation
by Police Officers in the DROP.

(e)	Finally, in order that the cost impact of the DROP may be
assessed, this measure additionally provides that at the end of the third
year after the implementation of the Program, the Board of Supervisors,
pursuant to data provided by the Police Department along with an analy-
sis by the Controller of the City and County and the consulting actuary

89

38-CP89-EN-F08