MEASURE K

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

Since 1970, the City of San Jose has imposed a telephone utility users
tax, which is paid by telephone customers on their telephone bills.
Currently, this tax produces approximately $26 million annually.

Measure K would reduce the current 5% tax rate to 4.5%; maintain
current exemptions; update the definitions; and apply the tax to all
intrastate, interstate and international communications services
regardless of the technology used to provide such services. As a result,
private communication services, voice mail, paging, and text messaging,
would be treated the same as traditional telephone services. Measure
K would continue the existing tax on communication services including
landline, wireless, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), and bundled
services, where taxable and non-taxable services are bundled together.
Under current federal law, the City cannot tax Internet access.

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K -
Continued

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure K. If you
would like to read the full text of the measure, see
http://www.sanioseca.qov/clerk/elections/Election.asp or call (408)
535-1260 and a copy will be sent at no cost to you.

Isl Richard Doyle, City Attorney *
City of San Jose

The City’s existing tax ordinance, like many similar tax ordinances
throughout the state, was written before the introduction of new
communications technologies. The tax ordinance was also written
before several changes occurred to federal law. Taxes imposed by
other California cities that contain language similar to that in the City's
existing ordinance have been the subject of legal controversy. This
measure would remove outdated ordinance language that is the subject
of lawsuits in other jurisdictions. If the City's ordinance were challenged,
the outdated language could affect the City’s ability to collect a portion
of the tax.

Like the existing telephone utility users tax, the updated
telecommunications users tax would be a general tax, with its proceeds
deposited into the City's General Fund. Such funds are available to the
City for all of its programs, including parks and libraries, police, fire, and
Street maintenance, among other services. The measure also clarifies
the City’s collection procedures and the process for appealing tax
calculations. The revenues from the tax imposed by Measure K would
be subject to the annual audit performed by the City's independent
auditor which is reported in the City's Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report.

The measure has no effect on the existing utility users tax applied to
electrical, gas and water services. The measure does not apply to
charges for Internet services, including digital downloads, such as
books, ringtones, games and similar products.

A "yes'1 vote is a vote to approve the updated telecommunications users
tax as described above and reduce the tax rate from 5% to 4.5%.

A "no" vote is a vote that would maintain the current telephone users tax,
without updates, at the existing rate of 5%.

	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K	ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K
Measure K reduces your phone utility tax rate by 10%. San Jose residents have been paying this tax since 1970.  Vote Yes on Measure K to reduce our telecommunication tax and update it to make sure all residents are treated equally so that everyone pays their fair share.  Your yes vote will reduce our current-tax rate by 10%, from 5% to 4.5%. The reduced tax amount will preserve nearly $23 million per year in existing funding, which is needed to maintain critical city services such as police and fire protection, street maintenance, emergency services, quality libraries, parks, and community centers.  Measure K will help keep our neighborhoods safe by helping to provide for police and fire protection. It will help maintain property values by providing funding to maintain our streets, keep our libraries open as much as possible, and provide proper maintenance for our parks. By voting Yes on Measure K, you will help provide services for seniors and youth.  Measure K will be transparent and fiscally responsible. Any revenues generated will be subject to audits and full public review of all spending, to ensure that the money is spent properly.  Measure K will lower our existing telecommunications tax rate 10% and protect an important existing source of revenue that protects city services. It will be fair, treat all residents equally, and fiscally responsible. We urge you to vote Yes on Measure K.  www.lowersjtaxrates.org, email: info@lowersjtaxrates.org, or phone (408)516-6331  /s/Chuck Reed Mayor, City of San Jose  /s/Nancy Pyle Councilmember, City of San Jose  Isl Susan Hammer .  Former Mayor, City of San Jose  /s/Helen Chapman Former Parks Commissioner, City of San Jose  Isl Michael Mulcahy Willow Glen Business Owner  NO REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR WAS SUBMITTED	Mayor Reed has proposed reducing the telecomm tax rate in exchange for extending the tax to new voice technologies. The Council has reluctantly agreed.  This new structure is a step in the right direction, but the Council can do better:  The measure lacks absolutely clear, plain language that the tax applies, only and ever, to voice communications.  Taxing VoIP services will negatively impact some of our most productive residents - immigrants who use these inexpensive services to keep in touch with family and keep their families together.  Every tax is marketed as "fair". The word has become meaningless.  As telecommunications develops, the "simple" definitions in this measure may require that all Internet traffic, to every location in the city, be recorded and classified.  This measure does not address the City’s efficiency in providing core services, or City spending on non-core projects and services. Commerce proceeds only through communication. Burden communication and your burden the engine of progress. Telecommunications and now telecommuting have always been major factors in saving energy. Taxing them reduces their effectiveness in the market of energy-saving choices.  Mayor Reed should be encouraged for moving the City in the right direction, but there remain areas where this tax structure falls short. Tell the Council they can do better.  Isl Brian S Darby Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

; REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Supporters and opponents agree Measure K reduces your phone utility
tax rate by 10%.

Don't be confused by the critics of Measure K, They claim Measure K
taxes new services such as VoIP. VoIP services are already covered
under the current phone utility tax. This measure will reduce the tax
rate for VoIP.

Critics also question the City's efficiency in providing services. In fact,
the City is required by law to balance its budget each year. Since 2003,
the City Council has eliminated over $350 million in deficits and cut the
City workforce by more than 450 positions. San Jose has fewer city
employees per resident than any big city in the country.

Your Yes vote will reduce our current tax rate by 10%, from 5% to 4.5%
while making sure all residents are treated equally. The reduced tax
amount will preserve nearly $23 million per year in existing funding,
which is needed to maintain critical city services such as police and fire
protection, street maintenance, emergency services, quality libraries,
parks, and community centers.

Next year's budget is projecting another $42 million deficit, which will
require cuts in services. Measure K will help keep our neighborhoods
safe by helping provide for police and fire protection. Measure K will
help preserve services for seniors and youth.

Till

Measure K revenues will be subject to audits and full public review of all
spending.

We urge you to vote Yes on Measure K.

www.lowersjtaxrates.org, email: info@lowersjtaxrates.org, or phone
(408) 516-6331

Isl Chuck Reed
Mayor, City of San Jose

/s/ Pete Constant
Councilmember, District 1, City of San Jose

/s/Kansen Chu
Councilmember, District 4, City of San Jose

Isl Judy Chirco
Councilmember, District 9, City of San Jose

Isl Nancy Pyle
Councilmember, District 10, City of San Jose

PR-7531-3e

N SC Ballot Type 036 - Page 37