PROPOSITION N

Shall the City increase its transfer tax on sales of real estate worth more than $5 million
to 1.5% and reduce the tax by up to 1/3 on sales of residences where the seller installed
solar energy systems or made seismic safety improvements?

Digest

by the Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: Under authority granted by state law, the
City imposes a transfer tax on the sale of real estate in San
Francisco. The tax rate ranges from 0.50% to 0.75%, depending
on the value of the real estate. The 0.75% rate applies to the sale
of real estate worth $1 million or more. The transfer tax also
applies to real estate leases with a term of more than 50 years.

The proceeds from the transfer tax go into the City’s General
Fund.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition N would increase the transfer tax
rate to 1.5% for the sale of real estate worth $5 million or more.
The Board of Supervisors could exempt the sale of affordable
housing projects from this increase. Proposition N would not
increase the tax rate for the sale of real estate worth less than $5
million. Proposition N would extend the transfer tax to real estate
leases of 35 years or more.

In addition, Proposition N would reduce the transfer tax for the sale
of residential property by up to 1/3 if, after January 1, 2009, the
person selling the real estate had:

•	installed a solar energy system or

•	made improvements to increase earthquake safety.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote "yes," you want to increase
the transfer tax rate to 1.5% for sales of real estate worth more
than $5 million and reduce the tax by up to 1/3 for sales of residen-
tial property with solar energy systems or earthquake safety
improvements.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote “no,” you do not want to make
these changes.

Controller’s Statement on “N”

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the following state-
ment on the fiscal impact of Proposition N:

Should this ordinance be approved, in my opinion, it would
result in a net annual tax revenue increase to the City of approxi-
mately $29 million. The ordinance would change the property
transfer tax rate for properties with a sale price of over $5 million
from 0.75% to 1.5%.

If the proposed 1.5% tax rate had been in effect during the past
ten fiscal years, it would have generated, on average, approxi-
mately $32 million annually in additional gross revenue, decreased
by approximately $3 million from new exemptions for solar instal-
lations and seismic improvements proposed in the ordinance.
Note that actual future revenue under the proposed transfer tax
would vary widely from year to year because large commercial
property transactions occur irregularly and are strongly affected by
changes in the financial markets. During the past ten year period,
the estimated revenue under this tax rate would have ranged
widely—from $19 million in Fiscal Year 1997-1998 to $80 million in
Fiscal Year 2006-2007.

The proposal would exempt up to one third of the transfer tax on
residential properties for eligible solar installations and seismic
improvements. Finally, the ordinance clarifies that acquisitions or
transfers of ownership interests in a legal entity are subject to the
transfer tax. Because current law does not require owners to
record a deed at the time of such transfers, no data are available
to estimate the value of these transactions.

How “N” Got on the Ballot

On July 29, 2008 the Board of Supervisors voted 9 to 2 to place
Proposition N on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

Yes: Supervisors Ammiano, Daly, Dufty, Elsbernd, Maxwell,
McGoldrick, Mirkarimi, Peskin and Sandoval.

No: Supervisors Alioto-Pier and Chu.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 50%+1 AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE 257.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE 61.

38-CP175-EN-N08

Changing Real Property Transfer Tax Rates

This disclaimer applies to the proponent’s argument and the rebuttal to the proponent’s argument on this page and the opponent's
argument and the rebuttal to the opponent's argument on the facing page. The Board of Supervisors authorized the submission of the
following argument. As of the date of the publication of this Voter Information Pamphlet, the following Supervisors endorse the mea-
sure: Supervisors Ammiano, Daly, Dufty, Elsbemd, Maxwell, McGoldrick and Mirkarimi; oppose the measure: Supervisors Alioto-Pier
and Chu; take no position on the measure: Supervisors Peskin and Sandoval.

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION N

CLOSE THE LOOPHOLES, SUPPORT TAX REFORM, YES ON N CREATES INCENTIVES FOR SOLAR AND
VOTE YES ON N	SEISMIC	IMPROVEMENTS

During these tough economic times, many San Francisco home-
owners, renters and small businesses are struggling with their tax
burdens. Yet at the same time, a serious loophole in our real estate
transfer tax is allowing multinational corporations to evade pay-
ing their fair share.

YES ON N CLOSES THE LOOPHOLE

The multinational real estate interests use shell companies and
tricky accounting to game our tax system, costing the City tens of
millions of dollars in lost revenue. Yes on N closes the loophole
that allows them to shelter their transactions - creating a more
equitable tax structure and saving essential services threatened by
our massive deficit.

YES ON N SUPPORTS PROGRESSIVE TAX REFORM

Multi-national corporations rely on our transit, public safety
and infrastructure services. Yet they are not paying their fair share
of the costs of these services - leaving the burden to the rest of us.
Yes on N is real reform that raises the real estate transfer tax on
properties sold for $5 million or more. Small property owners and
homeowners won’t pay more - over 99% of residential transac-
tion would not be impacted.

Proposition N also contains incentives for property owners to
make solar and seismic improvements to their property, by reduc-
ing the transfer tax when those types of improvements are made.
This is good for our environment and for public safety.

VOTE YES ON N

Please join with San Franciscans united for fair, progressive tax
reform. Vote YES on Proposition N.

San Francisco Democratic Party
Assessor-Recorder Phil Ting*

Treasurer Jose Cisneros

Board of Supervisors President Aaron Peskin

San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association

(SPUR)

San Francisco Firefighters Local 798
Sierra Club

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an
individual and not on behalf of an organization.

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION N

We all support an equitable tax system but this measure is not
just tax reform it is a significant increase in the tax on selling
property.

In the following year the City's own projections already show a
budget shortfall of $250 million. This means that once again we
are spending more than we have. Even in our own households we
all know that we should not spend more than we have in our bank
accounts - nor should the City.

At a time when the economy is showing signs of slowing down,
it is important not to discourage economic activity. Taxing more
for property sales could possibly do just that. We should be taking
actions that encourage a diverse and robust economy not raising

taxes and potentially stifling that activity. The City already places
significant burdens on our economy, we do not need another one
at this time.

Real reform we can all support means getting the City's finan-
cial house in order, developing a plan to control spending and
addressing our long-term structural deficit.

Supervisor Carmen Chu

Supervisor Michela Alioto-Pier

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP176-EN-N08

Changing Real Property Transfer Tax Rates

OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION N

The City has a spending problem not a revenue problem. Over
the past several years the City’s revenue has grown but our
expenses have grown faster. This is why we face a budget deficit
year after year.

We don’t need another tax; we need to fix the structural prob-
lems with our budget.

The real state property tax is among the most volatile sources of
revenues for the City. The amount of money the City receives
from this tax can swing wildly. Over the past 10 years, we have
seen it vary from a $47 million low to a $144 million high. It all
depends on the economy, interest rates and other factors com-
pletely out of the City’s control.

Proposition N is a tax for no identified purpose. The money
would simply go into the general fund and could be spent for any
purpose, without any further input from taxpayers.

This is the wrong tax at the wrong time. The City should be
working to fix its structural budget problems, control spending
and then if necessary go to voters with specific proposals if we
need to raise taxes.

Please join us in voting No on Proposition N

Supervisor Carmen Chu
Supervisor Michela Alioto-Pier

Now we want to balance our budget on this volatile tax. That is
a mistake.

This tax increase might even decrease the amount of money the
City takes in from its current property transfer tax. If this tax
passes, businesses and individuals may choose not to buy or sell
property because of the costs associated. We are in the midst of an
economic downturn and we should be encouraging, not discour-
aging economic growth and investment so San Francisco can
continue to thrive.

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENTS ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION N

Contrary to assertions by opponents, Proposition N is not an
effort to balance the city’s budget. It is a straightforward, progres-
sive reform measure that will ensure that city services are funded
in the most equitable and fair manner possible.

•	Proposition N closes tax loopholes that are being exploited
by multi-national real estate corporations at the cost of tens of
millions of dollars that should rightfully be funding vital ser-
vices for San Franciscans.

•	Proposition N ensures that huge real estates pay their fair
share in real estate transfer taxes, so that homeowners and
small businesses are not overly burdened.

•	Proposition N only impacts properties worth more than
$5 million, meaning the vast majority of homeowners and
small property owners will be unaffected.

•	99% of San Francisco homeowners are not impacted by
Proposition N

Proposition N is broadly supported by a diverse group of San
Franciscans, including the San Francisco Planning and Urban
Research Association (SPUR), San Francisco Firefighters, San
Francisco Democratic Party, the Sierra Club, Assessor-Recorder
Phil Ting, and Treasurer Jose Cisneros.

Please join us in promoting fair tax reform that relieves the
burden San Francisco renters, homeowners, small businesses and
small property owners.

San Francisco Democratic Party

Assessor-Recorder Phil Ting

Treasurer Jose Cisneros

Board of Supervisors President Aaron Peskin

San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association (SPUR)

San Francisco Firefighters Local 798

Sierra Club

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP177-EN-N08

Changing Real Property Transfer Tax Rates

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION N

These difficult economic times are plunging more and more San
Franciscans into poverty and homelessness. Increased revenue is
imperative for the protection of these most vulnerable members of
our community. Therefore, Religious Witness strongly supports
Proposition N.

- The Steering Committee of Religious Witness with Homeless
People

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Religious Witness with Homeless People.

There is a long tradition of robust non-profit provided social
services in San Francisco. These services have made possible the
rise of many different groups from the bonds of poverty to contrib-
uting members of this community. In Bayview, as the forces of
redevelopment move forward, it is essential to support services
that allow the whole community to grow. Measure N will provide
a stable source of funds for this important work. Vote yes on N.

Lillian Shine
James McElroy
Jeffery Betcher
Edward Hatter
Nicole Thomas
Jeanette Johnson
Kenneth Rogers

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Jacob K. Moody.

SUPPORT SF FAMILIES, CITY SERVICES & PROGRES-
SIVE TAX REFORM! VOTE YES ON N!

Proposition N closes a real estate tax loophole abused by some
of the biggest corporations in the world to avoid paying tens of
millions of dollars to our city over the past five years. As state and
local budget deficits are forcing cuts in essential programs, San
Francisco’s already struggling families can’t afford a corporate tax
giveaway. Close the loophole, protect essential city services, vote
YES on N!

Coleman Action Fund for Children

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Coleman Action Fund for Children.

GO SOLAR!

Support progressive tax reform!

Provide tax incentives for residential solar systems!

Reduce our reliance on fossil fuel!

Increase solar power generation in San Francisco!

How? Just Vote YES on N!

San Francisco Tomorrow

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is San
Francisco Tomorrow.

Vote yes on N and make big business pay its fair share in real
estate. Closing the unfair loop hole will provide funds for ser-
vices such as health care and help to promote green building
practices.

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Close the Loopholes - Yes on N, Yes on Q.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the SF
Dem Party.

SF LABOR SUPPORTS YES on Q FOR FAIR TAX
REFORM

This year, San Francisco had to make cuts in public safety.
State, federal and local budget deficits are threatening even more.
Now is the time to close unfair tax loopholes and ensure adequate
funding for essential services by voting YES on Q!

San Francisco Labor Council

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Close the Loopholes - Yes on N, Yes on Q.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the SF
Dem Party.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
________________Arguments	are	printed	as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP178-EN-N08

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION N

SAY YES TO MORE SOLAR IN SF! SIERRA CLUB SAYS
“VOTE YES ON N”!

Support construction of residential solar systems! Vote Yes on N
to promote solar energy use and reduce reliance on fossil fuel
energy.

Sierra Club

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Close the Loopholes - Yes on N, Yes on Q.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the SF
Dem Party.

SUPPORT PROGRESSIVE TAX REFORM! JOIN LGBT
LEADERS IN VOTING YES ON N!

Voting yes on N will close an unfair loophole and provide vital
funding to improve city services benefiting the LGBT community.

State Senator Carole Migden
Assemblyman Mark Leno
Treasurer Jose Cisneros
Supervisor Tom Ammiano
Supervisor Bevan Dufty
Harvey Milk LGBT Democratic Club

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Close the Loopholes - Yes on N, Yes on Q.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the SF
Dem Party.

Prop Q closes an unfair loophole for corporate real estate specu-
lators and supports vital services for seniors on fixed incomes. To
support progressive tax reform and close the unfair loophole -
Seniors say YES on N!

Senior Action Network

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Close the Loopholes - Yes on N, Yes on Q.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the SF
Dem Party.

Public Safety Leaders Agree - Yes on N!

This year, San Francisco had to make cuts in public safety.
State, federal and local budget deficits are threatening even more.
Now is the time to close unfair tax loopholes and ensure adequate
funding for essential services by voting YES on N!

San Francisco Police Officers' Association
San Francisco Firefighters Local 798
Sheriff Michael Hennessey

David Wong, President, SF Deputy Sheriffs' Association*

District Attorney Kamala Harris
Public Defender JeffAdachi

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as an indi-
vidual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Close the Loopholes - Yes on N, Yes on Q.

The contributor to the true source recipient committee is the SF
Dem Party.

Reform the transfer tax and support solar energy and seis-
mic safety!

Yes on N!

Prop N is common sense tax reform. It includes a modest
increase in the transfer tax rate for large transactions and closes a
tax loophole that has allowed some to avoid our local real estate
transfer tax. It also establishes incentives for solar energy and
seismic safety improvements.

Fair increase in transfer tax for large properties - over 99%
of residences are exempt

The value of property in San Francisco is based in large part on
public investments and the quality of City services. Investments in
transit, parks, and City services all yield increases in property
values. Since we are unable to raise property taxes as values
increase, it is appropriate for the City to capture value at the point
a property is sold.

Closes a tax loophole

For years, some have avoided paying the City tens of millions
of dollars in taxes by transferring ownership of corporate entities
rather than actually transferring titles to property. Prop N ends this

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP179-EN-N08

Changing Real Property Transfer Tax Rates

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION N

practice by clarifying that transfers of corporate entities owning
property are subject to our local tax.

New incentives for residential solar and seismic improvements

Prop N provides critical tax incentives for installation of solar
energy systems and seismic safety improvements on residential
properties. San Francisco is dangerously unprepared for earth-
quakes, and far too few property owners are taking advantage of
improvements in solar energy technology. Prop N strengthens our
resilience for our next earthquake and move us closer to energy
independence.

Prop. N is good public policy for San Francisco. Vote Yes on
Prop. N.

San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association

To join SPUR and read our complete ballot analysis, go to

www.spur.org

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
SPUR Voter Education Fund.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Linda Jo Fitz, 2. Jean Fraser, 3. Kirby Sack.

In recent years, people with serious health issues, including
HIV/AIDS, substance abuse and mental illness have been increas-
ingly at risk of losing critically needed services. In their absence,
more people will be at risk of homelessness, involvement with the
criminal justice system and over-utilization of our acute care sys-
tem. Propositions N and Q will help to stabilize revenues and
enable these critical services to continue.

Vote YES on N and Q.

Baker Places Inc.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Baker Places Inc.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP180-EN-N08

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION N

The Real Property Transfer Tax Does Not Help Tenants

This Transfer Tax takes already bloated real estate prices and
pushes them even higher. Tenants will be the first to pay this
“Don’t Live Here” tax. They will feel the pinch when their apart-
ment building is sold and the costs are passed through. Don’t let
greed at City Hall stop YOU from living here.

Vote No on Prop N

San Francisco Apartment Association

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
San Francisco Apartment Association Political Action Committee.

Prop N Will Raise Home Prices

It is hard enough for San Franciscans to afford a home in the
City. Now City Hall wants to double the tax on some home sales.
This measure will raise the already towering price of homes in San
Francisco. Rather than raise taxes the City should get its own fis-
cal house in order.

Vote No on Prop N

Coalition for Better Housing

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
CBH PAC.

San Francisco's City Government is too big, too inefficient, and
not sufficiently focused on dealing with the real issues that are
affecting people's quality of life in the City. Until our Mayor and
Board of Supervisors seriously directs the city's resources toward
reducing and solving crime, fixing our city streets, making MUNI
operate on time and safely, and stops harassing its businesses and
citizens with more and more expensive social experiments, we
don't think they should be given more tax dollars.

If you are as concerned about the direction and the expense of
our City Government as we are, we invite you to VOTE NO on
PROPN.

Help Stop the Waste at City Hall!

Building Owners & Managers Association of San Francisco.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
BOMA SF IE PAC - ID#870449.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Flarsch Investment Properties, 2. Cushman & Wakefield
of California, 3. Capital and Counties USA, Inc.

Once again, the Board of Supervisors wants to “tax the rich” to
fill the City Hall coffers using the smokescreen of a worthy cause
- in this case, solar energy.

But Prop N allows the Supervisors to enact future ordinances
exempting certain affordable housing developments from this
transfer tax without voter approval - their friends will pay nothing
and you will get hosed because your property has appreciated to
over $5 million.

Tell the Supervisors that a $6.5 billion annual budget is plenty
for their pet projects, and they should learn to live within their
means like you do.

Vote NO on N.

Small Property Owners of San Francisco

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Small Property Owners of San Francisco.

Now is Not the Time to Increase Taxes

Now is not the time to increase the rate of San Francisco’s real
property transfer tax, or the rate of any other tax for that matter,
given present economic conditions. For the sponsors of Proposition
N to contend otherwise provides a graphic example of the insen-
sitivity and arrogance public officials can exhibit.

Everyone is cutting back because, by almost all accounts, the
country is in a recession. Citizens are tightening their belts.
Shouldn’t government be held to the same standard of living
within its means?

Now is not the time to increase taxes. Vote NO on Proposition N.

San Francisco Association of REALTORS

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
San Francisco Association of REALTORS.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP181-EN-N08

Changing Real Property Transfer Tax Rates

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION N

NO on to Higher Taxes

Real estate sellers have enough expenses and obligations upon
sale. San Francisco already has one of the highest transfer tax rates
in California, by allowing another increase, though on $5 million
plus sales, will encourage higher rates on lower price sales in the
future!

Don’t increase taxes, let’s send a message to decrease spending
in times like this.

Vote No on Proposition N.

Chinese Real Estate Association of America, Inc.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Chinese Real Estate Association of America, Inc.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP182-EN-N08

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITIONS M AND N

or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than six months. or
by both such fine and imprisonment.

(3)	Civil Action. Any person, including the City, may enforce the
provisions of this Chapter Section by means of a civil action. The burden
of proof in such cases shall be preponderance of the evidence. A violation
of this Chapter may be asserted as an affirmative defense in an unlawful
detainer action.

(4)	Injunction. Any person who commits an act, proposes to com-
mit an act. or engages in any pattern and practice which violates this
Section 37JOB may be enjoined therefrom by any court of competent
jurisdiction. An action for injunction under this subsection may be
brought by any aggrieved person, by the City Attorney, or by any person
or entity who will fairly and adequately represent the interest of the pro-
tected class.

(5)	Penalties and Other Monetary Awards. Any person who vio-
lates or aids or incites another person to violate the provisions of this
Chapter Section is liable for each and every such offense for money dam-
ages of not less than three times actual damages suffered by an aggrieved
party (including damages for mental or emotional distress), the actual
damages suffered by any aggrieved party or for statutory damages in the
sum of one thousand dollars, whichever is greater, and whatever other
relief the court deems appropriate, and shall be liable for such attorney's
fees and costs as may be determined by the court in addition thereto. In
the case of an award of damages for mental or emotional distress, said
award shall only be trebled if the trier of fact finds that the landlord acted
in knowing violation of or in reckless disregard of Section 37.9, 37.10A,
or 37.1 OB herein. In addition, a prevailing plaintiff shall be entitled to
reasonable attorney's fees and costs pursuant to order of the court. The
court-trier of fact may also award punitive damages to any plaintiff.
including the City, in a proper case as defined bv Civil Code Section
3294. The remedies available under this Section shall he in addition to
any other existing remedies which may be available to the tenant or the
City.

(6)	Defending Eviction Lawsuits. In any action to recover posses-
sion of a rental unit subject to the Chapter, unless the sole basis of the
notice to quit is Section 37.9(b). the court shall award the tenant reason-
able attorney fees and costs incurred in defending the action upon a
finding that the tenant is the prevailing party under Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1032(a)(4).

(d)	Severability. If any provision or clause of this Section 37.1 OB.
or Section 37.2(g). or the application thereof to any person or circum-
stance is held to be unconstitutional or to be otherwise invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction. such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions of this Section 37.1 OB or Section 37.2(g) and all clauses of
these Sections are declared to be severable.

PROPOSITION N

Ordinance submitting to the voters an ordinance amending the
Business and Tax Regulations Code by: (1) amending Section 1102 to
increase the Real Property Transfer Tax rate from 0.75% to 1.5% if
the consideration for or value of the transfer exceeds $2- ££ million;

(2)	amending Section 1105 to reduce the tax on transfers of residen-
tial property by up to one third (1/3) if, after January 1, 2009, the
transferor has installed an active solar system or made seismic retro-
fitting improvements or improvements utilizing earthquake hazard
mitigation technologies-: (3} amending Section 1114 to clarify appli-
cation of tax to transfers of ownership interests in legal entities that
own real estate: and (4) amending Section 1108.3 to apply transfer tax
to transfers o f 35 year or longer leasehold interests.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman.

Deletions are strikethrough italics Times New Roman.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. ORDAINED that pursuant to Article XIIIC of the
Constitution of the State of California, the Board of Supervisors hereby
submits this ordinance shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the
City and County of San Francisco- at the November 4, 2008 general
municipal election and that this ordinance shall become operative only if
approved by the qualified electors at such election.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 72. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code is hereby amended by amending Section 1102, to read as follows:

SEC. 1102. TAX IMPOSED.

There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which
any lands, tenements, or other realty sold within the City and County of
San Francisco shall be granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise con-
veyed to, or vested in, the purchaser or purchasers, or any other person
or persons, by his or her or their direction, when the consideration or
value of the interest or property conveyed (not excluding the value of any
lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale) (i) exceeds
$100 but is less than or equal to $250,000, a tax at the rate of $2.50 for
each $500 or fractional part thereof; or (ii) more than $250,000 and less
than $1,000,000, a tax at the rate of $3.40 for each $500 or fractional part
thereof for the entire value or consideration, including, but not limited to,
any portion of such value or consideration that is less than $250,000; or
(iii) more than $ 1,000,000 and above less than $2.000.000 $5.000.000. a
tax at the rate of $3.75 for each $500 or fractional part thereof for the
entire value or consideration, including, but not limited to, any portion of
such value or consideration that is less than $1,000,000; or (iv)
$2.000.000 $5.000.000 and above, a tax at the rate of $7.50 for each
$500 or fractional part thereof for the entire value or consideration,
including, but not limited to. any portion of such value or consideration
that is less than S2.000.000S5.000.000. The People of the City and
County of San Francisco authorize the Board of Supervisors to enact
ordinances, without further voter approval, that will exempt rent-restrict-
ed affordable housing, as the Board may define that term, from the
increased tax rate in subsection (iv).

Section 2. This Ordinance will not change any of the current tax
rates in Section 1108 (i)-(iii) for transfers with a value or consideration
less than $5.000.000.

Section 3. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code
is hereby amended by amending Section 1105, to read as follows:

SEC. 1105. EXEMPTIONS.

Any deed, instrument or writing to which the United States or any
agency or instrumentality thereof, any state or territory, or political sub-
division thereof, is a party shall be exempt from any tax imposed pursu-
ant to this ordinance when the exempt agency is acquiring title.

Any deed. instrument or writing shall be exempt from up to one third
(1/3) of any tax imposed pursuant to this ordinance if: (1) it transfers an
interest in real property used as a residence: and (2) after January 1.
2009. the transferor has installed an active solar system. as that term is
defined in Revenue & Taxation Code §73(b), or has made seismic retro-
fitting improvements or improvements utilizing earthquake hazard miti-
gation technologies, as those terms are defined in Revenue & Taxation
Code §74.5(b). and the transferor has claimed and the Assessor has
approved an exclusion from reassessment for the value of that system or
those improvements. This partial exemption shall only apply to the initial
transfer by the person who installed the active solar system or made the
seismic safety improvements. The amount of this partial exemption shall
not exceed the transferor's cost of seismic retrofitting improvements or
the active solar system. Multi-family residential properties are eligible
for this partial exemption.

Section 4. Article 12-C of the San Francisco Business and
Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended by amending Section 1114 to
read as follows:

38-CP257-EN-N08

257

38-CP257-EN-N08

SEC. 1114. ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION.

In the administration of this ordinance the recorder shall interpret its
provisions consistently with those Documentary Stamp Tax Regulations
adopted by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States Treasury
Department which relate to the Tax on Conveyances and are identified as
Sections 47.4361-1,47.4361-2 and 47.4362-1 of Part 47 of Title 26 of the
Code of Federal Regulations, as the same existed on November 8, 1967,
except that for the purposes of this ordinance, the determination of what
constitutes “realty” shall be determined by the definition or scope of that
term under state law. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence. “realty
sold” includes any acquisition or transfer of ownership interests in a
legal entity that would he a change of ownership of the entity's real
property under California Revenue & Taxation Code $64.

Section 5.____Article 12-C of the San Francisco Business and

Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended by amending Section 1108.3 to
read as follows:

SEC. 11083. APPLICATION TO LEASEHOLD INSTRUMENTS.

Any tax imposed pursuant to this ordinance shall not apply with respect
to any deed, instrument or writing which creates, terminates, or transfers
a leasehold interest having a remaining term (including renewal options)
of 50 years or less than 35 years.

