PAGE

6

STATE MEASURES

, -	VETERANS’ BOND ACT OF 2008, This act provides for a bond

I y	issue of nine hundred million dollars ($900,000,000) to provide farm

' “ and home aid for California veterans. Fiscal Impact: Costs of about
$1.8 billion to pay off both the principal ($900 million) and interest ($856 million) on _
the bonds; costs paid by participating veterans. Average payment for principal and’
million per year for 30 years.	_____

132	yes-q

133	no-o

interest of about $59

COUNTY MEASURES

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

138

NO—O

R TRAFFIC RELIEF. RAIL EXTENSIONS. REDUCE FOREIGN OIL 137 YES —O
DEPENDENCE, To: Synchronize traffic signals; Repair potholes; Extend
light rail with airport connections; Improve freeway traffic flow (5,10,14,60,

101, 110, 138, 210, 405, 605, 710); Keep senior/studenl/disabled fares low;

Provide clean-fuel buses; Expand subway/Metrolink/bus service; Dedicate millions for community traffic
relief; Shall Los Angeles County’s sales tax increase one-half cent for 30 years with independent audits,
public review of expenditures, all locally controlled?

SCHOOL

LONG BEACH UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

143

144

K CLASSROOM REPAIR, STUDENT SAFETY MEASURE. To make
essential health/safety repairs, retain teachers, qualify for matching grants,
shall Long Beach Unified School District retrofit schools for earthquake

safety/handicap accessibility, repair restrooms/plumbing/roofs/lire safety,_______________________

remove lead paint/asbestos, upgrade vocational classrooms/technology/energy efficiency, expand
after-school programs, reduce overcrowding, by acquiring, repairing, constructing, equipping sites,
facilities, joint-use buildings, and issuing $1,200,000,000 in bonds at legal rates with independent audits,
citizen's oversight, and no money for administrators’ salaries?

YEWO

O

NO>

CITY

LONG BEACH CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

A MEASURE G - LONG BEACH UTILITY USERS TAX N MODERNIZATION MEASURE - Without raising current tax rates, shall an ordinance be adopted to help preserve funding for critical City services, including police and fire protection, paramedic and emergency response, street maintenance, parks, youth services, and libraries, by updating the telephone users evolving technologies so that all taxpayers are treated equally regardless of technol	149	yes-o  150	NO-O  ax to include new and agy used?
. MEASURE 1 - LONG BEACH INFRASTRUCTURE REINVESTMENT  I ACT - To repay bonds which the City intends to issue to repair/replace city " streets, sidewalks, alleys, storm drains, fire stations, police stations, libraries and recreational facilities and to acquire, restore and preserve wetlands, shall an Ordinance be adopted which establishes an annual parcel tax of $120 per 8.8 cents per square foot for other uses) adjusted annually for inflation?	152	YES-  153	no-;  residential unit (0,4 to

END OF BALLOT

06-066E

N LA 408-008

By Robert E. Shannon, City Attorney

This Measure would amend the Municipal Code by adopting an Ordinance
entitled the “Long Beach Infrastructure Reinvestment Act” to raise revenue
solely for the purpose of financing certain infrastructure projects. Measure I, if
approved by two-thirds of the voters, would authorize the City to impose a
special tax on parcels of real property within the City. By law, the revenue from
the special tax can only be used for acquisition, improvement, repair,
replacement, rehabilitation, relocation, restoration, and preservation of the
following:

-	Streets, signals, sidewalks and alleys.

-	Storm water collection, transportation, detention and discharge systems.

-	Fire and police stations and other public safety facilities.

-	Parks and recreation and community facilities.

-	Open space and wetlands.

-	Libraries and health facilities.

The revenue may also be used for the payment of debt service on and the
administration of any bonds issued for the improvements listed above.

The proposed Ordinance establishes an annual parcel tax of $120.00 per year
($10 per month) per parcel with a single family residence, or per unit with a
multi-family residence. Rates for commercial and other uses would vary
depending upon parcel and building size. The formula to compute the parcel tax
for commercial and other property types is specified in the Ordinance, a copy of
which is included in the Sample Ballot materials and is available from the
City Clerk. The rates are subject to annual increases based on the annual percent
increase in the Consumer Price Index.

The proposed Ordinance establishes a procedure for senior citizens and disabled
persons who own and occupy a single family residence to apply for an exemption
from the tax.

The proposed Ordinance requires that all tax proceeds be deposited in a special
fund subject to an annual independent audit report by the City Auditor which
will set forth the amount of the tax collected and expended and the status of any
projects funded with tax proceeds. It further requires the establishment of a
Citizen’s Oversight Committee to review the amount of tax revenue collected
and expended, to make recommendations on the priority of funded projects, and
to submit an annual public report of findings to the City Council.

Two-thirds of those voting on Measure I must approve the measure for it to pass.
A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax. A “no” vote is a vote
against authorizing the parcel tax.

N LA 408-047

Long Beach firefighters, environmentalists, classroom teachers, business and
fiscal accountability leaders have joined to vote YES ON MEASURE I.

A YES vote on Measure I rebuilds 400 miles of streets, 163 miles of sidewalks
and 75 miles of alleys.

A YES vote on Measure I helps clean up toxic runoff that pollutes our ocean and
beaches by installing 3,000 bacteria and trash screens, 28.1 miles of storm drains
and 23 pump stations.

A YES vote on Measure I upgrades Long Beach fire stations to meet health and
safety standards, build gender accommodations for our female firefighters and
respond faster to 911 calls for service.

A YES vote on Measure I rebuilds and repairs deteriorating neighborhood park
facilities, community centers and libraries creating more recreational
opportunities for our youth.

Measure I creates a DEDICATED FUND in the City of Long Beach to be used
ONLY TO PAY FOR INFRASTRUCTURE. The City Council can’t spend this
money on anything else - it is DEDICATED under state law to fixing
infrastructure.

Measure I creates a CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT BOARD and funds are
independently AUDITED every year.

Measure I EXEMPTS disabled residents, seniors in owner occupied homes,
faith-based organizations and non-profits.

Measure I has the support of Mayor Bob Foster, former Mayor Beverly O’Neill,
Larry Jackson, Chair of the Long Beach Convention and Visitors’ Bureau and
our Long Beach firefighters and police officers.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 408-048

Measure I INVESTS in our City’s crumbling streets, sidewalks, alleys and water
quality systems for the first time in 50 years. Let’s invest in Long Beach for our
children and grandchildren.

Join us in support of Measure I.

GEORGE DEUKMEJIAN
35th Governor of California

MICHAEL A. DUREE
Long Beach Firefighters

RUDY VIETMEIER

Chair Long Beach Group - Sierra Club

BETTY JO TOCCOLI

President, California Small Business Assn.

MICHAEL DAY

President, Teachers Association of Long Beach

PR-900512-3

N LA 408-049

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IRRAKBBdOE MEASURE 1

Measure “I” does not have an assurance of infrastructure repairs, nor a schedule
to complete them. It is a wish list on the part of the authors of the argument that
these are included in the measure. What is in Measure “I” is a $571 Million
Dollar gift to the City Council and Mayor to use for any item covered under the
definition “infrastructure”. There is no guarantee that streets, alleys, sidewalks,
etc., mentioned in the “Arguments for Measure I” will be completed.

What will be repaired and when still has to be decided, not by you the taxpayer,
or the signers of the arguments, but by the Mayor and City Council, the same
people who brought you a $16.9 Million Dollar Deficit that is still growing.

The Citizens Oversight Board only audits the money already spent on
infrastructure. The Board is powerless to determine projects and schedules.
The Mayor and the City Council will still control what is to be fixed and when, if
at all.

Measure “I” is a BAILOUT for the City Leaders. It gives the Mayor and
City Council the message that bonds are okay, instead of, “Pay As You GO” to
maintain infrastructure.

Don’t indebt your children and grandchildren. VOTE NO on Measure I.

KATHY RYAN

Long Beach Taxpayers Association

PR-900512-4

N LA 408-050

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I —

Measure I is a 35 year PARCEL TAX to pay for an Infrastructure Bond.

There are no set priorities for the tax money! More importantly, the anticipated
cost of any single project is unknown. This measure states the money “cannot be
used for any other purpose”, but it does not say how your money will be used or
state a timetable for individual project completion. The city’s list of
infrastructure projects, and their importance, may be vastly different from yours.

The City Council rushed this measure to the November Ballot without sufficient
public debate. This PARCEL TAX has vast inequities. Residential properties
worth $200,000.00 and those worth $20,000,000.00 pay the same $120.00/yr.
parcel tax and 3% maximum yearly increase. Renters will likely not escape the
tax with owners being allowed to pass through their cost

In separate City documents; for the next 10 years, the City wants to take the
“anticipated” general fund revenues (various taxes of $265 Million Dollars), and
combine them with Measure I revenue ($571 Million Dollars) to allocate towards
infrastructure. These taxes, totaling $836 Million Dollars, plus interest on the
bond, push the cost of funding infrastructure at or near $lBILLION DOLLARS.
For that kind of money, Long Beach taxpayers need to think long and hard about
this bypass of Proposition 13.

Long Beach is currently at its’ spending limit and without sufficient reserves in
the event of an emergency. Adding “credit card” debt will allow Long Beach to
continue their thoughtless and reckless spending while asking for more of your
tax dollars.

Vote “NO” on Measure I, and tell the city it needs to prioritize its’ spending
within the current revenues and not ask for additional taxes to fund
infrastructure repair. We have already paid once!

KATHY RYAN

Long Beach Taxpayers Association

PR-900512-5

N LA 408-051

:==.......REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAiMSTj«EASURE:1:::::::.................

State law mandates that funds from Measure I can only be spent on
infrastructure improvement. Measure I creates a Dedicated Fund for these
investments. It is not a blank check to the City Council.

Measure I invests in our City’s crumbling streets and sidewalks, alleys, fire
stations, park facilities and desperately needed improvements to keep toxic
runoff from destroying our coastal water quality and beaches. Every corner of
our City will benefit. Projects will be prioritized by a Citizens’ Oversight
Committee and you will see your money at work to improve our neighborhoods
right awav.

We have reached the tipping point - The longer our dilapidated infrastructure
goes ignored, the more expensive the repair costs become.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure I.

BOB FOSTER
Mayor of Long Beach

PR-900512-6

N LA 408-052

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE I

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LONG BEACH ADDING CHAPTER
3.85 TO THE LONG BEACH MUNICIPAL CODE AUTHORIZING
THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX (LONG BEACH
INFRASTRUCTURE REINVESTMENT ACT)

The people of the City of Long Beach ordains as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 3.85 is hereby added to the Long Beach Municipal Code to
read in its entirety as follows:

Chapter 3.85

Long Beach Infrastructure Reinvestment Act
3.85.010 Short title.

This Chapter shall be known as the “Long Beach Infrastructure Reinvestment

Act.”

3.85.020	Legislative findings and declarations.

A.	The City’s streets, sidewalks, alleys, storm water collection systems, public
buildings, health and safety facilities, parks and libraries (collectively,
“Infrastructure”) are in need of repair, improvement, or total replacement.

B.	Funding for the repair, improvement or replacement of the City’s
Infrastructure has not kept pace with the cost of doing so, and there is a need for
additional revenue for this purpose.

C.	The City has identified an estimated $571 million funding shortfall to meet
its critical Infrastructure needs after taking into account all current and projected
Federal, State, County and local revenue sources.

D.	Many public buildings have exceeded their useful life and may be shut down,
with associated services suspended, if not rehabilitated, improved or replaced.

E.	The City’s population has increased by 36 percent over the past 30 years,
which has increased the demand on, and accelerated the deterioration of, the
City’s Infrastructure.

F.	Many of the City’s fire stations were constructed in the mid-19Q0’s and are
inadequate to meet current building standards, gender equality standards, and
ever-increasing public safety demands, and may not survive a significant seismic
event or be able to contain all of the equipment necessaiy to respond most
effectively in the event of a major emergency or disaster.

PR-900512-7

N LA 408-053

(Continued on next page)

FROPOSED ORmNANCE OF MEASURE f (Gontinued)

G.	All citizens of the City benefit from decent, safe, sanitary, well maintained,
and optimally functioning Infrastructure and the resulting elimination of
blighting influences, reduction of crime, enhancement of property values, and an
improvement of their quality of life.

H.	The City desires to increase passive and active open space through the
acquisition and preservation of wetlands and open space, serving both the
densely populated neighborhoods and the City as a whole.

I.	The City’s economic health, as evidenced by: the retention of existing and
attraction of new business, increased convention activities, and increased cultural
and recreational tourist levels, is directly affected by the condition of its
Infrastructure.

3.85.030	Special parcel tax imposed.

A.	The City shall be authorized to impose and levy a special parcel tax each
year on each parcel of real property within the City described below, based on
the use or right of use of the parcel, for the purposes stated in this Chapter. The
special tax hereby imposed shall be at the rates set forth below:

LAND USE CLASSIFICATION	SPECIAL TAX
Single Family Residence	$ 120 per Parcel
Multi-Family Residence	$ 120 per Unit
Commercial	$ 0.0878 per Sq. Ft. of Improvements
Office Buildings	$ 0.0878 per Sq. Ft. of Improvements
Hotels/Motels	$ 0.0878 per Sq. Ft. of Improvements
Shopping Centers	$ 0.0878 per Sq. Ft. of Improvements
Light Industrial	$ 0.0878 per Sq. Ft. of Improvements
Heavy Industrial	$ 0.0878 per Sq. Ft. of Land
Vacant Land and Parking Lots	$ 0.0746 per Sq. Ft. of Land
Recreational-Golf Courses	$ 0.0040 per Sq. Ft. of Land

(Continued on next page)

PR-900512-8

N LA 408-054

PROROSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE I (Continued)

B.	The amounts set forth above shall be automatically adjusted on July 1, 2010,
and on July 1 of each year thereafter, upward or downward, equivalent to
the most recent change in the annual average of the consumer price
index as published by the United States Department of Labor for the
Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County area. For purposes of calculating the
annual inflation/deflation factor under this Section, the base year shall be that
year ending with December 31, 2009. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed
as imposing a special tax upon any person when imposition of such special tax
upon that person would be in violation of either the Constitution of the United
States or the Constitution of the State of California.

C.	The special tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied upon the Federal
government, the State government, any state agency or any local governmental
agency.

D.	The special tax imposed by this Chapter shall be assessed upon the owner of
the parcel unless the owner is by law exempt from taxation, in which case, the
special tax imposed shall be assessed to the holder of any possessory interest in
such parcel, unless such holder is also by law exempt from taxation. “Possessory
interest” as it applies to property owned by any agency of federal, state or local
government, shall mean possession of, claim to, or right to the possession of, land
or improvements and shall include any exclusive right to the use of such land or
improvements.

E.	The special tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied upon a parcel of
property or improvement to property which is owned by a house of worship or
non-profit organization which qualifies for an exemption from ad valorem
taxation under California law.

F.	It is the intent of the City to tax all parcels located within the City limits. In
the event a use category is not listed in the table above, that use category shall be
taxed at the same rate as Commercial.

3.85.040	Use of proceeds.

The proceeds of this special tax may be used only for the following purposes:

All costs incident to the acquisition, improvement, repair, replacement,
rehabilitation, relocation, restoration, and preservation of streets, signals,
sidewalks, alleys, storm water collection, transportation, detention and discharge
systems, fire and police stations and other public safety facilities, parks and
recreation and community facilities, open space, and wetlands, libraries and
health facilities or for the payment of debt service on and the administration of
any bonds issued for any such improvements.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900512-9

N LA 408-055

3.85.050	Term of special parcel tax.

The special parcel tax shall take effect on July 1, 2009, and shall continue in
effect until June 30, 2044.

3.85.060	Definitions.

The following terms as used in this Chapter shall have the meanings indicated in
this Section as follows:

A.	“Parcel” means any unit of real property in the City which receives a
separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the lx>s Angeles County
Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office.

B.	The terms “Single Family Residential,” “Multifamily Residential”,
“Commercial,” “Office Buildings,” “Hotels/Motels,” “Shopping Centers,”
“Light Industrial,” “Heavy Industrial,” “Vacant Land,” “Parking Lots” and
“Recreational-Golf Courses,” shall have the same meaning as utilized by the
Office of the Los Angeles County Assessor in imposing and calculating ad
valorem property taxes. In the event that the Office of the Los Angeles County
Assessor modifies such categories, the designations contained in this Chapter
shall be deemed to be amended to match the newly created category mostly
closely matching the categories listed above.

C.	“Unit” means a structure constructed primarily for human habitation, which
may be an individual detached residential unit, an individual attached residential
unit within a duplex, triplex, fourplex, townhome, or condominium structure, an
individual apartment unit, or a mobile home or other dwelling unit.

3,85.070	Collection of special tax.

A.	The special tax shall be collected on behalf of the City by the County of Los
Angeles. The City Clerk shall file with the County a certified copy of a tax roll
with a request that the taxes be posted to the County roll for general property
taxes. This filing shall occur on or before August 1st of the fiscal year in which
the taxes are to be collected. The special tax shall be collected at the same time
and in the same manner and shall be subject to the same late charges and
penalties for delinquency as general property taxes and all laws providing for the
collection and enforcement of such property taxes shall apply to the collection
and enforcement of the special tax. After deduction of the collection charges of
the County, the net amount of the special taxes collected shall be remitted to the
City.

N LA 408-056

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE I (Continued)	"

B.	If the County of Los Angeles does not collect any special tax due under this
Chapter, then the Director of Financial Management shall have the power and
duty to enforce all of the provisions of this Chapter. In such cases an assessment
may be made against the owner of a parcel and improvements in the manner
provided by law. Any unpaid special tax due under this Chapter shall be subject
to all remedies provided by law.

C.	The special tax shall be due in two equal installments in accordance with the
collection procedures of the Los Angeles County tax collector with the first
installment due November 1st, and the second installment due the next
succeeding February 1st, in each fiscal year. The owner of the land, land and
improvements, at the time set forth in California Revenue and Taxation Code
Sections 405 and 2192 for each fiscal year shall have a personal obligation to the
City until the tax is paid for each fiscal year.

3.85.080	Exemptions.

A.	An exemption from the special tax will be made available to owners of single
family residential units in which they reside who will attain the age of 65 years
during the assessment year, who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel and who
uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence. Owners must apply to
the City for this exemption in the manner and at the time set forth in procedures
established by the City. Such application shall be on forms available from the
Director of the Department of Financial Management. Any one application from
a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for that assessment
year, and with an annual renewal with the City, for the remaining term of the
assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her
principal residence.

B.	An exemption from the special tax will be made for owners of single family
residential units receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability,
regardless of age. Owners must apply to the City for this exemption annually in
the manner and at the time set forth in procedures established by the City. Such
application shall be on forms available from the Director of the Department of
Financial Management and must provide information sufficient to verify that
such owner is in fact receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability.

3.85.090	Adjustments and refunds.

A.	Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this special tax may be filed
with the Director of Financial Management. Upon sufficient evidence of error in
the computation of the special tax, the Director of Financial Management or
his/her designee shall cause the special tax to be recalculated, and shall so advise
the Los Angeles County Tax Collector or other appropriate official.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900512-11

N LA 408-057

PftOgosE&sem^	.......

B.	Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any special tax has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the City under this Chapter the refund procedure shall be as follows:

No claim for refund of special tax payment shall be allowed in whole or in part
unless filed with the City Clerk within a period of three (3) years from the date of
the claimed overpayment. All such claims for refund of the amount of the
overpayment must be filed on forms furnished, and in the manner prescribed by
the Department of Financial Management. Refunds may be made solely from
the Long Beach Infrastructure Reinvestment Special Tax Fund.

C.	The Director of Financial Management may prepare a questionnaire to be
served on the owner of a parcel or improvements subject to the tax imposed by
this Chapter. The questionnaire may request information which would be useful
to the Director of Financial Management in the enforcement or administration
of this Chapter. The failure by an owner to provide the information requested
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the request, or the act of an owner in
knowingly providing false information, shall be a misdemeanor.

3.85.100	Independent audit.

The City Auditor shall annually cause an independent financial auditor to
prepare a report, which shall be filed with the City Council no later than January
1SI of each year, containing information regarding the amount of tax revenue
collected and expended in the previous fiscal year, and the status of any projects
and programs funded by such tax revenue.

3.85.110	Special fund.

A.	There is established a special fund entitled “Long Beach Infrastructure
Reinvestment Special Tax Fund” (hereinafter the “special fund”). Money
collected pursuant to this Chapter shall be deposited into said special fund and
shall be used exclusively as provided in this Chapter for the purposes for which
the special tax is imposed, and for no other purposes. Nothing in this Section
shall prevent disbursements from this special fund to reimburse the general fund
if, and only if, money has been advanced from the general fund to pay for the
uses provided in this Chapter.

B.	Any money raised by the special tax, including any interest accrued thereon,
that remains unencumbered at the end of any fiscal year may only be used in a
succeeding fiscal year for the purposes stated in this Chapter.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900512-12

N LA 408-058

3.85.120	Nature of tax.

The special parcel tax imposed by this Chapter is not an ad valorem tax on real
property, nor a transaction tax or sales tax on the sale of real property. It is an
excise tax on the privilege of using City infrastructure, with rates intended to be
proportional to the benefits accorded to occupants of certain categories of
parcels. It is not feasible for the City to collect the tax from the non-owner
occupants on whom it is imposed because the records available to the City do not
include the names of non-owner occupants. Therefore, the only practical way to
collect a tax imposed on occupants is to collect it from owners of the occupied
parcels.

3.85.130	Citizens’ oversight committee.

A.	There is hereby created a Citizens’ Oversight Committee, which shall be
composed of eleven (11) members. Nine (9) of the appointments to the
commission shall be residents of each of the nine councilmanic districts and
two (2) members shall be appointed to serve as at-large members. Each member
shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the City Council.
The responsibilities of the Committee are solely advisory to the City Council and
shall consist of:

1.	Review of the amount of tax revenue collected from the special parcel tax.

2.	Review the expenditure of funds from the Long Beach Infrastructure
Reinvestment Special Tax Fund.

3.	Make recommendations on the priority of projects funded by the Long
Beach Infrastructure Reinvestment Special Tax Fund.

B.	Each year the Citizen’s Oversight Committee shall cause a report to be
prepared showing the amount of funds collected from the special parcel tax,
expenditures from the special fund, and projected expenditures for the upcoming
fiscal year. This report shall be submitted to the City Council.

C.	The Director of Public Works shall designate a staff liaison to provide
support to the Committee and facilitate it in its duties.

Section 2. As provided in Section 2001 of the Long Beach City Charter, if more
than two-thirds of those electors voting on this ordinance vote in favor of same, it
shall be adopted upon a declaration of the result of such ballot by the City
Council, and it shall take effect ten (10) days after that date.

N LA 408-059