MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS
MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS A LOS
VOTANTES

RIM OF THE WORLD UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT
DISTRITO ESCOLAR UNIFICADO
DE RIM OF THE WORLD

WRim of the World Schools
Classroom Upgrade and
Improvement Measure: To repair,
upgrade, acquire, equip and construct local
school classrooms, upgrade electrical, heating,
plumbing and fire safety systems, replace aging
roofs, install energy efficient improvements,
shall Rim of the World Unified School District be
authorized to issue $23,340,000 of bonds, at
legal interest rates, with no funds for
administrator salaries and appoint an
independent oversight committee to monitor all
bond expenditures?

Medida para la Modemizacion v Meiora de las
Escuelas de Rim of the World: Con el fin de reparar,
modernizar, adquirir, equipar y construir aulas en las
escuelas locales, modernizar los sistemas electricos,
de calefaccion, de plomerfa y de seguridad contra
incendios, cambiar los techos viejos, instalar mejoras
de mayor eficiencia energetica, ideberfa autorizarse
al Distrito Escolar de Rim of the World Unified a emitir
§23,340,000 en bonos, a tasas legales de interns, sin
fondos destinados al pago de salarios administrativos
y a nombrar un comite independiente de vigilancia
para que realice el seguimiento a todos los gastos de
los bonos?

BONDS YES /BONOS Sl<-

BONDS NO/BONOS NO<

DISTRICT

/DISTRITO

ARROWBEAR PARK COUNTY
WATER DISTRICT

DISTRITO DEAGUAS DEL
CONDADO DE ARROWBEAR
PARK

U Shall the Arrowbear Park County
Water District fund the purchase
and/or lease, and maintenance, of
fire engines and firefighting apparatus and
equipment by means of a special tax of $45.00
per parcel year, adjusted annually for inflation,
for maximum of 30 years?

I Deberfa el Distrito de Aguas del Condado en
Arrowbear Park financiar la compra y/o el alquiler, y el
mantenimiento, de camiones de bomberos y aparatos
y equipamiento contra incendios mediante un
impuesto especial de S45.00 por parcela por aho,
ajustado anualmente para inflacion, por un maximo de
30 ahos?

YES/SI ^
NO/NO^

Ballot Type 19 Page 7

MEASURE U

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The Board of Directors of the Arrowbear Park County Water District (“District”) has called this
election to authorize it to impose a special tax for the acquisition of fire engines and firefighting
equipment to replace old and obsolete fire engines and equipment. The special tax shall be in
the amount of $45.00 per improved or unimproved parcel per year, adjusted annually for inflation,
for a maximum of thirty years. The tax shall begin fiscal year 2009-10, and shall be in addition to
any other taxes authorized by law.

The proceeds of the special tax may only be used to acquire and maintain fire engines, whether
by purchase or lease, and firefighting equipment and apparatus, and shall not be used for wages,
salaries or benefits for personnel.

If two-thirds or more of the voters voting upon the proposition within the District vote YES, the
special tax, not to exceed the maximum amount authorized, and for the purposes stated, will be
approved.

If less than two-thirds of the voters voting upon the proposition within the District vote YES, the
District will not be authorized to impose the special tax.

This measure will not have any effect on existing law.

RUTH E. STRINGER
County Counsel

s/DANIEL B. HAUETER
Principal Assistant County Counsel

PR-8021-1

N SB 019-021

MEASURE U

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

The fire engines and certain firefighting equipment of our Arrowbear Lake Fire Department are
old, worn out, aging and, as a result of many years of drought in Southern California, our
community, homes and families face a serious and increasing threat from wild fires.

Our Fire Department currently has three fire engines, all of which are over 20 years old, including
one that is almost forty years old (1971!) and is no longer approved for responding to fire calls as
a stand alone engine!

We all remember the Slide Fire of 2007. Our community was evacuated and many in neighboring
communities lost their homes. We were lucky then, but due to the increasing substandard
equipment of our Fire Department, we might not be so lucky next time!

Measure U will help protect our community!

•	Measure U will collect $45 per year, only $3.70 per month from each parcel of land in
Arrowbear Lake to allow our fire department to purchase new fire engines and firefighting
equipment so they can be prepared to fight the next wild fire that is certain to come.

•	Measure U will Protect Taxpayer Dollars by conducting a comprehensive financial audit,
for full review by the public, to ensure that all funds are being spent only on firefighting
equipment, as the voters intended.

•	Our local firefighters are all volunteers, residents, and home owners like you, so none of the
funds from Measure U will be spent on salaries or benefits, just on new fire engines and
firefighting equipment.

Due to decreased growth and development, and declining property values, property taxes can no
longer provide the funds necessary to update the equipment we need to protect our community
and homes.

Measure U is a minimal cost to insure that the firefighters who we depend on have the equipment
they need to protect us.

VOTE YES on Measure U!

s/lsaiah Hall

President Arrowbear Fire Fighters Assoc.

s/Michael A. Scullin
Business Owner

s/Paul A. Miller

Fire Association Member, Property Owner
s/John W. Smith

Res/Secretary - Lions of Arrowbear

s/Rickey L. Weber
Member Lions - Res

PR-8021-2

N SB 019-022