SAN LEANDRO 911 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION SYSTEM ACCESS TAX MEASURE SS	
MEASURE SS: Shall the City of San Leandro, with no increase in rates, convert its existing 911 Emergency Communica- tion System Access Fee Ordinance into an Communication System Access Tax, to in future modifications to the tax rate structu vote of the people rather than a vote of the ( to maintain enhanced 911 Emergency Sen Leandro residents?	YES
	NO
	Emergency sure that all re require a Council, and /ices to San

from doing so. Approval of the proposed tax requires a
2/3 vote of the electorate and the established rates cannot
be changed (other than an annual CPI increase), absent a
vote of the electorate. The proceeds from the tax would
continue to be restricted for uses related to the operation
of and enhancements to the City’s 9-1-1 communication
system.

s/JAYNE W. WILLIAMS
City Attorney
City of San Leandro

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE SS

City of San Leandro 9-1-1 Emergency
Communication System Access Tax
In 2004 the City adopted Ordinance No. 2004-015, as
codified in Sections 2-16 -200 et. seq. of the San Leandro
Municipal Code, to establish a fee to provide funding in
support of the City’s 9-1-1 communication system. The
system directs critical police, fire and medical resources
to calls for emergency service. The program also provides
equipment, software, facihties and personnel staffing to
operate the system. The Emergency Communication Sys-
tem Access fee is paid by telephone subscribers in an
amount that reasonably reflects the costs associated with
providing per-line access to the City’s emergency com-
munications system. The fees for fiscal year 2008-09 are
$2.06 per single access line, $14.41 per trunk line and
$450.44 per super trunk line, per month. Revenues gener-
ated by the 9-1-1 fee on an annual basis total approxi-
mately $2.5 million.

Like San Leandro, several California cities adopted simi-
lar 9-1-1 communication fees. The fee has interpreted to
be a user fee that can be enacted by the City Council with-
out voter approval. This interpretation has, however,
resulted in legal challenges. Most recently, on April 29,
2008 the First Appellate District, Division Four issued a
decision in Bay Area Cellular Co. v. City of Union City
that upheld a trial court decision that the City of Union
City’s 9-1-1 Fee was in fact a “special tax” requiring a
two-thirds vote of the electorate prior to adoption in com-
pliance with California Constitution, article XIII C, sec-
tion 2 (Proposition 218). The City of Union City has filed
a Petition to the California Supreme Court seeking review
of the decision.

In the event the trial court decision is upheld, the City of
San Leandro would be precluded from continuing collec-
tion of the current fee. To secure this revenue source, the
City is proposing an Emergency Communication System
Access Tax measure to enact a special tax at the same rate
as the current fee. If adopted, the current fee ordinance
would be repealed. If the measure fails, the City would
continue collecting the fee, unless it is legally precluded

SLSS-1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE SS

In Medical, Fire and Police emergencies, every second
counts. Rapid response time literally saves lives. San
Leandro has an excellent Emergency Dispatch System.
Measure SS protects that system, at no additional cost to
the taxpayer.

Measure SS does not raise taxes. Measure SS is not a new
tax. Measure SS simply converts the existing 9-1-1 Emer-
gency Communications System Access Fee ordinance
into a 9-1-1 Emergency Communications System Access
Tax.

This conversion also enhances taxpayer control because a
fee can be raised at any time by the City Council, but a tax
requires a 2/3 vote of the people to raise or modify.

Our 9-1-1 dispatchers are becoming more and more over-
burdened. Soon the State of California will shift the
responsibility for answering cell phone 9-1-1 calls to the
cities. This will challenge our dispatchers, but it is a chal-
lenge we fully intend to meet. We need to keep our system
strong, so we can better protect your lives. Measure SS
does so, at no additional cost to you.

Please join us in supporting Measure SS. Convert the Fee
into a Tax, enhance voter control, and protect our emer-
gency response times. Thank you.
s/John K. Torres
President, Alameda County Firefighters Association,
International Association of Fire Fighters Local 55
s/Michael J. Sobek
Vice-President, San Leandro Police Officers Association
s/Katherine M. Frates, RN
Member, RotaCare Administrative Council
s/Barbara Tierney
Past President, Floresta Homeowners Association
s/Anthony B. Santos
Mayor, City of San Leandro

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE SS WAS
SUBMITTED.

SLSS-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE SS

ORDINANCE NO. 2008-____

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 2 OF THE
SAN LEANDRO MUNICIPAL CODE, BY ADDING
CHAPTER 18 ENTITLED EMERGENCY
COMMUNICATION SYSTEM ACCESS TAX AND
REPEALING CHAPTER 16

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY
OF SAN LEANDRO, AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. AMENDMENT OF CODE.

Title 2 of the San Leandro Municipal Code is hereby
amended to add a new Chapter 18 and shall read as fol-
lows:

“CHAPTER 18”

EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
ACCESS TAX
SEC. 2-18-200 Title/Purpose

A.	In order to ensure and improve the performance of
the City’s 911 communication system, the City must
impose a tax. This Chapter shall be known as the “Emer-
gency Communication System Access Tax Ordinance”
and the tax imposed herein shall be known as the “Emer-
gency Communication System Access Tax.”

B.	The purpose of this Chapter is to require sub-
scribers to telephone service in the incorporated area of
the City to pay for the improvements to and operation of
the 911 communication system that will be financed by tax
revenues.

C.	The Emergency Communication System Access
Tax is the most practical and equitable revenue mecha-
nism to finance the acquisition and construction of equip-
ment, software, and facilities and other resources that are
needed to provide an adequate and reliable 911 communi-
cation system. The tax is intended to recover the majority
of the costs related to the benefits the 911 system will pro-
vide to nonexempt telephone subscribers.

D.	The tax imposed by the provisions of this Chapter
is intended solely to provide revenue for eligible project
costs and eligible operating costs, as defined in this Chap-
ter. Tax revenues shall be deposited by the Finance Direc-
tor in the Emergency Communication System Access
Fund established pursuant to Section 2-18-235 of this
Chapter.

SEC. 2-18-201 Definitions.

Except where the context or particular provisions
require otherwise, the following definitions shall govern
the construction of this Chapter.

A. “911 communication system” means an enhanced
emergency telephone service which automatically, or
through a third-party intermediary, connects a person
dialing the digits 9-1-1 to an answering point established
by the City, and shall incorporate all aspects of the call
delivery system, the call processing system and the call
dispatch system, including, but not limited to, selective
routing, automatic number identification (ANI), auto-
matic location identification (ALI), wireless 911, and the
computer aided dispatch (CAD) system. “911 communi-

cation system” includes the functions of the San Leandro
Police dispatch centers; however, it does not include the
City Police Department staff who respond to requests for
assistance by traveling to a site to which they are dis-
patched as a result of an emergency call. 911 communi-
cation system also includes the cost of the fire dispatch
service provided to the City under contract with the
County of Alameda.

B.	“Access line” means any connection from a cus-
tomer location within the City to a provider of local tele-
phone service offered to the public for compensation.
Within the meaning of this Chapter, and without limitation,
access lines include connections providing residential basic
exchange service, business basic exchange service, PBX
service (private branch exchange), foreign exchange ser-
vice, VoIP (Voice over Internet), private communication
service, cable provided voice telephone communication
and Centrex service. “Access Line” also includes a connec-
tion from a single mobile telephone to a commercial
mobile radio service, as defined in section 20.3 of Title 47
of the Code of Federal Regulations as this section existed
on October 1, 2002, and which has as its place of primary
use, as defined in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourc-
ing Act, 4 U.S.C. Section 124(8), a location within the City
of San Leandro. Notwithstanding the foregoing, “access
line,” does not include any connection from a customer
location within the City to a provider of local telephone
service when for any reason a customer cannot use, or as
demonstrated by the customer to the City’s satisfaction the
customer does not use for purposes of two-way voice tele-
phony, that connection to dial the digits 9-1-1 to reach the
911 communication system within the City at an answering
point within the City.

C.	“Eligible operating costs” means the portion of
operating costs attributable to the operation of the 911
communication system to telephone subscribers who are
required to pay the tax imposed by the provisions of this
Chapter on access lines, trunk lines, and super trunk lines
subject to the tax. Eligible operating costs shall not include
exempt operating costs.

D.	“Exempt operating costs” means the portion of
operating costs attributable to the operation of the 911
communication system to telephone subscribers who are
exempted from the tax by Section 2-18-215 of this Chap-
ter or are otherwise not required to pay any tax imposed by
the provisions of this Chapter.

E.	“Eligible project costs” means the portion of pro-
ject costs attributable to a project to modify the 911 com-
munication system to telephone subscribers who are
required to pay the tax imposed by the provisions of this
Chapter on access lines and trunk lines subject to the tax,
and the portion of project costs related to implementation
of a new CAD system. Eligible project costs shall not
include exempt project costs.

F.	“Exempt project costs” means the portion of project
costs attributable to a project to modify the 911 communi-
cation system to telephone subscribers who are exempted
from the tax by Section 2-18-215 of this Chapter or are
otherwise not required to pay any tax imposed by the pro-

SLSS-3