Oadla€k

PAGE- "

8

STATE MEASURES	
_ EMINENT DOMAIN, LIMITS ON GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY, UM INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars state and local governments from taking or damaging private property for private uses. Prohibits rent control and similar measures. Eliminates deference to government in property rights cases. Changes condemnation rules. Fiscal Impact: Increased costs due to the measure’s restrictions. The net statewide fiscal effect, however, pr significant.	184	YES-*0  185	no-KD  to many governments obably would not be
EMINENT DOMAIN, LIMITS ON GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION QQ OF OWNER-OCCUPIED RESIDENCE. INITIATIVE ** CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars use of eminent domain to acquire an owner-occupied residence for conveyance to a private person or business entity. Creates exceptions for public works, public health and safety, Fiscal Impact: No significant fiscal impact on state or local governments.	188 yes->o "189 N0«*O  and crime prevention.
SCHOOL  CENTINELA VALLEY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION	
. To attract and retain qualified teachers; reduce class size; maintain A libraries; upgrade computer and science labs; improve academics including ** music, arts, math, science, English, and other courses students need to qualify for college admission; and improve school safety/security; shall the Centinela Valley Union High School District levy an education parcel tax at $.04 pe years, exempting seniors, with no money used for administrative costs and an oversight committee to audit use of funds?	193	YES-*o  194	no-»o  r square foot for nine independent citizen's

END OF BALLOT

08-006E

D LA 145-010

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE A

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To ensure reliable funding to maintain small class sizes, libraries, computer and
science labs, retain and attract qualified teachers, college admissions counselors
and librarians, protect educational enrichment programs, including music, arts,
math, science and English, and provide funds for student safety and security
officers, the Centinela Valley Union High School District proposes to establish
an education parcel tax for a period of 9 years, beginning July 1, 2008, at the rate
of $.04 per square foot per year, on each assessor’s parcel located within the
Centinela Valley Union High School District, with an exemption available for
senior citizens and persons on Supplemental Security Income, and to implement
accountability measures in connection with the temporary levy that are over and
above those required by law, including the appointment of an independent
citizen oversight committee to provide oversight and accountability to ensure the
funds are used to:

-	Retain and attract qualified teachers;

-	Maintain small class sizes, libraries, computer and science labs;

-	Maintain educational enrichment programs, including music, arts, math,
science and English;

-	Maintain student safety and security officers;

-	Maintain counselors and college admissions advisors on each campus;

-	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District
accountability by providing for taxpayer oversight and independent financial
audits of revenues and expenditures.

AMOUNT OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT
The education parcel tax shall be $.04 per square foot (or less as provided below)
per year per parcel for nine (9) full years assessed against each parcel.

The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate
account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the special tax, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of land
which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Centinela Valley
Union High School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Los Angeles County Assessor/Tax Collector’s office. All
property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem
property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax in
such year.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901113-1

D LA 145-027

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE A (Continued)"

EX].-..ViIMiON FOR CONTIGUOUS'PARCELS'.....

For purposes of this special tax, any such “Parcels” which are (i) contiguous, (ii)
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held
under identical ownership may, by submitting an application of the owners
thereof by June 15 of each year to the Board of Education of the Centinela
Valley Union High School District in accordance with rules and regulations
adopted by the Board, be treated as a single “parcel” for purposes of the levy of
this education parcel tax.

EXEMPTION OF SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to the California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners who
are either receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of
age, or who are 65 years of age or older of a Parcel used solely for owner-
occupied, single-family residential purposes may obtain an exemption from the
education parcel tax by annually submitting an application by June 15 of each
year to the Board of Education of the Centinela Valley Union High School
District in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the Board.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Los
Angeles County Assessor/Tax Collector, or other appropriate County tax
officials shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any
reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters
specific to the levy of the education parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen and
SSI Exemptions and the classification of property for purposes of calculating the
tax, the decisions of a District administrative review panel shall be final and
binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT
SUPPORT

The collection of the education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset
any increase in local, state or federal government sources that would otherwise
be available to the Centinela Valley Union High School District during the
period of the education parcel tax. In the event that the levy and collection does
have such an effect, the Centinela Valley Union High School District shall cease
the levy or shall reduce the education parcel tax to the extent that such action
would restore the amount of the decrease or offset.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901113-2

D LA 145-028

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections
50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall
apply to the education parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes identified
above; (b) the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those
specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be
created into which the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited;
and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the
District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the
proceeds of the education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or
programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the
education parcel tax, as identified above.

In addition to the accountability measures required by law, an independent
citizen oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Education to
advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure
that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The oversight
committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will
report on an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds have
been spent.

PR-901113-3

D LA 145-029

-'■"■By RaymondCrF^

Approval of Measure A would authorize the Centinela Valley Union High
School District Board of Education (“Board”) to levy a special parcel tax of $.04
per square foot per year against each parcel based on the number of square feet
of such parcel, and which receives a separate bill for ad valorem property taxes
located within the Centinela Valley Union High School District (“District”). The
tax would be levied for nine (9) years, and shall take effect on July 1, 2008. The
collection of the tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local,
state or federal funds otherwise available to the District. In the event that the
parcel tax does have such an effect, the District shall cease the levy or shall
reduce the parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of
the decrease or offset.

The tax revenues would be used to retain and attract qualified teachers, maintain
small class sizes, libraries, computer and science labs, maintain enrichment
programs including music, arts, math, science and English, maintain student
safety and security officers, and counselors and college admissions advisors on
each campus.

Exemptions to the tax are available to any owners, 1) of more than one parcel if
such parcels are contiguous, used solely for owner-occupied, single-family
residential purposes, and are held under identical ownership, or 2) who are 65
years of age or older of a parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family
residential purposes, or 3) who are receiving Supplemental Security Income for
disability, regardless of age. In order to receive the exemption, the owner must
annually submit an application to the Board in accordance with any rules and
regulations adopted by the Board. Final determinations of exemptions related to
the levy will be made by the District administrative review panel and shall be
final and binding. In addition, all property that is otherwise exempt from
property taxation as determined by the Los Angeles County Assessor will also be
exempt from the special parcel tax.

In addition to accountability measures required by law, the Board shall appoint
an independent citizens’ oversight committee to advise the Board on the
expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that the funds are spent
for the purposes approved by the voters. The Board shall file an annual report
accounting for the education tax revenues collected and the manner in which
they have been spent.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901113-4

D LA 145-030

The taxes levied under this Measure shall be collected with and in the same
manner and subject to the same interest and penalties as general ad valorem
taxes collected by the Los Angeles County Treasurer and Tax Collector. The
District shall create a separate account into which the proceeds of the special tax
shall be deposited.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-901113-5

D LA 145-031

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The dedicated teachers, principals, parents, and students of the Centinela Valley-
Union High School District are working to protect and improve the quality of
our high schools.

Our schools prepare youth in Hawthorne, Lawndale, Lennox, and county
territory for their future. Our graduates go to the top universities in the nation,
into public service, and into careers in business.

The state budget crisis threatens our schools and our communities with
devastating cuts that will decrease the quality of learning in our schools.

The District has tightened its belt, cut administration, reduced expenses, and
done everything possible to focus expenditures on the classroom.

But none of this will make up for the billions of dollars the state is about to cut
from the budget for public schools.

Measure A will provide the funding our schools need to preserve the quality of
learning in our classrooms.

A YES vote on Measure A protects our schools and our communities. Good
schools mean safer streets, a better economy, and a better future for us all, young
and old alike.

A YES vote on Measure A will help retain and attract qualified teachers;
maintain small class sizes, continue education programs for English, Math, and
Science, maintain student and school safety, and improve the quality of learning.

A YES vote on Measure A protects the taxpayers’ investment in education
because every dollar must be spent on education in our schools.

An independent citizens’ oversight committee will monitor the use of these
funds, conduct an annual financial audit, and will ensure District accountability.

Senior citizens and disabled persons on fixed incomes can ask for and receive an
exemption from this measure.

(Continued on next page)

D LA 145-032

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A (Continued)

To make up for state cuts, to improve our schools, and to help our communities,
please vote YES on Measure A.

GLORIA A. RAMOS

President, Board of Education, CVUHSD

JUAN CARLOS GUTIERREZ

President, California School Employees Association, Chapter 47
JACK FOREMAN

President, Centinela Valley Secondary Teachers Association
WAYNE SPENCER

Board Chair, South Bay Workforce Investment Board

ELDA PILJ

Member, AARP

PR-901113-7

D LA 145-033

The Centinela Valley Union High School District has mismanaged our tax
money.

The district’s leadership has consistently made poor fiscal decisions and the
district’s students have suffered from those decisions. Because of those poor
decisions the quality of education has continued to decline. Due to this decline,
all four of the feeder elementary school districts have established charter high
schools or have unification plans that are attempts at offering an alternative to
families who do not wish to enroll in high schools run by the CVUHSD.

We have seen our money go into non-instructional facilities. The district spent
the 1999 bond on a plush district office, a large cafeteria at Hawthorne High
School and the grand daddy of all mistakes, the Lawndale Performing Arts
Center at Lawndale High School.

Measure A is a parcel tax that will obligate every property owner in the large
district to continuing to pour good money into a bottomless pit of unfulfilled
educational promises.

Measure A will greatly increase our property taxes that already include many
school bonds.

Measure A will force property owners to raise rents since they must pass their
addition tax burden on to their renters.

Money will not solve the problems of CVUHSD. Send a message to district
leaders.

Vote NO on Measure A. Vote NO to mismanagement. Vote NO to more taxes.

RALPH KUSSNER
Homeowner-Retired Aerospace

PR-901113-

D LA 145-034

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

The Centinela Valley Union High School District is one of the lowest performing
school districts in the state of California. CVUHSD has misspent our taxes and
created secondary schools that are so bad that many district families choose to
enroll their children in private schools, secure out-of-district transfers, or move
out of the district.

The property owners of Hawthorne, Lawndale and Lennox are now being asked
to continue to pay for this mediocrity. Measure A will tax each homeowner by
the square footage of their home. The owner of a 1,200 square foot home would
be required to pay $48 annually for the next nine years. This special parcel tax
would be in addition to the four school bonds that homeowners are currently
paying for.

The CVUHSD has not delivered in the past. Part of the bond of 1999 has gone
into the construction of the Lawndale Performing Arts Center that has not
opened due to litigation and has cost taxpayers over $15,000,000 so far.

The former CVUHS leadership has made fiscally unsound decisions that has led
to a deterioration of the quality of education offered to our children. The
district’s homeowners should not be required to pay for these poor decisions with
additional taxes.

On June 3, VOTE NO on Measure A. VOTE NO to more taxes.

RALPH KUSSNER
Homeowner-Retired Aerospace

JOSEPH POLTASH
Homeowner

ALLEN C. RICHARDS
Homeowner

D LA 145-035

FOR OUR CHILDREN - VOTE YES ON MISuMA

More than 7,000 local children attend Centinela Valley Union High School
District schools. They are learning math, science, English, computers, music, arts,
drama, and much more on their way to college or the workplace. Our campuses
include one of the top-ranked high schools in the state, and some of the most
innovative and best performing teachers anywhere. Our graduates go to Harvard,
Yale, UCLA, USC, and other top universities.

Measure A is an investment in our children. They deserve the best possible high
school education to prepare them for their futures.

FOR OUR COMMUNITIES - VOTE YES ON MEASURE A

Measure A is an investment in our community. Good schools benefit everyone in
the community with higher property values, safer streets, and a better economy.

Protect Our Children from State Cuts - Vote Yes on Measure A

The school district is moving forward in a new direction under new leadership.

But massive state budget cuts for education are putting our school quality in
peril. Measure A will overcome these state cuts and help restore fiscal stability to
our schools.

Measure A Protects the Taxpayer

Independent citizens’ oversight. Annual fiscal audits. Senior/disabled
exemptions. No funds for administration. Every dollar goes to classroom
education. All the money stays right here.

Measure A Improves Our Schools

Funds will be used for teachers, smaller class sizes, academics, school
enrichment, textbooks, and computers.

For Our Children And Our Community - VOTE YES ON MEASURE A

ELDA PIU
Member AARP

RAY RODRIGUEZ
Principal, Hawthorne High School

JACK FOREMAN

President, Centinela Valley Secondary Teachers Association

VERONICA GUTIERREZ

English Teacher, Hawthorne High School

STEPHAN YE BOLTON
Lawndale Council PTA President

PR-901113-10

D LA 145-036