ORDINANCE NO. 717-08

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF UNION CITY
AMENDING TITLE 3, CHAPTER 3.20 (ORDINANCE NO. 622-04) OF THE
CITY OF UNION CITY MUNICIPAL CODE CONCERNING THE EXISTING
PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES EXCISE TAX

The People of the City of Union City do hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1:	Findings.

A.	In March 2004, the People of the City of Union City (“City”) adopted Measure K
(Ordinance No. 622-04) to provide funding for one of the primary roles of City
government; police- and fire-protection services (public-safety services).
Measure K added Title 3, Chapter 3.20 to the City’s Municipal Code and imposed
a Public Safety Services Excise Tax (“Tax”) on occupants of residential and
nonresidential real property throughout the City.

B.	Approval of Measure K was recognition by the City’s property owners and voters
of the significant public safety challenges facing Union City. In particular, youth-
related violence was and remains a serious problem. Without the additional
funding provided by Measure K, the City would lack sufficient resources to fund
the public safety programs that target gang activity and other violent crime. The
City determines that the extension and enhancement of a special tax on occupants
of residential and nonresidential real property throughout the City, as more fully
described and set forth below, is necessary to maintain public good, welfare and
safety for a period of Eight (8) years.

C.	Measure K will automatically expire in April, 2009 unless extended. The City
has determined that the cost to continue to provide essential public-safety services
at current levels and to provide the expanded public safety services mentioned
above exceeds the amount of funds and revenues generated from all other sources
of income available for such purpose, including the revenue from Measure K. If
Measure K is allowed to expire, the loss of revenue will significantly impact the
City’s ability to provide essential public-safety services, as well as any of the
expanded public-safety services mentioned above.

D.	The City also determined that the cost of providing public-safety services has
increased since Measure K was adopted and it is more costly to provide the
essential public-safety services.

E.	Additionally, members of the public, at community and other meetings of the City
Council, have expressed a strong desire that the City maintain its current level of
essential public-safety services, and also expand its youth violence prevention and
intervention programs. Maintaining current levels of service and providing the

additional programs that the public seeks requires both the extension and
expansion of Measure K, or severe reductions in other essential public services.

F.	It is the purpose and intent of this Ordinance to authorize the adjustment of the
City’s Tax from the current rates for each parcel type, as set forth in Section

3.20.030	(“Tax Rate Schedule”), to new rates as set forth below. The Tax is a
parcel tax and a special tax. The imposition of a new “Tax Rate Schedule” is
necessary to continue to provide essential public safety services to occupants of
residential and nonresidential real property throughout the City for a period of
Eight (8) years. The imposition of a new “Tax Rate Schedule” will also provide
funding for youth violence prevention and intervention programs.

G.	The City has determined that the definition of “Public safety services”, as set forth
in Chapter 3.20.010 (“Definitions”), does not capture all the types of public safety
services provided to the people of the City using revenue generated from the Tax
and therefore the definition of “Public safety services” should be amended.

H.	The City recognizes that occupants of both residential and nonresidential property
use public-safety services. However, the City has determined that the use of
public-safety services by occupants of various classes of residential and
nonresidential properties differ significantly in their occupants’ respective uses of
public-safety services. Therefore, the City has calculated the tax to take into
account the relative use of public-safety services by the occupants of the uses of
developed property. For example, the tax on multiple family unit parcels is
approximately 69% of the tax on single-family residential parcels of a similar size
because multiple family units in the City tend to have fewer values at risk and
lower occupant densities than single-family units. The City therefore finds it is
appropriate to tax multiple family unit parcels at approximately 69% of the tax on
a single family parcel, reflecting the lower values at risk and lower occupant
densities of multiple family units.

I.	The City has determined that the size of a parcel has a direct relationship to the
usage of public safety services. A larger parcel, whether residential, commercial,
industrial or mixed-use, is likely to have larger structures, more occupants and
more visitors located on it (referred to as “values at risk”), thus generating more
use of public safety services. The annual Tax on single-family residences,
commercial and industrial, and mixed-use parcels is therefore tied to the size of
the parcel.

J.	A parcel of non-residentially developed real property often has more than one
business located on it, and such businesses may contain large quantities of
materials and products that may be flammable, hazardous, and quite valuable in
the aggregate. If customers and employees are accounted for, more people
generally occupy a commercial or industrial parcel than a typical residential
parcel. Moreover, non-residential parcels generally create public safety responses
that significantly exceed the scope and extent of the typical public safety

responses attributable to residential parcels. The City has determined that, as a
result, the use of public safety services attributable to the smallest size category of
non-residential parcels is approximately twice that of a typical single-family
residential parcel. The City further determines that the use of public safety
services increases proportionately with the size of non-residential parcels. Thus,
the annual tax on non-residential parcels will vary from approximately 2.7 times
that of residential parcels to approximately 78 times that of typical residential
parcels, for the largest commercial and industrial parcel size category.

K.	The City has determined that the tax structure, as reflected in the “Tax Rate
Schedule” set forth below, reflects the relative occupancies and values at risk
associated with each parcel size category and the differing uses of public safety
services by residents of each parcel size category.

L.	The “Tax Rate Schedule” as set forth below is intended to be proportional to and
based on estimates of typical use of and benefit from public-safety services by
occupants of different residential parcels and of nonresidential parcels of different
types. The rates are not tailored to individual use both because such tailoring is
not administratively feasible and because the City must make public-safety
services available to all parcels and owners and occupants of parcels equally.

M.	The “Tax Rate Schedule”, as set forth below, represents the cost in today’s dollars
of the privilege of using and use of real property which generates the need for
public-safety services. However, the cost of the privilege of using and the use of
real property which generates the need for public-safety services will vary based
on market conditions and inflation rates. To capture the changes in the cost of
providing the public safety services to occupants of residential and nonresidential
parcels the “Tax Rate Schedule” schedule will be adjusted annually in accordance
with the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”), but will not exceed 2% and in no event
will result in a “Tax Rate Schedule” for any fiscal year which is less than the
amount established for the preceding fiscal year.

N.	The Tax is an excise tax based on the privilege of using and the use of real
property, which generates the need for public-safety services. It is not a tax on
real property, nor is it any other kind of tax on property or the ownership of
property. Therefore, undeveloped properties are not subject to the tax, since such
properties create very little need for public safety services. Similarly, because
unoccupied, vacant properties create significantly decreased need for public
services, properties that are unoccupied for a period of six months or more are
entitled to a refund of 5% of the annual tax for each month the property is
unoccupied. It is not a transaction or sales tax on the sale of real property.
Finally, because the tax proceeds are deposited in a special fund and the fund is
restricted for the provision of public-safety services, the tax is a special tax.

Section 2:	Section	3.20.010	Amended.	Section 3.20.010, “Definitions,” of Title 3,

Chapter 3.20 (Ordinance No. 622-04) of the Municipal Code is hereby amended to read

as follows (with text in strikeout indicating deletion and bold italics text indicating
addition):

"Consumer Price Index" or “CPI” means the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose as published by the
US. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. If the Consumer Price Index is
discontinued or revised, such other government index or computation with which it is
replaced shall be used in order to obtain substantially the same result as would be
obtained if the Consumer Price Index had not been discontinued or revised.

“Public-safety—sendees’’—means—(a) obtaining,—furnishing,—operating,—and
maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of
police protection personnel, and such other police protection services expenses as are
deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of the residents of the City; and (b)
obtaining,—furnishing,—operating,—and maintaining—fire protection equipment and
apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of fire protection personnel, and such other
fire protection service expenses as are deemed necessary by the City Council for the
benefit of the residents of the safety.

“Public safety services” means (a) obtaining, furnishing, operating, and
maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits
of police protection personnel, and such other police protection services expenses as
are deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of the residents of the City; (b)
obtaining, furnishing, operating, and maintaining fire protection equipment or
apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of fire protection personnel, and such other
fire protection services expenses as are deemed necessary by the City Council for the
benefit of the residents of the City; and (c) paying the personnel salaries and benefits
of youth violence prevention and intervention services, and contract costs for youth
violence prevention and intervention services, including but not limited to crime data
analysis, violence prevention strategy coordination, community outreach programs,
intervention counseling services, and obtaining, furnishing, operating, and
maintaining youth violence prevention and intervention services property, equipment
or apparatus.

Section 3:	Section	3.20.020	Amended.	Section 3.20.020, “Amount of Tax,” of Title

3,	Chapter 3.20 (Ordinance No. 622-04) of the Municipal Code is hereby amended to
read as follows (with text in strikeout indicating deletion and bold italics text indicating
addition):

“The tax on each parcel of real property in the City shall depend on the use to
which the occupant or owner has put the property and the size of the parcel. The tax per
year on each parcel in the City shall not exceed the amount applicable to the parcel, as
specified below.

No later than July 15 of each year, City Manager shall determine the amount of

taxes to be levied upon the parcels in the City for the then-current fiscal year as set forth
below.

Tax Rate Schedule

Parcel type	Parcel size (square feet)	Maximium amount of tax	Current amount of tax (FY 2008- 09)	Maximum Amount of tax (FY 2009-10)
Single-family residential parcel	0-4,999	$82	$94.99	$ 112.30
	5,000-9,999	$92	$106.29	$ 125.65
	10,000-  14,999	$|Q6	$123.26	$145.71
	15,GOO- 19,999	mt	$140.23	$165.77
	20,000+	$13g	$159.44	$ 188.48
Multi-family residential parcel (tax imposed on per-dwelling-unit basis)	N/A	$53	(per  dwelling unit)	$65.59 (per dwelling unit)	$77.53 (per dwelling unit)
Non-residential parcel	0-9,999	$2QQ	$226.16	$ 267.36
	10,GOO- 24,999	CM AA  ® TW	$452.33	$534.72
	25,GOO- 49,999	$8qq	$904.65	$1,069.43
	50,GOO- 99,999	$4400	$1809.31	$2,138.86
	100,GOO- 249,999	$3300	$3618.62	$4,277.72
	250,000+	CA/IQQ  lyv 1 \J\J	$7237.23	$8,555.45

The foregoing tax rate schedule shall apply for the 2003/2004 fiscal year
commencing July 1, 2003 and ending June 30, 2001.—For each fiscal year thereafter
commencing with the 2004/2005 fiscal year, the foregoing tax rate schedule shall be
adjusted as follows:

By an amount equal to the percentage increase or decrease in the-Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers (All Items) (Base Year 1994 - 100) for San Francisco
Oakland, California, as published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of
Labor- Statistics, for the period from December 2002 to the December of the fiscal year
immediately prior to the year in which the percentage adjustment will apply, multiplied
by the specific tax rate in the foregoing tax rate schedule. For purposes of example only,
if-the tax rate for a single-family residential parcel of 1000 square feet is $82, and if the
Consumer Price Index for December 2002 is 100 and for December 2004 is 106, the
increase of 6 is a 6% increase, meaning an additional tax of $<1.92 for the 2005/2006
fiscal year or a total tax of $86.92 for such fiscal yearr

The foregoing tax rate schedule shall apply for the 2009/2010 fiscal year
commencing July 1, 2009 and ending June 30, 2010. In order to keep the tax on each
parcel in constant first year dollars for each fiscal year subsequent to 2009/2010, the
tax per year shall be adjusted as set forth below to reflect any increase in the Consumer

Price Index beyond the first fiscal year the tax is levied. The tax per year on each
parcel for each fiscal year subsequent to the first fiscal year shall be an amount
determined as follows:

Provided, however, that in no event shall the tax per parcel for any fiscal year
be less than the amount establishedfor the preceding fiscal year.

If an undeveloped parcel becomes developed, the applicable tax for that fiscal
year shall be one-twelfth the tax applicable to the property, based on its parcel type once
developed, multiplied by the number of months, or part thereof, that is developed.

The tax on mixed-use property shall be based on the proportion that each type of
development represents as part of the whole development. The exact calculation shall be
defined more specifically in administrative guidelines adopted pursuant to this ordinance.

A low income exemption is hereby established for the duration of this tax. The
low income exemption shall apply to property owners with incomes at or below the
Annual Very Low Income (50% of median income) limits for Federal Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) Programs, provided that written proof of income is
provided annually to the City on such a form as may be required by the Administrative
Services Director.

The taxes levied on each parcel pursuant to this section shall be a charge upon the
parcel and shall be due and collectible as set forth in Section 3.20.060, below. “

Section 4:	Eight	Year	Sunset.	If	this	ordinance becomes effective, it shall remain

in effect for eight (8) years from its effective date, and the Tax Rate Schedule provided in
Section 3 above shall apply in the 2009/2010 Fiscal Year. If this ordinance does not
become effective, then Ordinance No. 622-04 shall continue in effect for the term
provided in Section 7 thereof.

Section 5:	Severability.	If	any	provision,	sentence,	clause,	section	or	part of this

ordinance is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such finding shall affect only
such provision, sentence, clause, section or part, and shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining parts of the ordinance.

Section 6:	Authority	for Ordinance. This ordinance is enacted pursuant to the

authority of Government Code Section 50077 and Article XIIID, Section 3(a) of the
California Constitution.

Tax Per Parcel

For then Current

Fiscal Year	=

Tax Per Parcel Change in Consumer Price
For Preceding	Index from April of current

Fiscal Year	Fiscal Year to April of

X immediately

Preceding Fiscal Year
OR 1.02, whichever is less

Section 7:	Challenge to Tax.	Any action to challenge the tax imposed by this

ordinance shall be brought pursuant to Government Code Section 50077.5 and Code of
Civil Procedure Section 860 et seq..

Section 8:	Effective Date.	If this ordinance is approved by two-thirds of the

voters voting on the issue at the November 4, 2008 election, pursuant to Elections Code
Section 9217, the ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the Council
certifies the results of the election, to-wit: December 19,2008.

Section 9:	Publication. If this ordinance is approved by two-thirds of the voters

voting on the issue at the November 4, 2008 election, a copy of this ordinance shall be
published in a local newspaper of general circulation within the City, in accordance with
the requirements of California Government Code Section 36933.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of Union City on
November 4, 2008:

Measure UU Yes 15,700 No 5,734 (Passed)

ADOPTED by Declaration of the vote by the City Council of the City of Union
City on December 9, 2008.

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Councilmembers Dutra-Vemaci, Navarro and Valle, Vice Mayor
Fernandez, Mayor Green
None
None
None

ATTEST:

RENEE ELLIOTT, City Clerk
Dated:	/J-/&	O	?\

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

k Zk . - ,,,

/ MICHAEL S. RIBACK, Ctfy At*6mey