CITY OF UNION CITY PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES TAX MEASURE UU	
1 1 1 1 MEASURE UU: “sha11 the 1 1 1 1 existing Public Safety Ser-  vices Tax set to expire on April 23, 2009, be continued and expand- ed, for an additional eight (8) years, beginni 2009, in order to fund essential police and tion services in Union City as well as yoi prevention and intervention programs?”	YES
	NO
	ng April 24, fire protec- rth violence

the 2004-approved public-safety tax will expire in April of
2009, resulting in the loss of approximately $2.7 million
annually to the police and fire department budgets.
s/MICHAEL S. RIBACK
City Attorney of Union City

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE UU

The City Council of the City of Union City (“City”)
has placed Measure UU on the ballot to ask voters to
approve an extension and enhancement of the special tax
for “public-safety services” previously approved by the
voters in 2004. This tax constitutes a special tax pursuant
to the California Constitution (Proposition 218), which
requires approval by two-thirds of those voting to pass.

The City operates both police and fire departments that
serve the City. Both departments employ a significant
number of full-time employees. The City provides equip-
ment and stations for both departments. The City also
operates other departments that run programs that con-
tribute to the maintenance of public safety in the commu-
nity. The proceeds from the Measure will be used to pur-
chase, operate and maintain equipment for public-safety
services, to pay salaries of police and fire personnel, and to
provide funding for other public-safety services expenses.
The Measure also has been enhanced to provide $500,000
annually for youth violence prevention and intervention
programs and services.

The Measure will “sunset” after eight (8) years and
cannot be renewed without a future vote. It will be
imposed on the occupants of residential and non-residen-
tial property within the City based on estimated usage of
public-safety services. The amount of the tax will be based
on the use of the property and parcel size, as set forth in
Measure UU, and will result in the typical residential
property owner paving approximately $20 per year more
than under the 2004-approved public-safety services tax.
The Measure will be adjusted annually in accordance with
the Consumer Price Index and any annual adjustment
would be capped at two percent (2%).

As with the 2004-approved public-safety services tax,
the Measure will not be imposed on unimproved parcels,
and a partial refund will be available for unoccupied
improved non-residential parcels. The City will be autho-
rized to contract with Alameda County to collect the tax
on the property tax rolls. As the City Council did with the
2004-approved public-safety services tax, if the Measure
is enacted, a low income exemption from the tax will
apply for the duration of the tax.

If this measure does not receive at least two-thirds
(2/3) approval of those voting, the measure will fail and

UCCM-1

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed
laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE UU

In 2004 Union City voters approved a public safety
parcel tax. Our police department was able to retain 12
police officers and all four fire stations remained open.
However, the measure expires in early 2009 and we must
renew funding for public safety with a YES vote on Mea-
sure UU on the November 4th, 2008 ballot. Your YES vote
on Measure UU is needed to maintain our response time
for crimes, fires and emergency medical calls. Our police
and fire departments have an excellent record of serving
our community even though the ratio of officers and fire-
fighters to our population is low compared to other cities
in Alameda County.

The existing parcel tax produces $2.7 million per year
for police and fire services. Measure UU will help fight
escalating youth and gang violence by adding $500,000
devoted to intervention counseling services, a family
resource center and violence prevention programs. The
existing parcel tax for the average homeowner is $95-106
per year. The new tax will add $20 per year for the average
homeowner and will expire in 8 years unless renewed by
Union City voters.

Union City has received international awards for finan-
cial reporting and budget operations for 18 consecutive
years. We carefully utilize our limited resources. A great
feature of Measure UU is that revenue generated in Union
City stays in Union City. The money does not go to the
state or county. We direct the funds to our public safety
departments.

Active involvement in public safety is the duty of
everyone in Union City. The police and fire departments of
Union City deserve your continued support. A YES vote
on Measure UU is the right decision for you, your neigh-
borhood and the city. Union City is a great place to live
and your YES vote on Measure UU improves our public
safety.

s/Mark Green
Mayor
s/Manuel C. Fernandez
Vice Mayor
s/Jim Navarro
Councilmember
s/Richard Valle
Councilmember
s/Carol Dutra-Vernaci
Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE UU WAS
SUBMITTED.

UCCM-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE UU

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
UNION CITY AMENDING TITLE 3, CHAPTER 3.20
(ORDINANCE NO. 622-04) OF THE CITY OF UNION
CITY MUNICIPAL CODE CONCERNING THE
EXISTING PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES EXCISE TAX
The People of the City of Union City do hereby ordain as
follows:

Section 1. Findings.

A.	In March 2004, the People of the City of Union City
(“City”) adopted Measure K (Ordinance No. 622-04) to
provide funding for one of the primary roles of City gov-
ernment; police- and fire-protection services (public-safe-
ty services). Measure K added Title 3, Chapter 3.20 to the
City’s Municipal Code and imposed a Public Safety Ser-
vices Excise Tax (“Tax”) on occupants of residential and
nonresidential real property throughout the City.

B.	Approval of Measure K was recognition by the City’s
property owners and voters of the significant public safety
challenges facing Union City. In particular, youth-related
violence was and remains a serious problem. Without the
additional funding provided by Measure K, the City would
lack sufficient resources to fund the public safety programs
that target gang activity and other violent crime. The City
determines that the extension and enhancement of a special
tax on occupants of residential and nonresidential real
property throughout the City, as more fully described and
set forth below, is necessary to maintain public good, wel-
fare and safety for a period of Eight (8) years.

C.	Measure K will automatically expire in April, 2009
unless extended. The City has determined that the cost to
continue to provide essential public-safety services at
current levels and to provide the expanded public safety
services mentioned above exceeds the amount of funds
and revenues generated from all other sources of income
available for such purpose, including the revenue from
Measure K. If Measure K is allowed to expire, the loss of
revenue will significantly impact the City’s ability to pro-
vide essential public-safety services, as well as any of the
expanded public-safety services mentioned above.

D.	The City also determined that the cost of providing
public-safety services has increased since Measure K was
adopted and it is more costly to provide the essential pub-
lic-safety services.

E.	Additionally, members of the public, at community
and other meetings of the City Council, have expressed a
strong desire that the City maintain its current level of
essential public-safety services, and also expand its youth
violence prevention and intervention programs. Maintain-
ing current levels of service and providing the additional
programs that the public seeks requires both the extension
and expansion of Measure K, or severe reductions in other
essential public services.

F.	It is the purpose and intent of this Ordinance to autho-
rize the adjustment of the City’s Tax from the current rates
for each parcel type, as set forth in Section 3.20.030 (“Tax
Rate Schedule”), to new rates as set forth below. The Tax

is a parcel tax and a special tax. The imposition of a new
“Tax Rate Schedule” is necessary to continue to provide
essential public safety services to occupants of residential
and nonresidential real property throughout the City for a
period of Eight (8) years. The imposition of a new “Tax
Rate Schedule” will also provide funding for youth vio-
lence prevention and intervention programs.

G.	The City has determined that the definition of “Public
safety services”, as set forth in Chapter 3.20.010 (“Defini-
tions”), does not capture all the types of public safety ser-
vices provided to the people of the City using revenue
generated from the Tax and therefore the definition of
“Public safety services” should be amended.

H.	The City recognizes that occupants of both residential
and nonresidential property use public-safety services.
However, the City has determined that the use of public-
safety services by occupants of various classes of residen-
tial and nonresidential properties differ significantly in
their occupants’ respective uses of public-safety services.
Therefore, the City has calculated the tax to take into
account the relative use of public-safety services by the
occupants of the uses of developed property. For example,
the tax on multiple family unit parcels is approximately
69% of the tax on single-family residential parcels of a
similar size because multiple family units in the City tend
to have fewer values at risk and lower occupant densities
than single-family units. The City therefore finds it is
appropriate to tax multiple family unit parcels at approxi-
mately 69% of the tax on a single family parcel, reflecting
the lower values at risk and lower occupant densities of
multiple family units.

I.	The City has determined that the size of a parcel has a
direct relationship to the usage of public safety services. A
larger parcel, whether residential, commercial, industrial
or mixed-use, is likely to have larger structures, more
occupants and more visitors located on it (referred to as
“values at risk”), thus generating more use of public safety
services. The annual Tax on single-family residences,
commercial and industrial, and mixed-use parcels is there-
fore tied to the size of the parcel.

J.	A parcel of non-residentially developed real property
often has more than one business located on it, and such
businesses may contain large quantities of materials and
products that may be flammable, hazardous, and quite
valuable in the aggregate. If customers and employees are
accounted for, more people generally occupy a commer-
cial or industrial parcel than a typical residential parcel.
Moreover, non-residential parcels generally create public
safety responses that significantly exceed the scope and
extent of the typical public safety responses attributable to
residential parcels. The City has determined that, as a
result, the use of public safety services attributable to the
smallest size category of non-residential parcels is approx-
imately twice that of a typical single-family residential
parcel. The City further determines that the use of public
safety services increases proportionately with the size of
non-residential parcels. Thus, the annual tax on non-resi-
dential parcels will vary from approximately 2.7 times that
of residential parcels to approximately 78 times that of