SAMPLE BALLOT/BALOTA EJEMPLAR

4-C1T

MEASURE® SUB! ' 'Hi E--■ (Sj 0 DAS " ,f‘ A! '

STATE•ESTADO

. _	VETERANS' BOND ACT OF 2008. This act provides for a bond issue	of nine hundred million dollars ($900,000,000) to provide farm and home aid for California

“l 2	veterans. Fiscal Impact: Costs of about $1.8 billion to pay off both the	principal ($900 million) and interest ($856 million) on the bonds; costs paid by participating

veterans. Average payment for principal and interest of about $59 million per year for 30 years.

LEY DE BONOS DE VETERANOS DE 2008. Esta ley dispone una emision de bonos de novecientos miliones de dolares ($900,000,000) para proporcionar asistencia a
los veteranos de California para granjas y viviendas. Impacto fiscal: Costos de unos $1.8 mil miliones para saldar el capital ($900 miliones) y los intereses ($856 miliones)
de los bonos; costos pagados por los veteranos participantes. Pago promedio del capital e intereses de aproximadamente $59 miliones anuales por 30 anos.

...f"' ■	' CITY/CIUDAD

C •• OF OATHEDBAL CITY Cl >! t CATHEDRA Iff

.	THE CATHEDRAL CITY VITAL CITY SERVICES MEASURE. To	protect/preserve essential Cathedral City services including: police officers, firefighters,

L	paramedics: 911 response times: crime, gang and drug prevention	programs: fixing potholes and streets: improving graffiti removal, street sweeping, code

enforcement, street medians and open space; funding youth and senior services; and preserving other general City services, shall Cathedral City establish a
three percent utility users' tax, exempting low-income seniors, requiring citizens' finance advisory committee review and annual financial audits?

LA MEDIDA DE SERVICIOS VITALES MUNICIPALES DE LA CIUDAD DE CATEDRAL CITY. A fin de proteger/preservar servicios esenciales de Cathedral City
induyendo: agentes de policfa, bomberos, paramedicos; tiempos de respuesta de 911: programas de prevention de delincuencia, pandillas y drogas: arreglar baches y
calles; mejorar la limpieza de grafiii, barrer calles, ejecucion y sancion del codigo, fajas medianeras de calles y espacios abiertos; financiar los servicios para jdvenes y
personas mayores: y preservar otros servicios generates de ia Ciudad, ideberia Cathedral City establecer un impuesto al consumidor de servicios pubiicos de tres por
ciento. exceptuando a personas mayores de bajos recursos, requiriendo revision del comite consultivo ciudadano de finanzas y auditorias financieras anuales?

RV 175-010

SAMPLE BALLOT/BALOTA EJEMPLAR

y ..

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “L”

If approved by more than fifty percent (50%) of the voters voting in the
election, Measure “L” would authorize the City of Cathedral City to
impose a utility users’ tax at the rate of three percent (3%) on
telecommunication services (including telephone service), video
services (including cable television), electricity, gas and solid waste
removal.

In general, utility companies would collect the tax from consumers as part

of their regular utility bills and would remit the paid taxes to the City.

Low-income seniors would be exempt from the tax, provided they are 65
years and older and are enrolled in Southern California Edison's
California Alternate Rates for Energy (CARE) program. For the period
June 1, 2008, to May 31, 2009, a household of one to two people

qualifies for the CARE program if they have a combined income no
higher than $30,500. The income threshold for the CARE program
increases with the number of people in the household, to a high of
$58,000 for a household of six people.

The utility users’ tax is a general tax that is intended to alleviate the City's
ongoing general operating budget deficit. Revenue generated by the tax
would go into the City’s General Fund. The City Council spends General
Fund .monies according to its adopted budget for the support of the
essential public services, including: police, fire and paramedic services;
the development and operation of crime, gang and drug prevention
programs; emergency response improvement programs; street repairs
and maintenance; street sweeping; street medium maintenance; graffiti
removal; code enforcement; and youth and senior programs. The tax
includes a requirement for an annual financial audit performed by a
qualified, independent third party. The results of these audits would be
available to the public.

A “Yes” vote on Measure “L” means the voter is in favor of authorizing the
City to collect a utility users’ tax. A "No” vote on Measure “L” means the
voter is not in favor of the City collecting a utility users' tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure 1”. If you desire
a copy of the utility tax ordinance that implements the utility users’ tax and
provides a more detailed description of the utilities to be taxed and the
manner in which the tax is to be calculated and collected, please contact
the City Clerk’s Office at (760) 770-0385 and a copy will be mailed to you
at no charge. Free copies of the utility tax ordinance are available at the
City Clerk’s Office at 68-700 Avenida Lalo Guerrero, Cathedral City,
California 92234.

IS!

Charles RjGreen

City Attorney
City of Cathedral City

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “L”

Maintain Cathedral City’s essential city and public safety services —
Vote YES on “I”.

Cathedral City’s population has grown by 20% since 2000- to more than

50,000. Demands for services have increased, including a 33% increase
in 9-1-1 emergency calls.

With a multi-billion dollar State budget deficit and an economic
slowdown, Cathedral City is running out of money to meet the needs of a
growing population. Unless we pass Measure “L”, deep cuts will be
necessary.

YES on “L” maintains the City's ability to respond quickly and effectively
to a natural disaster like an earthquake or flash flood.

YES on “L” maintains 911 emergency response times, retains
emergency dispatch operators, paramedics, police and firefighters, and
purchases communications equipment such as radios and computers.

YES on “L” maintains funding for police traffic safety, and youth
anti-gang and anti-drug programs.

The average 9-1-1 response time in Cathedral City is almost 7 minutes -
the slowest in Coachella Valley. YES on “t” prevents our City from
having to make cuts to 9-1-1 emergency response services that could
risk lives.

YES on “L” ensures local control. By law, all funds raised will stay in
Cathedral City, providing a guaranteed source of revenue that can't be
taken by Sacramento. Citizens Finance Committee review and annual
financial audits are legally required to ensure that funds are spent
efficiently, effectively and as promised. Low-income seniors are exempt
from “L".

Cathedral City is rated one of the safest in Riverside County - we must
keep it that way. By keeping our City safe and maintaining our services,

Yes on “L" protects our property values and the local economy.

Join Police Officers, Firefighters, Paramedics and residents from ail
walks of life - Vote YES on “L”.

By; Margarita Garcia, Dream Home Resident

Myron S. Karasik, CPA (Chair of Finance Advisory Committee)

Dennis Keat, Business Owner

Gershwin (Butch) Haitman
Bradley J. Hammer

NO ARGUMENT FILED AGAINST MEASURE “L”

33-9812-MI 5

RV 175-023