ORDINANCE NO. 2008-6

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LAKEWOOD ADDING
CHAPTER 9, PART 2 TO ARTICLE II OF THE LAKEWOOD CITY
CODE WITH RESPECT TO A COMMUNICATION USERS’ TAX.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LAKEWOOD DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: The title of existing Chapter 9 of Article II of the Lakewood Municipal
Code is hereby amended to read as follows: “Chapter 9, Part 1 (Sections 2901-2916)”.

SECTION 2: The following new “Part 2” is hereby added to Chapter 9 of Article II of
the Lakewood Municipal Code:

“CHAPTER 9, PART 2
COMMUNICATION USERS’ TAX

2920.	SHORT TITLE. Part 2 of this Chapter shall be known as the "Communication Users’
Tax Law" of the City.

2921.	ADOPTION; CHARTER AUTHORITY. Part 2 of this Chapter is adopted pursuant to
the powers of the City of Lakewood as authorized by Section 6 of Article XI of the Constitution
of the State of California.

2922.	DEFINITIONS. The following words and phrases whenever used in Part 2 of this
Chapter shall be construed as defined in this section:

A.	ANCILLARY TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. "Ancillary tele-
communication services” means services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services, including but not limited to the
following services:

1.	CONFERENCE BRIDGING SERVICE. “Conference bridging service” means an
ancillary service that links two or more participants of an audio or video conference call
and may include the provision of a telephone number. Conference bridging service does
not include the telecommunications services used to reach the conference bridge.

2.	DETAILED TELECOMMUNICATIONS BILLING SERVICE. “Detailed
telecommunications billing service” means an ancillary service of separately stating
information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing statement.

3.	DIRECTORY ASSISTANCE. “Directory assistance” means an ancillary service
of providing telephone number information, and/or address information.

4.	VERTICAL SERVICE. ''’‘Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is
offered in connection with one or more telecommunications services, which offers
advanced calling features that allow customers to identify callers and to manage multiple
calls and call connections, including conference bridging services.

5.	VOICE MAIL SERVICE. “Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that
enables the customer to store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service
does not include any vertical services that the customer may be required to have in order
to utilize the voice mail service.

B.	BILLING ADDRESS. “Billing Address” shall mean the mailing address of the service
user where the service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

Ordinance No. 2008-6
Page 2

C.	CITY. “City” shall mean the City of Lakewood.

D.	CITY MANAGER. “City Manager” shall mean the City Manager or his or her
designee.

E. COMMUNICATION SERVICES.	“Communication	Services” means:

“telecommunication services” and “ancillary telecommunication services”.

F.	MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. “Mobile Telecommunications
Service” has the meaning and usage as set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing
Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations thereunder.

G.	MONTH. “Month” shall mean a calendar month.

H.	PAGING. “Paging service ” means a “telecommunications service” that provides
transmission of coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers; such
transmissions may include messages and/or sounds.

I.	PERSON. "Person" shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust,
common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock
company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic,
and non-profit), municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the City) cooperative,
receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.

J.	PLACE OF PRIMARY USE. “Place of Primary Use” means the street address
representative of where the customer's use of the communications service primarily occurs,
which must be the residential street address or the primary business street address of the
customer.

K.	POST-PAID TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. "Post-paid telecommunication
service" means the telecommunication service obtained by making a payment on a
communication-by-communication basis either through the use of a credit card or payment
mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or by charge made to a
service number which is not associated with the origination or termination of the
telecommunication service.

L. PREPAID TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. "Prepaid telecommunication
service" means the right to access telecommunication services, which must be paid for in
advance and which enables the origination of communications using an access number or
authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed, and that is sold in
predetermined units or dollars of which the number declines with use in a known amount.

M. PRIVATE TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. "Private telecommunication
service" means a telecommunication service that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority
use of a communications channel or group of channels between or among termination points,
regardless of the manner in which such channel or channels are connected, and includes
switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other associated services that are
provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A communications channel
is a physical or virtual path of communications over which signals are transmitted between or
among customer channel termination points (i.e., the location where the customer either
inputs or receives the communications).

Ordinance No. 2008-6
Page 3

N.	SERVICE ADDRESS. "Service Address" means either:

1.	The location of the service user’s communication equipment from which the
communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the communication is billed
or paid; or,

2.	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (e.gmobile
telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address means the location of
the service user's place of primary use.

3.	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” means the location
associated with the service number.

O.	SERVICE SUPPLIER. ",Service Supplier" shall mean any entity or person, including
the City, that provides communication service to a user of such service within the City.

P.	SERVICE USER "Service User" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed
under the provisions of Part 2 of this Chapter.

Q.	STATE. “State" shall mean the State of California.

R STEAMLINED SALES AND USE TAX AGREEMENT. “Streamlined Sales and Use
Tax Agreement ” means the multi-state agreement commonly known and referred to as the
Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, and as it is amended from time to time.

S.	TAX ADMINISTRATOR "Tax Administrator" means the Director of Administrative
Services of the City or his or her designee.

T.	TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. “Telecommunications services” means the
transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or
signals to a point, or between or among points, whatever the technology used. The term
“telecommunications services” includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which
computer processing applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content
for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such services
are referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal
Telecommunications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data
services that is functionally integrated with “telecommunication services”.
“Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to the following services,
regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed: ancillary
telecommunication services; mobile telecommunications service; prepaid telecommunication
service; post-paid telecommunication service; private telecommunication service; paging
service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal
Telecommunications Commission); 900 service (or any other similar numbers designated by
the Federal Telecomm unications Commission for services whereby subscribers who call in to
pre-recorded or live service).

U.	VOIP. VoIP (voice over internet protocol) means the digital process of making and
receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

V.	800 SERVICE. “800 service” means a “telecommunications service” that allows a
caller to dial a toll-free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is
typically marketed under the name “800”, “855”, “866”, “877”, and “888” toll-free calling,
and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

W.	900 SERVICE. “900 service ” means an inbound toll “telecommunications service”
purchased by a subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s
prerecorded announcement or live service. “900 service” does not include the charge for:

collection services provided by the seller of the “telecommunications services” to the
subscriber, or service or product sold by the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The
service is typically marketed under the name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

2923.	CONSTITUTIONAL. STATUTORY AND OTHER EXEMPTIONS.

A.	Nothing in Part 2 of this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person or
service when the imposition of such tax upon such person or service would be in violation of
a federal or state statute, the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State.

B.	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by Part 2 of this Chapter pursuant
to subsection A. of this section shall file an application with the Tax Administrator for an
exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a
state or federal agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized name for such service.
Said application shall be made upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator and shall
state those facts, declared under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an
exemption, and shall include the names of all communication service suppliers serving that
service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service user shall give the
Tax Administrator timely written notice of any change in communication service suppliers so
that the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new communication service supplier of
the service user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this section shall
not be entitled to a refund of communication users’ taxes collected and remitted to the Tax
Administrator from such service user as a result of such noncompliance.

The decision of the Tax Administrator regarding an application may be appealed pursuant to
Section 2935 of Part 2 of this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and
appeal to the City Manager pursuant to Section 2935 of Part 2 of this Chapter is a
prerequisite to a suit thereon.

C.	The City Council may, by resolution, establish one or more classes of persons or one or
more classes of utility service otherwise subject to payment of a tax imposed by Part 2 of this
Chapter and provide that such classes of persons or service shall be exempt, in whole or in
part from such tax for a specified period of time.

2924.	COMMUNICATION USERS’ TAX.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using communication
services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three percent (3%) of the
charges made for such services and shall be collected from the service user by the
communication services supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that
communication services, which are billed to a billing or service address in the City, are used,
in whole or in part, within the City's boundaries, and such services are subject to taxation
under Part 2 of this Chapter. If the billing address of the service user is different from the
service address, the service address of the service user shall be used for purposes of imposing
the tax. As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the communication services.

B.	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” shall be sourced in accordance with the sourcing
rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act {4 U.S.C. Section 124). The
Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication service suppliers, which are
subject to the tax collection requirements of Part 2 of this Chapter, sourcing rules for the

Ordinance No. 2008-6
Page 5

taxation of other communication services, including but not limited to post-paid
communication services, prepaid communication services, and private communication
services, provided that such rules are based upon custom and common practice that further
administrative efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation (e.gStreamline Sales
and Use Tax Agreement).

C.	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication service suppliers,
which are subject to the tax collection requirements of Part 2 of this Chapter, an
administrative ruling identifying those communication services, or charges therefor, that are
subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection A. above.

D.	As used in this section, the term “telecommunication services” shall include, but are not
limited to charges for: connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change of
telecommunication services; late payment fees; detailed billing; central office and custom
calling features(including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification
and three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging services; directory assistance; access
and line charges; universal service charges; regulatory, administrative and other cost
recovery charges; local number portability charges; and text and instant messaging.
“Telecommunication services” shall not include: i) digital downloads that are not “ancillary
telecommunication services”, such as books, music, ringtones, games, and similar digital
products.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of communication services subject to tax
under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the service user
has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such communication services,
shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax
legally imposed in such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not
exceed the tax owed to the City under this section.

F.	The tax on communication services imposed by this section shall be collected from the
service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

2925.	BUNDLING TAXABLE ITEMS WITH NON-TAXABLE ITEMS. If any nontaxable
charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable service charges on the
customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge is subject to tax unless the
service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of the combined
charge that are nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier's books and records kept in
the regular course of business, and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving
the proper apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges. If the service supplier offers a
combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges are separately stated, then for
taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall be based on its
books and records kept in the regular course of business and in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The service
supplier has the burden of proving the proper valuation of the taxable and non-taxable services.

2926.	SUBSTANTIAL NEXUS/MINIMUM CONTACTS. For purposes of imposing a tax
or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under Part 2 of this Chapter, “substantial nexus”
and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or

remittance of the communication users tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal
law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment.
Any communication service (including VoIP) used by a person with a service address in the
City, which service is capable of terminating a call to another person on the general telephone
network, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts”
exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under Part
2 of this Chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the City for
tax collection and remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any of the
following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of
business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees, independent contractors,
resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the City on a continuous, regular,
seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a
transmitter with the City or distributed from a location with the City; or advertises in newspapers
or other periodicals printed and published within the City or through materials distributed in the
City by means other than the United States mail; or if there are activities performed in the City
on behalf of the service supplier that are significantly associated with the service supplier's
ability to establish and maintain a market in the City for the provision of services that are subject
to a tax under this Chapter.

2927.	DUTY TO COLLECT—PROCEDURES.

A.	COLLECTION BY SERVICE SUPPLIERS. The duty of service suppliers to collect
and remit the taxes imposed by the provisions of Part 2 of this Chapter shall be performed as
follows:

1.	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at the same time
as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance with the regular
billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by a service user to a
service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge and tax which was accrued for
the billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to
have been paid. In those cases where a service user has notified the service supplier of
refusal to pay the tax imposed on said charges, Section 2931 shall apply.

2.	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall commence
with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the service user where
all charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of Part
2 of this Chapter. Where a service user receives more than one billing, one or more being
for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing
period.

B.	FILING RETURN AND PAYMENT. Each person required by Part 2 of this Chapter to
remit a tax shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax
Administrator, on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be
included with the return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is
authorized to require such additional information as he or she deems necessary to determine
if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with Part 2 of this Chapter.
Returns are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue
and Tax Code Section 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such
filing returns as confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the
Public Records Act.

2928.	COLLECTION PENALTIES - SERVICE SUPPLIERS.

A.	Taxes collected from a service user are delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal
holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator on the first regular working
day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic fund
transfers and other similar methods of electronically exchanging monies between financial
accounts, made by a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection
shall be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer
settles into the City’s account on the following business day.

B.	If the person required to collect and/or remit the communication users’ tax fails to collect
the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or charges on the
customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before the due date, the Tax
Administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of
fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and
shall pay interest at the rate of and 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon persons
required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of Part 2 of this Chapter for
fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the
amount of the tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax
Administrator.

D.	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is accrued
under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her discretion,
modify the due dates of Part 2 of this Chapter to be consistent with any uniform standards or
procedures that are mutually agreed upon by other public agencies imposing a utility users
tax, or otherwise legally established, to create a central payment location or mechanism.

2929.	ACTIONS TO COLLECT. Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the
provisions of Part 2 of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City.
Any such tax collected from a service user which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator
shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to collect and remit and shall no
longer be a debt of the service user. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of
Part 2 of this Chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery
of such amount, including penalties and interest as provided for in Part 2 of this Chapter, along
with any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the person’s noncompliance with Part
2 of this Chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees. Any tax required to be
collected by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an unsecured priority excise tax
obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8)(C).

2930.	DEFICIENCY DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT - TAX APPLICATION
ERRORS.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she determines that
any person required to pay or collect taxes pursuant to the provisions of Part 2 of this Chapter
has failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the proper amount of tax by improperly or failing to
apply the tax to one or more taxable services or charges. Nothing herein shall require that the
Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this Section 2930 if, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

B.	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the person
required to pay or remit the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes
owed, plus interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have been received
by the City. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of service of such notice, the
person may request in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the matter.

C.	If the person fails to request a hearing within the prescribed time period, the amount of
the deficiency determination shall become a final assessment, and shall immediately be due
and owing to the City. If the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the
matter to be set for hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt of
the written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed
by the Tax Administrator to such person at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing,
and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person to produce specific records at such hearing,
such notice may designate the records requested to be produced.

D.	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant testimony
and evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the discretion of the Tax
Administrator, the hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing
the presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the conclusion
of the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessment),
thereafter, by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and
shall mail a copy of such final assessment to person owing the tax. The decision of the Tax
Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 2935 of Part 2 of this Chapter. Filing an
application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City Manager pursuant to Section
2935 of Part 2 of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

E.	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of receipt of the notice
of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on the total
amount of the assessment, along with interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per
month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date
of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the City
seeking payment of a tax assessed under Part 2 of this Chapter shall commence from the date
of delinquency as provided in this subsection E.

F.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall be
deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a
proof of mailing.

2931.	ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY - NON-PAYING SERVICE USERS.

A.	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately withheld
the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a person required
to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City,
he or she may relieve such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under Part 2 of this
Chapter from certain named service users for specific billing periods. To the extent the service
user has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing periods,
the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes due. The service supplier
shall provide the City with the names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of
taxes owed under the provisions of Part 2 of this Chapter. Nothing herein shall require that the
Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this Section 24931 if, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

B.	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty at the rate of
fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay interest at the rate of
75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods
and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice shall be
served on the service user by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the United
States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was
made by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have a change of
address, to his or her last known address.

D.	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days
from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Administrator may impose
an additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the total tax that is owed.

2932.	ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to enforce
each and all of the provisions of Part 2 of this Chapter.

B.	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent with
provisions of Part 2 of this Chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out
and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of
such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office.
To the extent that the Tax Administrator determines that the tax imposed under this Chapter
shall not be collected in full for any period of time from any particular service supplier or
service user, that determination shall be considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator's
discretion to settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing methodology for
purposes of Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The Tax Administrator is not
authorized to amend the City's methodology for purposes of Government Code Section
53750 and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose the communication users’
tax in full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or entering into agreements.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make administrative
agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of Part 2 of this
Chapter and thereby: (1) conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so
long as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance with the general

Ordinance No. 2008-6
Page 10

purpose and scope of Part 2 of this Chapter; or, (2) to avoid a hardship where the
administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of
each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office, and are voidable by
the Tax Administrator or the City at any time.

D.	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with the
requirements of Part 2 of this Chapter, of any person required to collect and/or remit a tax
pursuant to Part 2 of this Chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said person of the
initiation of an audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the
audit period of review shall not exceed a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of
receipt of the written notice by said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of
the audit, the Tax Administrator may make a deficiency determination pursuant to Section
2930 of Part 2 of this Chapter for all taxes (and applicable penalties and interest) owed and
not paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If
said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax
Administrator to verify compliance with Part 2 of this Chapter, the Tax Administrator is
authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be
entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

E.	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax
Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to Part 2 of this
Chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the time for filing the
required statement has not already passed when the request is received. No penalty for
delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue during
said extension at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, prorated for any portion
thereof.

F.	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a right to
exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by Part 2 of this Chapter.

G.	Notwithstanding any provision in Part 2 of this Chapter to the contrary, the Tax
Administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required to collect
and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by Part 2 of this Chapter if the non-
collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether the non-collection was in good
faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into consideration industry practice or other
precedence.

2933.	RECORDS.

A.	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax
imposed by Part 2 of this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3)
years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he or she may
have been liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records
the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

B.	The City may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a person to deliver, to the Tax
Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the Tax Administrator to establish
compliance with Part 2 of this Chapter, including the delivery of records in a common
electronic format on readily available media if such records are kept electronically by the
person in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the
subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the due date provided in the
administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to such records outside the City on

or before the due date, provided that such person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable
travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect those records, including travel, lodging,
meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those
persons designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

C.	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement approved by
the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer information pursuant to

California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.

D.	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit
the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator the name, address and
telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the
service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the
Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the
possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/or
remittance of such tax to the City.

E.	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably denies the Tax
Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the information requested in an
administrative subpoena within the time specified, then the Tax Administrator may impose a
penalty of $500 on such person for each day following: i) the initial date that the person
refuses to provide such access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as set forth in the
administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed
under Part 2 of this Chapter.

2934.	REFUNDS. Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under Part 2
of this Chapter from a person or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this section:

A.	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under Part
2 of this Chapter from a person or service supplier, provided that no refund shall be paid
under the provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator,
executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one
year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must
clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by written records showing entitlement thereto.
Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers
unless each member of the class has submitted a written claim under penalty of perjury as
provided by this subsection.

B.	The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government Code Section 935 is a prerequisite
to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the provisions of Government Code Sections 945.6 and 946. The Tax
Administrator, or the City Council where the claim is in excess of five thousand dollars
($5,000), shall act upon the refund claim within the time period set forth in Government
Code Section 912.4. If the Tax Administrator/City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund
claim within the time prescribed by Government Section 912.4, the claim shall be deemed to
have been rejected by the City Council on the last day of the period within which the City
Council was required to act upon the claim as provided in Government Code Section 912.4.

Ordinance No. 2008-6
Page 12

The Tax Administrator shall give notice of the action in a form which substantially complies
with that set forth in Government Code Section 913.

C.	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (A) of this Section, the Tax
Administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to a service supplier, who
has collected and remitted any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed by Part 2
of this Chapter, to claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due
the City upon a subsequent monthly retum(s) to the Tax Administrator, provided that: i) such
credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from the date of overpayment or
erroneous collection of said tax; ii) the Tax Administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis
and amount of such credit has been reasonably established; and, iii) in the case of an
overpayment by a service user to the service supplier that has been remitted to the City, the
Tax Administrator has received proof, to his or her satisfaction, that the overpayment has been
refunded by the service supplier to the service user in an amount equal to the requested credit.

D.	Notwithstanding subsections (A) through (C) above, a service supplier shall be entitled to
take any overpayment as a credit against an underpayment whenever such overpayment has
been received by the City within the three (3) years next preceding a deficiency determination
or assessment by the Tax Administrator in connection with an audit instituted by the Tax
Administrator pursuant to Section 24-130(d). A service supplier shall not be entitled to said
credit unless it first clearly establishes, to the satisfaction of the Tax Administrator, the right to
the credit by written records showing entitlement thereto. Under no circumstances shall an
overpayment taken as a credit against an underpayment pursuant to this subsection qualify a
service supplier for a refund to which it would not otherwise be entitled under the one-year
written claim requirement of this section.

2935.	APPEALS.

A.	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating to a
refund pursuant to Section 2934 of Part 2 of this Chapter), deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any person aggrieved by any
decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 2934 of Part 2 of this
Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator, shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of this section.
Compliance with this section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government Code
Section 935(b)], Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action on behalf of a
class or group of taxpayers.

B.	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund
pursuant to Section 2934 of Part 2 of this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may appeal to the City Manager by
filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the
decision, deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator which aggrieved the service user or service supplier.

C.	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before an independent hearing officer selected
by the City Manager, no more than thirty (30) days from the receipt of the appeal. The
appellant shall be served with notice of the time and place of the hearing, as well as any
relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be
continued from time to time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing

party, the Tax Administrator, and any other interested person may present such relevant
evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination from which the appeal is taken.

D.	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s files, the
hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or reversing the
determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within fourteen (14)
days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The
notice shall specify that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be
filed within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1094.6.

E.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall be
deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a
proof of mailing.

2936.	NO INJUNCTION/WRIT OF MANDATE. No injunction or writ of mandate or other
legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this
City or against any officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under Part 2 of this
Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and/or remitted.

2937.	NOTICE OF CHANGES TO ORDINANCE. If a tax under Part 2 of this Chapter
is added repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is changed, the Tax Administrator shall
follow the notice requirements of California Public Utilities Code Section 799.

2938.	EFFECT OF STATE AND FEDERAL REFERENCE/AUTHORIZATION. Unless
specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this Chapter shall
mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that such reference to a
statute herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or to any subsequent change
of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of law with the duty to interpret
such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of interpretation would require voter
approval under California law, or to the extent that such change would result in a tax decrease (as
a result of excluding all or a part of a communication service, or charge therefor, from taxation).
Only to the extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would result, the
prior version of the statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any application or
situation that would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the
amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum possible extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this
Chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no amendment or
modification of this Chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax
shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of the
tax imposed under this Chapter.

2939.	INDEPENDENT AUDIT OF TAX COLLECTION. EXEMPTION. REMITTANCE.
AND EXPENDITURE. The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under Part 2 of this
Chapter have been properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with Part 2
of this Chapter, and properly expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual
verification shall be performed by a qualified independent third party and the review shall
employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance, including the use of sampling
audits. The verification shall not be required of tax remitters where the cost of the verification
may exceed the tax revenues to be reviewed.

2940.	INTERACTION WITH PRIOR TAX.

A.	SATISFACTION OF TAX OBLIGATION BY SERVICE USERS. Any person who
pays the tax levied pursuant to Section 2924 of Part 2 of this Chapter with respect to any
charge for a communication service shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to
pay the tax levied pursuant to Section 2904 of Part 1 of this Chapter with respect to that
charge. Likewise, prior to April 1, 2009, any person who pays the tax levied pursuant to
Section 2904 of Part 1 of this Chapter with respect to any charge for a telephone users
service shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant
to Section 2924 of Part 2 of this Chapter with respect to that charge. The intent of this
paragraph is to prevent the imposition of multiple taxes upon a single utility charge during
the transition period from the prior telephone users’ tax to the new communication users’ tax
(which transition period ends April 1, 2009) and to permit communications service providers,
during that transition period to satisfy their collection obligations by collecting either tax.

B.	COLLECTION OF TAX BY SERVICE PROVIDERS. Service providers shall begin
to collect the tax imposed by Part 2 of this Chapter as soon as feasible after the effective date
of Part 2 of this Chapter, but in no event later than permitted by Section 799 of the California
Public Utilities Code.

C.	JUDICIAL DETERMINATIONS. In the event that a final court order should determine
that the election enacting this Article II, Chapter 9, Part 2 is invalid for whatever reason, or
that any tax imposed under this Article II, Chapter 9, Part 2 is invalid in whole or in part,
then the tax imposed under Section 2904 of Part 1 of this Chapter (unless repealed) shall
automatically continue to apply with respect to any service for which the tax levied pursuant
to Section 2924 of Part 2 of this Chapter has been determined to be invalid. Such automatic
continuation shall be effective beginning as of the first date of service (or billing date) for
which the tax imposed by Section 2924 of Part 2 of this Chapter is not valid. However, in
the event of an invalidation, any tax (other than a tax that is ordered refunded by the court or
is otherwise refunded by the City) paid by a person with respect to a service and calculated
pursuant to Section 2924 of Part 2 of this Chapter shall be deemed to satisfy the tax imposed
under Section 2904 of Part 1 of this Chapter on that service, so long as the tax is paid with
respect to a service provided no later than six months subsequent to the date on which the
final court order is published.

2941.	REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by Part 2 of this Chapter or which are available under any
other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims Act
(Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act (Business and
Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by
the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
Part 2 of this Chapter.”

Ordinance No. 2008-6
Page 15

SECTION 3. AMENDMENT OR REPEAL. Part 2 of this Chapter of the Lakewood
City Code may be repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of the people.
However, as required by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required
for any amendment provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this
Ordinance. The People of the City of Lakewood affirm that the following actions shall not
constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

1.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this
Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

2.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some
prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this
Ordinance.

3.	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or excepted from the tax or the
discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the discontinuation of an
exemption or exception specifically set forth in this Ordinance); and

4.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the City had, for some
period of time, failed to collect the tax.

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full
force and effect. The people hereby declares that they would have adopted each section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be
declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 5. RATIFICATION OF PRIOR TAX. The voters of the City of Lakewood
hereby ratify and approve the past collection of the Telephone Users Tax under Chapter 9, Part 1
of the Lakewood Municipal Code as it existed prior to the effective date of this Ordinance.

SECTION 6. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be effective if approved by a
majority vote of the electorate voting on the issue, at the Special Election to be held on
November 4, 2008, within the City of Lakewood. If so approved, the City Clerk shall certify to
adoption of this Ordinance, which shall take effect immediately upon such certification.

CERTIFICATION

I,	Denise R. Hayward, do hereby declare that I am the duly appointed and acting City
Clerk of the City of Lakewood and that at a Special Municipal Election, duly called and held in
accordance with the terms and provisions of law, on Tuesday, November 4, 2008, this Ordinance
No. 2008-6, designated at said Special Municipal Election as Measure L was submitted to the
voters at said Election and approved by a majority of said voters. I hereby certify that said
Ordinance was adopted by the people of the City of Lakewood on November 4, 2008.

I	declare under penalty of peijury under the laws of the State of California that the
foregoing is true and correct.

DATED THIS 8TH DAY OF DECEMBER, 2008, AT LAKEWOOD, CALIFORNIA.