Measure F: Special Tax Measure, County Service Area P-6, Zone 3006

Shall Ordinance No. 2008-23, to provide additional funding for police protection services, be approved to authorize a special tax on property located in Zone 3006 of County Service Area P-6 in the unincorporated neighborhoods of East Richmond Heights and Bayo Vista (North Arlington area), at an initial annual amount of $108 per parcel for single-family, residential parcels, with higher amounts for properties in other use categories identified in the ordinance?

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
The Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors has adopted an ordinance to levy a special tax on property located in Zone 3006 of Contra Costa County Service Area P-6 for police protection services. This tax is a special tax pursuant to the California Constitution and requires approval by two-thirds of those voting to pass.
The authorizing ordinance requires that the proceeds of this special tax be used in Zone 3006 "solely for the purposes of obtaining, furnishing, operating, and maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, for paying the salaries and benefits of police protection personnel, and for such other police protection service expenses as are deemed necessary."
The special tax, if approved by the voters, will be levied on each parcel located within Zone 3006 of County Service Area P-6, in the East Richmond Heights and Bayo Vista-North Arlington areas. The amount of the tax will depend on how the property is used, based on each parcel's use classification. A parcel's use classification is assigned by the County Assessor. The special tax proposed by this measure will not be based upon the value of property.
The tax proposed by this measure would begin to be collected for the tax year beginning July 1, 2009. The tax does not have an expiration date. The authorizing ordinance designates the amounts of the special tax per parcel during the first fiscal year, which is July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010. For example, during the first fiscal year, the tax on each parcel that is classified as single family residential would be $108, and the tax on each parcel that is classified as apartments or commercial stores would be $432. All tax amounts are listed on the authorizing ordinance. For each subsequent fiscal year, the tax would remain the same in constant dollars, which means the Board of Supervisors will annually adjust the special tax amount for each parcel classification to reflect any increase in the Consumer Price Index.
Proceeds from the special tax may be used only for the purposes set forth in the authorizing ordinance and according to other constitutional and statutory provisions. These provisions also require specific accountability measures, including the creation of an account into which the tax proceeds are to be deposited and an annual written report prepared by the County's chief fiscal officer showing the amount of the special tax collected and expended. The tax would be collected at the same time as, and along with, general ad valorem property taxes.
At least two-thirds of those voting on this ballot measure must approve the measure in order for it to pass.

A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the special tax.

A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the special tax.

Arguments For Measure F
Jim Bickert, President A group of local residents have been working over the last three years to increase police protection services in the East Richmond Heights and North Arlington neighborhoods. The result of this plan is Measure F.
A "Yes" vote on Measure F will result in an additional full time Resident Deputy Sheriff for the East Richmond Heights and North Arlington communities. This new Deputy Sheriff will be devoted just to our community and will supplement, not replace, existing law enforcement services and provide a higher level of dedicated service to the community.
Single family homeowners would pay only $108 per year, which is less than 30 cents per day, for a dedicated Resident Deputy Sheriff who will understand and respond to the specific law enforcement needs of the East Richmond Heights and North Arlington neighborhoods. The money collected from Measure F can only be spent in the East Richmond and North Arlington communities.
With a dedicated new Resident Deputy Sheriff , the community will get:
	•	Increased law enforcement patrols
	•	Increased traffic enforcement
	•	Increased crime prevention and neighborhood watch activities
	•	Quicker response times to calls for police services
	•	More personalized response to citizen calls 
Increased law enforcement services will lower crime in our community, improve the safety and security of the neighborhood, and increase property values.
Crime does exist in our neighborhood and we need to provide enhanced police services for our families and children, and for our older residents. The new dedicated Resident Deputy Sheriff will be fully familiar with our streets and our neighborhood and will be more effective in preventing crime and catching criminals.
Please vote "Yes" on Measure F for a safer neighborhood and increased property values.
Jim Bickert, President 
Contra Costa Deputy Sheriffs Association
Cara Turchie, President 
East Richmond Heights/North Arlington Public Safety Committee
Rebecca Suzanne, Treasurer 
Wildcat Ridge Neighborhood Action Group
John Gioia 
Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors, District One
Ollie F. Warner 
North Arlington Neighborhood Crime Watch

(No argument against Measure F was submitted.)

Full Text of Measure F
