I't i'll il q

r^.

PAGE

7

* i

CITY

POMONA CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

_ _ Should a temporary two years and two months Utility Users Tax (UUT) Pf* rate increase be enacted in the City of Pomona in the amount of one * V/ percent (1.0%) for Citywide improvements and services from nine percent (9.0%) to ten percent (10%)?		158 yes«*o
		159 no-kd
DISTRICT  THREE VALLEYS MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT		
Member, Board of Directors, Division 6 Vote for One	JOHN MENDOZA 162**0	
	JOHN W, (FRED) LANTZ  T.V.M.W.D., Board Member	

END OF BALLOT

07-019E

N LA 701-009

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE PC —

Measure “PC” appears on the ballot as a result of a voter initiative process
whereby the initiative proponents gathered signatures from registered voters
within the City of Pomona and qualified the placement of this temporary tax
increase measure to be presented to all of Pomona’s voters.

The City of Pomona, like other cities in Los Angeles County, imposes a general
use tax on residential and commercial utility accounts (Utility Users Tax). The
existing Utility Users Tax generates revenues that are used to provide public
services, such as police and fire protection, parks and recreation, library, public
works, and other city programs and services.

If adopted, Measure “PC” will amend the provisions of the Pomona City Code to
temporarily increase the existing nine percent (9%) Utility Users Tax by one
percent (1%). This will be a temporary two year and two month increase to fund
general city services. General city services can include the funding to hire
additional police officers, install speed humps in residential areas and repair
neighborhood streets and major roads and highways, continue efforts to fight
gangs and drugs by expanding anti-crime programs, and funding for improving
local parks. If approved, the additional funds generated by this Measure would
be placed in the City of Pomona’s general fund to be designated for specific uses
and programs by City Council resolution.

Measure “PC” exempts qualified disabled individuals and senior citizens 62 years
and older from the temporary tax increase. This Measure also requires an annual
independent audit of the funds generated and the expenditure of such funds.

A “Yes” vote on Measure “PC” supports imposing a temporary, two month and
two year, one percent (1%) Utility Users Tax increase to generate funds for
general city services, subject to the independent audit provisions of the Measure.
A “No” vote on Measure “PC” will maintain the current level of the Utility
Users Tax, and no additional revenues will be generated to continue or expand
existing public services.

ARNOLD M. ALVAREZ-GLASMAN
City Attorney, City of Pomona

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “PC.” If you desire a
copy of the measure, please call the City of Pomona’s City Clerk’s Office at
(909) 620-2341 and a copy will be provided to you at no cost.

PR-900483-1

N LA 701-038

California is facing a budget crisis. Our governor has cut back funds to local
governments and education institutions. These cut back of funds from
Sacramento has caused our local city government to cut back on vital city
services. Services which include police patrols, library hours, funds for our parks,
street maintenance and employee lay offs at city hall.

This means that we as a community are receiving less city services than before.
These cut backs have come at a time when homicides and violence on Pomona
streets have escalated. These cut backs have come at a time when all city services
are very important.

In response to the cut backs from Sacramento a community effort has been made
to generate local tax revenue which could only be used in Pomona and not
robbed from the politicians at the state capitol.

Measure PC, this 1% percent increase to the Utility User Tax in Pomona would
be in effect for two years and two months. This city tax would exclude senior
citizens 62 years and older, the legally handicapped, and lower income individual
family households. All funds generated by the tax would be deposited into the
general fund of the city and used for general municipal services. We are asking
Pomona voters to help save our city by voting yes on Measure PC.

By voting yes for Measure PC you as a voter can stop the cut backs to our police
and fire services. A yes vote would help the library to stay open at normal hours.
A yes vote would help save our parks and recreation programs. A yes vote would
reduce the two year waiting period for speed humps. A yes vote would help pave
alleys and repair broken sidewalks.

Vote yes for Measure PC

OLINDA MAYORAL
Senior Citizen of Pomona

PR-900483-2

N LA 701-039

POMONA CITIZEN’S DON’T NEED ANOTHER BURDENSOME AND
SENSELESS TAX INCREASE

Measure PC will increase your Utility Tax from (9.0%) to (10%) for 26 months.
Thus, further burdening you during a time of unprecedented increases in
gasoline, food, energy and other necessary commodities for daily living.

Measure PC will not raise enough money to do anything significant and worthy
for citywide improvements and services.

Measure PC was proposed by one person who has a reputation for generating
senseless, ill-founded and thoughtless measures that do nothing to better
Citywide programs and services.

Measure PC is a frivolous waste of taxpayer’s money and is worthless and

shameful.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE PC TO STOP ANY MORE TAXES ON GOOD
POMONA CITIZENS

MILO E. RODICH

Founder, Pomona Taxpayers Relief Alliance
President, Pomona Coalition For Better Government

PR-900483-3

N LA 701-040

...PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE PC------------------

EXHIBIT A

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF POMONA ENACTING
“THE POMONA UTILITY TAX TEMPORARY INCREASE MEASURE,”
WHICH INCREASES THE CITY OF POMONA UTILITY USERS TAX BY
ONE PERCENT (1%) FOR A PERIOD OF TWO YEARS AND TWO MONTHS

WHEREAS, “The Pomona Utility Users Tax Temporary Increase Measure” was
approved by a majority of the voters voting at the General Municipal Election
held on November 4, 2008;

WHEREAS, the enactment of the temporary one percent (1%) increase from
nine percent (9%) to ten percent (10%) to the Utility Users’ Tax will provide
funding for Citywide services, such as streets and sidewalk repairs, park
maintenance and programs and public safety services;

WHEREAS, residential utility users who are legally disabled, senior citizens or
low-income families are exempt from the one percent (1%) increase to the
Utility Users’ Tax;

WHEREAS, at the conclusion of the two-year and two-month period during
which the increase is in effect, the City of Pomona Utility Users’ Tax rate will
revert from ten percent (10%) to (9%), the same rate that was in effect prior to
the enactment of this Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, at the conclusion of the two-year and two-month period during
which the increase is in effect, exemptions from payment of the Utility Users’
Tax for legally disabled and senior citizens will expire but will continue to be
available to low-income households.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
POMONA AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Pomona City Code Sections 50-203, 50-204, 50-205 and 50-218 are
hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 50-203. Telephone users tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using telephone
communication services, including services for intrastate, interstate, or
international calls, and using any teletypewriter exchange services in the city. The
term “charges,” as used in this section, includes charges made for (i) telephone
service; and (ii) minimum charges for service, including customer charges,
demand charges, standby charges, and annual and monthly charges. The tax
imposed by this section shall be as follows:

PR-900483-4

N LA 701-041

(Continued on next page)

PRQPQSEDORDINANCE OF MEASURE PC (Continued)

(1)	Residential users: nine percent, effective January 1, 1997.

(2)	Commercial/industrial users: nine percent, effective January 1,1997.

13) Effective December 11. 2008, or as soon thereafter as legally and practically
possible (“Effective Date”), an additional one percent (1%) tax shall be imposed
upon both residential and commercial/industrial users, resulting in the rate of
ten percent (10%). The additional one percent (1%) tax shall terminate
twentv-six (26) months from the Effective Date, returning the rate to nine
percent (9%).

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall not include charges for
services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones, except that
where such coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a guaranteed
amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other
periodic charge shall be included in the base for computing the amount of tax
due.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person providing the telephone communication services or the teletypewriter
exchange services. The amount of tax collected in the month must be received by
the city treasurer on or before the 20th day of the following month. The duty to
collect the tax based on a measure including charges for interstate and
international communication services or interstate and international
teletypewriter exchange services shall commence with the first regular billing
period of each service user ending on or after the effective date of the ordinance
from which this section is derived. Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section,
the tax imposed under this section shall not be imposed upon any person for
using intrastate telephone communications services to the extent that the
amounts paid for such services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed
under section 4251 of title 26 of the United States Code, as such section existed
on November 1, 1967.

Sec. 50-204. Electricity users tax.

(a)	There is imposed a tax upon every person in the city using electrical energy
in the city. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the following rates of
percentage of the charges made for such energy and shall be paid by the person
paying for such energy. The term “charges,” as used in this section, includes
charges made for (i) metered energy; and (ii) minimum charges for service,
including customer charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges,
and annual and monthly charges. The tax imposed by this section shall be as
follows:

(1)	Residential users: nine percent, effective January 1, 1997.

(2)	Commercial/industrial users: nine percent, effective January 1, 1997.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900483-5

N LA 701-042

(3)	Effective December 11.2008. or as soon thereafter as legally and practically
possible (“Effective Date”), an additional one percent (1%) tax shall be imposed
upon both residential and commereial/industrial users, resulting in the rate of
ten percent (10%). The additional one percent (1%) tax shall terminate
twenty-six (26) months from the Effective Date, returning the tax rate to
nine percent (9%).

(b)	As used in this section, the term “using electrical energy” shall not mean the
storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or possessed by him for
use in an automobile or other machinery or device apart from the premises upon
which the energy was received; provided, however, that the term shall include the
receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in the charging of batteries;
nor shall the term include the mere receiving of such energy by an electric public
utility or governmental agency at a point within the city for resale.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person supplying such energy. The amount of tax collected in one month
shall be remitted to the city treasurer on or before the 20th day of the following
month.

Sec. 50-205. Gas users tax.

(a)	There is imposed a tax upon every person in the city using gas in the city.
The tax imposed by this section shall be at the following rates of percentage of
the charges made for such gas and shall be paid by the person paying for such
gas. The term “charges,” as used in this section, includes charges made for (i)
metered gas; and (ii) minimum charges for service, including customer charges,
service charges, demand charges, standby charges, and annual and monthly
charges. The tax imposed by this section shall be as follows:

(1)	Residential users: nine percent, effective January 1,1997.

(2)	Commereial/industrial users: nine percent, effective January 1,1997.

(31 Effective December 11.2008. or as soon thereafter as legally and practically
possible (“Effective Date”), an additional one percent (1%) tax shall be imposed
upon both residential and commereial/industrial users, resulting in the rate of
ten percent (10%). The additional one percent (1%) tax shall terminate
twentv-six (26) months from the Effective Date, returning the tax rate to
nine percent (9%).

(b)	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this
section is computed charges made:

(1)	For gas which is to be resold and delivered through mains or pipes;

(2)	For gas sold for use in the generation of electrical energy by a public utility
or a governmental agency; and

(3)	By a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in the conduct of the
business of gas public utilities.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900483-6

N LA 701-043

.....P«©«5SEB©iimtw^^	.........

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person selling the gas. The amount collected in one month shall be remitted
to the city treasurer on or before the 20th day of the following month.

Sec. 50-206. Water users tax.

(a)	There is imposed a tax upon every person in the city using water in the city.
The tax imposed by this section shall be at the following rates of percentage of
the charges made for such water and shall be paid by the person paying for such
water. The term “charges,” as used in this section includes charges made for (i)
metered water, and (ii) minimum charges for service, including customer
charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges, and annual and
monthly charges. The tax imposed by this section shall be as follows:

(1)	Residential users: nine percent, effective January 1,1997.

(2)	Commercial/industrial users: nine percent, effective January 1, 1997.

(31 'Effective"December 11.2008. or as soon thereafter as legally and practically
possible (“Effective Date”), an additional one percent (1%) tax shall be imposed
upon both residential and commercial/industrial users, resulting in the rate of
ten percent (10%). The additional one percent (1%) tax shall terminate
twentv-six (26) months from the Effective Date, returning the tax rate to nine
percent (9%).

(b)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person supplying the water.

(c)	The term “using water,” as used in this section, shall not include the mere
receiving of water by a public utility or governmental agency at a point within the
city for resale.

Sec. 50-218. Exemption for certain residential service users.

(a) The tax imposed by this article, including the temporary one percent tax
imposed in subsections 50-204(a)(3), 50-205(a)(3) and 50-206(a)(3) herein, shall
not apply during any calendar year to persons residing in the city who use
telephone, gas, electric or water services in or upon the premises where their
residential unit is situated and whose gross income from all sources whatsoever is
as follows:

(1)	One person living alone in a housekeeping unit who has a gross income of
less than $12,768.00.

(2)	Two persons living in a single housekeeping unit who have a combined
gross income of less than $13,762.00.

(3)	Three or more persons living in a single housekeeping unit who have a
combined gross income of less than $15,250.00.

(4)	Four or more persons living in a single housekeeping unit who have a
combined gross income of less than $19,599.00.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900483-7

N LA 701-044

(b)	The gross income levels as set forth in subsection (a) of this section shall be
adjusted effective July 1, 1986, and annually thereafter on July 1 of each
succeeding year in a percentage amount equal to the change in the Consumer
Price Index during the 12-month period for the Metropolitan
Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside Area as published by the United States Bureau
of Labor Statistics.

(c)	If a person has suffered an extreme financial emergency or if the payment
of the tax imposed by this article shall cause any person undue hardship
regardless of his gross income, the treasurer, upon the finding that such undue
hardship exists, may exempt such person from the payment of such tax.

(d)	In addition to the exemption provided in subsection fa) above, exemption
from the temporary additional one percent 11%) tax increase shall be available
to the following residential users:

(1)	Any legally disabled or blind individual with utility accounts in his or her
name, and who resides at the service address.

(2)	Any senior citizen age 62 or older with utility accounts in his or her name,
and who resides at the service address.

(3)	The exemptions provided in this subsection (d) (1) and (2) above shall be
granted consistent with the terms and procedures found in the
Gonsalves-Deukmeiian-Petris Senior Citizens Property Tax Assistance Law las
defined in California Revenue and Taxation Code section 20501. et seq.). Proof
of the State of California granting an exemption pursuant to this State law shall
be submitted for said exemption.

fe) The exemption allowed in subsection fd) above applies only to the
additional temporary one percent (1%) tax and shall apply only for the
twenty-six (26) month period following the Effective Date. The exemption
allowed in subsection Id) above does not allow for exemption from the tax rate
established by subsections 50-204 (a). 50-205 (a) and 50-206 (a).

SECTION 2. The amendments enacted by this ordinance may only be
amended or repealed by the approval of a majority of the voters voting on the
provisions at any election.

SECTION 3. If any provision of this measure, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held invalid by a final court judgment, it shall not
affect other provisions or applications that can be given effect and, to that end,
the provisions of this measure are severable.

SECTION 4. Enactment of this ordinance shall take effect only if approved
by a majority vote of the voters voting at the General Municipal Election to be
held on November 4, 2008, and shall become effective ten days after the City
Council declares and certifies by resolution the results of the election and that
the measure was approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon.

PR-900483-8

N LA 701-045