VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

SANTA CRUZ CITY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

To reduce class size in all elementary grades, support

P achievement in science, reading, writing, and the arts, and
fund school libraries and literacy instruction, shall Santa
Cruz City Elementary School District continue its expiring
parcel tax for nine years at an annual rate of $105/ parcel,
exempting parcels owned/ occupied by senior citizens (65+)? An
independent oversight committee will audit spending, with every
dollar staying in this community to support local elementary
schools and no funds used for administrator salaries.

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE P

Santa Cruz City Elementary School District Small Class Size and Academic
Achievement Act

To provide revenue that cannot be taken by the State and will remain in our com-
munity to reduce class size in all elementary grades and enhance elementary
student achievement in science, reading, writing and the arts, shall the Santa
Cruz City Elementary School District continue its expiring education parcel tax
for a period of 9 years, beginning July 1,2008, at a rate of $105 per year on each
assessor’s parcel located within the Santa Cruz City Elementary School District?

To this end, funds raised by this parcel tax shall be used to strengthen and enrich
elementary academic programs by means such as:

a.	providing the local funding for class size reduction (K-3), which is then
matched more than six-fold by the state, and preventing a 60% increase in
class size in Kindergarten, First, Second and Third Grades;

b.	providing local funding for class size reductions in grades 4-5, so that
classes contain a maximum of 27 students per class on average, rather than
32;

c.	funding elementary school science instruction;

d.	providing early literacy instruction programs for elementary students and
funding pre-kindergarten programs; retaining; and

e.	retaining credentialed librarians, library assistants, teachers and other em-
ployees; and

f.	providing arts education teachers and supplies, including music, performing
and visual arts.

The School District’s expiring parcel tax for elementary education began in 2003
and has been collected at the flat rate of $81 per parcel per year since then. This
Measure will extend the expiring parcel tax for nine years, beginning July 1,2008,
at the flat rate of $105 per year, for each assessor’s parcel within the Elementary
School District (grades K-6). A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District
that now receives a separate real property tax bill from Santa Cruz County. All
property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt
from the imposition of said qualified special tax.

An exemption from the tax will be made available to each individual in the District
who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax year, owns a beneficial inter-
est in the parcel, and uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence. Ap-
plications for such senior exemptions shall be made to the District on or before July
1,2008, or July 1 of any succeeding tax year. Any one application from a qualified
applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the tax
so long as such applicant continues to own and use the parcel as his or her princi-
pal residence.

In addition to the accountability measures required by law, the independent com-
munity oversight committee that has been appointed by the Board of Education to
oversee all expenditures funded by the existing parcel tax will continue to audit all
funds in order to ensure that said funds are spent wisely and used only for the pur-
poses approved by the voters. The oversight committee shall monitor the expendi-
tures of these funds by the District and shall report on an annual basis to the
community on how these funds have been spent.

None of the funds raised by the parcel tax will be used for administrator salaries.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE P

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Santa
Cruz City Elementary School District (the “School District”) will be authorized to
levy a special tax assessment on real property in the amount of $105 per year on
each assessor’s parcel within the School District for a period of nine years. The
proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be used only for the purposes set out
in the text of Measure P in this pamphlet and include funding for school libraries
and reduced class size in all elementary grades, and support for science, reading,
writing, arts and literacy instruction.

In June 2003, the voters approved a special parcel tax on parcels within the Santa
Cruz Elementary School District at the rate of $81 per year for a period of five
years, expiring on June 30, 2008. The special tax assessment authorized by this
measure, if approved, would begin July 1, 2008 and continue until June of 2017.

In accordance with State law, the School District Board shall deposit the proceeds
of the special tax into a designated account. An annual written report shall show
the amount of the special tax collected and expended, and the status of projects to
be funded from these proceeds. Additionally, the independent community over-
sight committee appointed by the School District Board for the parcel tax approved
by the voters in 2003 will continue to monitor expenditures and report annually.

The special tax shall be collected in the same manner as those property taxes
which are based upon property value. An exemption from the tax will be granted for
any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who occupy the
parcel as a principal residence, if the owner makes a one-time application for
exemption.

A “yes” vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A “no” vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.
si DANA McRAE, COUNTY COUNSEL

44-505

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P  Small class sizes make all the difference for students in our Santa Cruz City Schools Elementary District. Individual attention from talented teachers helps students achieve in school. It helps them learn science, reading, writing, mathe- matics, the arts and other crucial subjects.  State and federal funding alone does not support small classes and the high-qual- ity academic programs we need for our kids.  That’s why Santa Cruz voters approved a parcel tax in 2003: to support academic enhancements that give our local students a high-quality education.  This local funding that protects our schools from state budget cuts will end: unless voters choose to renew it by voting Yes on Measure P. Measure P sup- ports small classes, science education, early literacy instruction, the arts, libraries and much more.  Without Measure P, local elementary schools will have to cut nearly $1,250,000 per year needed to maintain high-quality educational programs.  Without Measure P, class sizes will increase by 50% from Kindergarten through 3rd grade, meaning crowded classrooms and less individual attention for students.  Vote Yes on Measure P to:  •	Ensure small classes in Kindergarten through 3rd grade—a maximum of 20 students  •	Reduce class sizes from 32 to an average of 27 students in the other elementary grades  •	Enhance school science instruction  •	Provide early literacy instruction  •	Support school library programs  •	Provide arts education teachers and supplies  Every dollar from Measure P will be spent in our local schools to improve ele- mentary education. Not a single dime will to go the state or to administrator sala- ries.  Measure P includes community-based citizen oversight, ensuring all funds are spent wisely to maintain excellent education in our schools, and it allows an ex- emption for senior citizens.  Help make sure local students get the quality education they need to suc- ceed—Vote Yes on Measure P.  si John Laird State Assemblymember  si Sharon Maxwell 3rd Grade Teacher at DeLaveaga Elementary  si George Ow, Jr.  Businessperson  si Patty Zoccoli  Former Westlake Elementary PTA President, Business Owner  si George “Bud” Winslow Former School Superintendent, Senior Senator	NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P WAS FILED.