PAGE

6

STATE MEASURES

. _	VETERANS' BOND ACT OF 2008. This act provides for a bond

1 O	issue of nine hundred million dollars ($900,000,000) to provide farm

■ ™ and home aid for California veterans. Fiscal Impact: Costs of about
$1.8 billion to pay off both the principal ($900 million) and interest ($856 million) on
the bonds; costs paid by participating veterans. Average payment for principal and"
million per year for 30 years.	________

132	yes-KD

133	N0-*O

interest of about $59

COUNTY MEASURES

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

138

R TRAFFIC RELIEF. RAIL EXTENSIONS. REDUCE FOREIGN OIL 137
DEPENDENCE. To: Synchronize traffic signals; Repair potholes; Extend
light rail with airport connections; Improve freeway traffic flow (5,10,14,60,

101, 110, 138, 210, 405, 605, 710); Keep senior/student/disabled fares low;

Provide clean-fuel buses; Expand subway/Metrolink/bus service; Dedicate millions for community traffic
relief; Shall Los Angeles County's sales tax increase one-half cent for 30 years with independent audits,
public review of expenditures, all locally controlled?

NO-

►o

►o

SCHOOL

LONG BEACH UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

143

144

K CLASSROOM REPAIR, STUDENT SAFETY MEASURE, To make
essential health/safety repairs, retain teachers, qualify for matching grants,
shall Long Beach Unified School District retrofit schools for earthquake

safety/handicap accessibility, repair restrooms/plumbing/roofs/fire safety, _____________________

remove lead paint/asbestos, upgrade vocational classrooms/technology/energy efficiency, expand
after-school programs, reduce overcrowding, by acquiring, repairing, constructing, equipping sites,
facilities, joint-use buildings, and issuing $1,200,000,000 in bonds at legal rates with independent audits,
citizen’s oversight, and no money for administrators’ salaries?

YES-»;

Q

NO-

CITY

LONG BEACH CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

MEASURE G - LONG BEACH UTILITY USERS TAX fj MODERNIZATION MEASURE - Without raising current tax rates, shall an ordinance be adopted to help preserve funding for critical City services, including police and fire protection, paramedic and emergency response, street maintenance, parks, youth services, and libraries, by updating the telephone users evolving technologies so that all taxpayers are treated equally regardless of technol	149	YES^o  150	N0-*O  ax to include new and agy used?
. MEASURE I - LONG BEACH INFRASTRUCTURE REINVESTMENT  I ACT - To repay bonds which the City intends to issue to repair/replace city ■ streets, sidewalks, alleys, storm drains, fire stations, police stations, libraries and recreational facilities and to acquire, restore and preserve wetlands, shall an Ordinance be adopted which establishes an annual parcel tax of $120 per 8.8 cents per square foot for other uses) adjusted annually for inflation?	152	YES-*  153	no-*o  residential unit (0.4 to

END OF BALLOT

06-066E

N LA 408-008

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

By Robert E. Shannon, City Attorney

Measure G would ratify and update the City’s existing Utilities Users Tax
(“UUT”), so that it may be applied equally to both older telephone technology
and to newer telecommunications technology at the current tax rate of 5%, while
continuing to exempt low-income seniors and disabled persons.

Background

A UUT is a tax levied on each user of a utility within the City’s boundaries. Since
1970 the City has imposed a telephone users’ tax on persons using telephone
service in the City. The tax is based on the telephone user’s monthly usage,
collected by the telephone provider and conveyed to the City. UUT revenues are
paid into the City’s general fund to finance such services as police, fire, street
repair, parks, libraries and recreation programs.

The current tax rate is 5% of the charges billed. Measure G will not increase the
5% tax rate.

In past years, the City of Long Beach, like most California cities with telephone
UUTs, relied on definitions provided by federal law to describe which specific
telephone services are covered by the City’s UUT. Recent interpretation of these
federal law definitions has changed. This changed interpretation created
uncertainty in the application and scope of the City’s UUT. As a result, the Long
Beach City Council adopted an Ordinance amending its UUT, which addressed
these problems. This measure would ratify that Ordinance and thereby update
the City’s UUT law by eliminating references to the federal law definitions. It
would also further amend the Ordinance to assure that the UUT will be
applicable to emerging and rapidly changing communications technologies.

Measure G

-Would ratify an Ordinance previously adopted by the Long Beach City
Council, which removes references to outdated federal law definitions from the
City’s telephone UUT.

-Would include new definitions to address new technologies and treat all
telephone customers equally, whether they use traditional landline telephones,
cell phones, or some future mode of communication services.

- Would not increase the current tax rate of 5%. Voter approval will be required
for any future tax increase.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 408-034

-	Would not apply to digital downloads, such as books, music, games and similar
products, or cable or video television services that are instead subject to State
and Federal franchise fees.

-	Would not change current federal law which prohibits taxing the Internet.

-Would maintain existing exemptions for low-income seniors and disabled
persons.

Measure G requires approval of a majority of voters. A “yes” vote for Measure G
will ratify the City’s current UUT and approve the updates described above. A
“no” vote against Measure G will reject the proposed amendments to the UUT
Ordinance, thus continuing the UUT in its present form.

PR-900511-2

N LA 408-035

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Vote Yes on Measure G to continue funding essential city services such as
police protection, paramedics, lifeguards, fire rescue, libraries, park maintenance
and recreation programs for children and seniors.

Measure G is NOT a new tax and the existing rate will NOT increase.

Measure G simply continues the existing Utility User Tax that has been in place
since 1985. With a unanimous vote of the City Council, Measure G provides the
voters of Long Beach the opportunity to reaffirm the existing UUT due to legal
and technology changes that have occurred since it was implemented 23 years
ago.

Because the current UUT is so outdated, it contains loopholes and not everyone
is paying their fair share. Your yes vote will ensure that all taxpayers, regardless
of the technology they use, are treated the same and everyone pays their fair
share.

Measure G is critical to our community and our ability to deliver services to you.
The UUT generates $15 million every year to the City, which represents enough
revenue to fund 100 police officers or all the youth and senior recreation and
after school programs. Without funds from the UUT, there will be major cuts to
these important public services. Long Beach is a great city to live in, let’s keep it
that way.

Measure G exempts low-income seniors and low-income persons with disabilities
from paying the UUT.

Vote YES on Measure G to close unfair loopholes and continue funding
essential services that make Long Beach a great place to live, work and play.

LAURA L. DOUD
City Auditor

PATRICK H. WEST
City Manager

PR-900511-3

N LA 408-036

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

A common method used to get voter approval of tax increases, is the implied
threat to cut city services. Don’t be fooled!

Other California cities have modified the language and lowered the rate of the
Utility User Tax (UUT), implying it would save residents money. By broadening
the scope of taxable services, bills actually increased.

Measure G has been written in such a way that it seems to ignore the major
reason this measure is now on the ballot. Even the “impartial analysis” by the
City Attorney - which reads more like a second city ballot argument rather than
an independent opinion - omits the fact that the courts may very well overturn
their current ordinance because the city failed to ask voter approval before
imposing this net tax increase.

Measure G Claims It’s a fairness issue intended to equalize new and older
technologies. However; this is also a tax increase plain and simple. Measure G
will also allow the City of Long Beach to tax any future new technologies they
choose without getting voter approval.

Measure G is unnecessary, since pending lawsuits and federal legislation will
ultimately determine what taxes and services the City of Long Beach can legally
charge residents for on their utility bills!

In the middle of our economic downturn, many Californians are suffering. Yet
the City, County, State and School Districts are clamoring for more tax increases
and bond money we do not have..

Vote No on “G”!

TOM STOUT

Long Beach Taxpayers Association

PR-900511-4

N LA 408-037

The City of Long Beach has been charging residents a 5% “Utility User Tax”
(UUT) on cell phones since 2006. The city has not been forthright with residents
as to the reason that Measure G has been placed on the November 4 ballot, at a
cost of $400,000.00 dollars.

I	believe Long Beach is in violation Proposition 218, which requires cities to
place any new tax on the ballot for voter approval before enacting it. Long Beach
has not done this, and has been collecting millions of dollars of taxpayer money,
in possible violation of Proposition 218.

The city states the reason for the UUT revision is; the incorporation of new and
evolving technologies to ensure the users of older technologies are not unfairly
burdened by UUT, that is not the whole story. Some additional reasons for the
UUT revisions are: (1) the City is being sued for allegedly collecting taxes on
Wireless Communications Devices (cell phones); (2) pending Federal legislation
that would put a moratorium on new wireless communication taxes for 3 years;
and (3) the city will be able to tax new and evolving technologies without future
voter approval.

The Howard Jarvis Association has brought a test case against the City of
Sacramento for this alleged illegal tax. If the suit is successful many cities in
California, including Long Beach, will have to refund millions of dollars to
resident cell phone users.

The city is careful to say the tax rate will not increase; what they fail to say is by
expanding the taxable technologies through Measure G; i.e.., texting, your taxes
may/will increase.

Once again, Long Beach City Officials have been disingenuous with residents as
to why they want to get voter approval after the fact for revision of the Utility
User Tax (Measure G). Vote No on “G”

TOM STOUT

Long Beach Taxpayer Association

N LA 408-038

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Long Beach residents voted to approve the current Utility Users Tax (UUT) in
November 2000 by supporting Measure J.

Measure G is on the ballot this November asking Long Beach residents to
reaffirm the existing UUT due to legal and technological changes that occurred
since it was approved in 2000, including:

-The proliferation of wireless communications and development of new
technology.

- The modification of the Federal Excise Tax, which was used as the basis for the
UUT in Long Beach as well as many other California cities that have recently
placed their UUT on the ballot.

The opponent of Measure G is falsely stating that the City of Long Beach is in
violation of Proposition 218 which provides for voter approval of new or changes

in local taxes.

This is completely backwards!

The fact is Measure G was placed on the ballot by the City Council asking voters
to reaffirm the UUT in compliance with Proposition 218.

Measure G is NOT a tax increase and does NOT create a new tax.

Your yes vote on Measure G reaffirms the existing UUT which generates over
$15 million that funds our police and fire departments, parks, libraries, youth and
seniors programs and many other important City services.

Please vote YES on Measure G.

LAURA L. DOUD
City Auditor

PATRICK H. WEST
City Manager

N LA 408-039

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA
AMENDING CHAPTER 3.68 OF THE LONG BEACH MUNICIPAL CODE
TO MODERNIZE THE UTILITY USERS TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LONG BEACH DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Section 3.68.020 of the Long Beach Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

“3.68.020 Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this section
govern the construction of this chapter.

A.	‘Ancillary telecommunications services’ means services that are associated
with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications
services including, but not limited to, the following:

1.	Services that link two or more participants of an audio or video conference
call, including the provision of a telephone number.

2.	Services that separately state information pertaining to individual calls on a
customer’s billing statement.

3.	Services that provide telephone number information, and/or address
information.

4.	Services offered in connection with one or more telecommunications services,
which offer advanced calling features that allow customers to identify callers or
to manage multiple calls and call connections.

5.	Services that enable customers to store, send or receive recorded messages.

B.	‘Billing address’ means the mailing address of a service user where a service
supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the service user.

C.	‘City’ means the City of Long Beach.

D.	‘Electrical corporation’ has the same meaning as defined in Section 218 of the
Public Utilities Code.

E.	‘Month’ means a calendar month.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900511-7

N LA 408-040

MEAStffiE^(eontinued)

F.	‘Person’ means, without limitation, any natural person; domestic, nonprofit or
foreign corporation; firm; trust; estate; association; syndicate; joint stock
company; limited liability company; partnership of any kind; joint venture; club;
business or common-law trust of any kind; society; cooperative; receiver, trustee,
guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court; municipal
district; or municipal corporation (other than the city); or the manager, lessee,
agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them.

G.	‘Service address’ means the residential street address or the business street
address of the service user’s primary place of use.

H.	‘Service supplier’ means any entity or person that provides telephone
communication, electric, gas, or water service to a user of such services within
the city.

I.	‘Service user’ means a person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter.

J.	‘Tax administrator’ means the revenue administrator of the City of Long
Beach.

K.	‘Telephone communication services’ includes the transmission, conveyance,
or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a
point, or between or among points, whether or not such information is
transmitted through interconnected service with the public switched network,
whatever the technology used, whether such transmission, conveyance or routing
occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic, light wave, laser, microwave, radio wave
(including, but not limited to, cellular service, commercial mobile service,
personal communications service (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), and
other types of personal wireless service - see 47 USCA Section 332(c) (7)
(C) (i) - regardless of radio spectrum used), switching facilities, satellite or any
other technology now existing or developed after the adoption of this section,
and includes, without limitation, fiber optic, coaxial cable, and wireless. The term
‘telephone communication services’ includes such transmission, conveyance, or
routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or
routing without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over
internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal
Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video
and/or data services that are functionally integrated with telecommunications
services.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900511-8

N LA 408-041

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE G (Continued)

‘Telephone communication services’ include, but are not limited to, the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated
or billed: central office and custom calling features (including but not limited to
call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling), local
number portability, text messaging, ancillary telecommunication services,
prepaid and post-paid telecommunications services (including but not limited to
prepaid calling cards); mobile telecommunications service; private
telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free
numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission); and
value-added non-voice data service. For purposes of this section, ‘private
telecommunication service’ means any dedicated telephone communications
service that entitle a user to exclusive or priority use of communications
channels. Telephone communication service’ does not include: internet access
services; video programming services; and digital downloads, such as downloads
of books, music, ringtones, games and similar digital products.

L.	Telephone corporation’ has the same meaning as defined in section 234 of
the Public Utilities Code.”

Section 2. Section 3.68.050 of the Long Beach Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

“3.68.050 Telephone tax.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every person, other than a telephone
corporation, who uses telephone communication services in the city, including
intrastate, interstate, and international telephone communication services, to the
extent permitted by federal and state law. Interstate calls shall be deemed to
include calls to the District of Columbia. The telephone users tax is intended to,
and does, apply to all charges within the city’s tax jurisdiction, such as charges
billed to a telephone account having a situs in the city as permitted by the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000, 4 U.S.C. § 116 et seq. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five percent (5%). The tax shall
apply to all charges made for such telephone communication services and shall
be collected from the service user by the services supplier or its billing agent.
There is a rebuttable presumption that telephone communication services billed
to a billing or service address in the city are used, in whole or in part, within the
city, and that such services are subject to taxation under this chapter. There is
also a rebuttable presumption that telephone communication services sold within
the city that are not billed to a billing address or provided to a primary physical
location (such as prepaid calling card services) are used, in whole or in part,
within the city and are therefore subject to taxation under this chapter.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900511-9

N LA 408-042

B.	As used in this section, the term ‘charges’ shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for the telephone communication
services.

C.	The tax administrator may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers administrative rulings identifying those
telecommunication services that are subject to the tax of subsection A of this
section. Such administrative rulings shall be consistent with legal nexus and laws
pertaining to telephone communications services and shall not impose a new tax,
revise an existing tax methodology, or increase an existing tax, except as allowed
by California Government Code Section 53750(h) (2) and (3) or other law. The
tax administrator may consider state-wide interpretive rules and guidelines
promulgated by any government agency or association of government agencies as
a factor in determining the intent of voters adopting this section. To the extent
that the tax administrator determines that the tax imposed under this section
shall not be collected in full for any period of time, such an administrative ruling
falls within the tax administrator’s discretion to settle disputes. The tax
administrator’s exercise of prosecutorial forbearance under this chapter does not
constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code
section 53750(h), and the city does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose the
telephone users’ tax in full as a result of issuing such administrative rulings and
may suspend such rulings and recommence collection of the tax without
additional voter approval.

D.	The following shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section:

1.	Charges paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones available to
the public with respect to local telephone service, or with respect to long distance
telephone service if the charge for such long distance telephone service is less
than 25 cents; except that where such coin-operated telephone service is
furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus
any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be subject to the tax.

2.	Except with respect to local telephone service, on any charges for services
used in the collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker service
furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press, or radio
broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news through the public press, or a news
ticker service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press,
or by means of radio broadcasting, if the charge for such service is billed in
writing to such person.

3.	Charges for services furnished to an international organization designated
under the International Organizations Immunities Act and defined in 22 USCA
288 or to the American National Red Cross.

PR-900511-10

N LA 408-043

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE G (Continued)

4.	Charges for any long distance telephone service which originates within a
combat zone, as defined in section 112 of the Internal Revenue Code, from a
member of the Armed Forces of the United States performing service in such
combat zone, as determined under such section, provided a certificate, setting
forth such facts as the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may by regulations
prescribe, is furnished to the person receiving such payment.

5.	Charges for any long distance telephone service to the extent that the amount
so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company, or radio
broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its business as such.

6.	Amounts paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to such
organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term “nonprofit hospital”
means a hospital referred to in Internal Revenue Code section 170(b)(l)(A)(iii)
which is exempt from income tax under Internal Revenue Code section 501(a).

7.	Charges for services or facilities furnished to the government of any State, or
any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia.

8.	Charges paid by a nonprofit educational organization for services or facilities
furnished to such organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term
“nonprofit educational organization” means an educational organization
described in Internal Revenue Code section 170(b)(l)(A)(ii) which is exempt
from income tax under Internal Revenue Code section 501(a). The term also
includes a school operated as an activity of an organization described in Internal
Revenue Code section 501(c)(3) which is exempt from income tax under Internal
Revenue Code section 501(a), if such school normally maintains a regular faculty
and curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students
in attendance at the place where its educational activities are regularly carried
on.

9.	Charges for maritime mobile services as defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47 of
the Code of Federal Regulations as such section existed on January 1,1970.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telephone communication
services subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the tax
administrator that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another
American jurisdiction on such telephone communication services, shall be
allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax
legally imposed in such other jurisdiction; provided, however, the amount of
credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the city under this section. This ordinance
shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition and collection of the utility
users tax to the fullest extent permitted by California and federal law, and as it
may change from time to time.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 408-044

F.	The tax on telephone communication services imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax
collected from the twenty-sixth day of each month through the twenty-fifth day of
the following month shall be remitted to the city clerk on or before the
twenty-sixth day of such following month, or at the option of the person required
to collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax collected, measured by
billings of the previous month, shall be remitted to the clerk on or before the
twenty-sixth day of each month.

G.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a
tax under this subchapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the
utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as
that law may change from time to time. Any telephone communication service
(including VoIP) used by a person with a service address in the city, which
service is capable of making a call to another person on the general telephone
network, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial
nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a
duty to collect and remit a tax, under this chapter. A service supplier shall be
deemed to have sufficient activity in the city to be obligated to collect and remit
the tax imposed by this chapter if it does any of the following: maintains or has
within the city, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of business of
any nature; solicits business in the city by employees, independent contractors,
resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the city by means of
advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the city or
distributed from a location within the city; or advertises in newspapers or other
periodicals printed and published within the city or through materials distributed
in the city by means other than the United States mail.”

Section 3. Section 3.68.065 of the Long Beach Municipal Code, added in 2006
by ORD-06-0035, is hereby ratified and readopted.

Section 4. Section 3.68.075 of the Long Beach Municipal Code is hereby added
to read as follows:

“3.68.075 Effect of state and federal authorization

To the extent that the city’s authorization to impose or collect any tax imposed
under this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal
law, no amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to conform
the tax to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full
extent of the city’s authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed under
this chapter.”

(Continued on next page)

PR-900511-12

N LA 408-045

Section 5. Section 3.68.170 of the Long Beach Municipal Code is hereby added
to read as follows:

“3.68.170 Independent Audit

The city shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this chapter have been
properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this
chapter, and properly expended according to applicable law. The annual
verification shall be performed by a qualified independent third party and the
review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance,
including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be required of as
to a service supplier where the cost of the verification is expected to exceed the
tax revenues to be reviewed.”

Section 6. This Ordinance does not change the existing rate of any tax imposed
under Chapter 3.68 of the Long Beach Municipal Code.

Section 7. This Ordinance does not change the existing exemptions for
low-income seniors and disabled persons from the any tax imposed under
Chapter 3.68 of the Long Beach Municipal Code as specified in Section 3.68.080
of that Chapter. Any change to those exemptions which constitutes a tax increase
within the meaning of Government Code Section 53750(h) shall require a vote of
the people of the City of Long Beach,

Section 8. Chapter 3.68 of the Long Beach Municipal Code as amended by this
Ordinance may be repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of
the people except as follows: as required by Proposition 218, any amendment to
that chapter that increases the amount or rate of tax beyond the levels
authorized by this Ordinance may not take effect unless approved by a vote of
the people. The City Council may impose the taxes authorized by that chapter in
any amount or rate which does not exceed the rate approved by the voters of the
City.

Section 9. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance
is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of
this ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The people of the
City of Long Beach hereby declare that they would have adopted each section,
sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this
Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions
of this Ordinance are severable.

Section 10. As provided in Section 2001 of the Long Beach City Charter, if a
majority of those electors voting on this ordinance vote in favor of same, it shall
be adopted upon a declaration of the result of such ballot by the City Council,
and it shall take effect ten (10) days after that date.

PR-900511-13

N LA 408-046