BEFORE THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
OF THE COUNTY OF FRESNO
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF FRESNO
LEVYING A SPECIAL TAX WITHIN
ANNEXATION TERRITORY NO. 3A OF
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2006-01
(POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES)

OF THE COUNTY OF FRESNO

WHEREAS, on March 28, 2006, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Fresno
(this “Board") conducted proceedings (the "Original Proceedings”) to establish Community
Facilities District No. 2006-01 (Police Protection Services) of the County of Fresno (the
‘‘District"), and duly adopted its Resolution No. R-06-196 (the “Resolution of Intention"),
entitled “Resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Fresno, California,
Declaring its Intention to Establish Community Facilities District No. 2006-01 (Police
Protection Services) of the County of Fresno and to Authorize the Levy of a Special Tax
Therein to Finance Certain Services,” all in order to annually finance certain police
protection services described therein, and costs of annually administering the District, all
pursuant to Chapter 2.5 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 (commencing with Section 53311) of
the California Government Code, commonly known as the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act
of 1982 (collectively, the “Act"); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to public notices specified in the Act and in the Resolution of
Intention, and as part of the Original Proceedings, on May 2, 2006, this Board duly held a
Public Hearing under the Act, and at such hearing, all persons desiring to be heard on all
matters pertaining to the establishment and formation of the District, the rate and method of
apportionment of the special tax (“Special Tax”) to be levied annually within the District to
finance the police protection services, the levy of the Special Tax, the provision of the police
protection services, and all other matters set forth in the Resolution of Formation (defined
below), were heard, and substantial evidence was presented and considered by this Board
and a full and fair hearing was held; and

WHEREAS, upon the conclusion of the Public Hearing, this Board found that the
proposed Special Tax to be levied in the District had not been precluded by majority protest
pursuant to Section 53324 of the Act, that all protests (there were none) to the establishment of
the District, the extent thereof, or the furnishing of the police protection services proposed
therefor, or the levy of the Special Tax proposed to be levied in the District, were overruled, and
duly adopted its Resolution No. R-06-293 entitled “Resolution Establishing Community
Facilities District No. 2006-01 (Police Protection Services) of the County of Fresno,
Authorizing the Levy of a Special Tax Within the District, and Calling a Special Election for
the Purpose of Submitting the Levy of the Special Tax, and Initial Annual Appropriations
Limit, to a Vote of the Qualified Electors Within the District" (the “Resolution of Formation")
pursuant to which this Board completed the Original Proceedings for the establishment and
formation of the District, the authorization of the annual levy of the Special Tax within the
District, commencing County fiscal year 2006-07, and the calling of a special election of
qualified electors within the District on the combined propositions of annually levying the

Special Tax, commencing County fiscal year 2006-07, and establishing an initial annual
Appropriations Limit (of the District), respectively; and

WHEREAS, the exterior boundaries of the original District are described and shown in
the original District Boundary Map, which has been recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder of the County of Fresno, State of California, on April 3, 2006, in Book 41 of Maps of
Assessment and Community Facilities Districts, at pages 80 and 81, as Instrument No.
20060068943; and

WHEREAS, on May 2, 2006, a special election was duly held by this Board among
the qualified landowners electors within the original District, at which such landowner voters
approved such combined propositions by the two-thirds vote, which was required by the Act
for the annual levy of the Special Tax, and which authorized the initial annual Appropriations
Limit, which approvals have been confirmed by resolution of this Board; and

WHEREAS, on May 23, 2006, this Board duly adopted Ordinance No. 06-010 (the
“Original Ordinance”), entitled an "Ordinance of the County of Fresno Levying a Special Tax
Within Community Facilities District No. 2006-01 (Police Protection Services) of the County
Of Fresno,” authorizing and providing for, among other things, the annual levy of the Special
Tax within the original District pursuant to the Act, including, but not limited to, sections
53328 and 53340 of the Act, at the rates and in accordance with the special tax rate and
method of apportionment of the District set forth in the Resolution of Formation; and

WHEREAS, the Original Ordinance is valid, and enforceable, and continues to be in
full force and effect; and

WHEREAS, subsequent to the foregoing proceedings, this Board conducted
additional other proceedings to annex certain territory (which is not the subject of this
Ordinance) to the original District, providing for, among other things, the annual levy of the
Special Tax within the such annexation territory pursuant to the Act, including, but not
limited to, sections 53339.8 and 53340 of the Act, at the rates and in accordance with the
special tax rate and method of apportionment of the District, and the adoption of an
ordinance for the levy of such Special Tax within such annexation territory, and such
ordinance is valid, and enforceable, and continues to be in full force and effect; and

WHEREAS, on October 21,2008, this Board conducted proceedings to annex
certain territory (the “Annexation Territory") to the District (the “Annexation Proceedings”),
and duly adopted its Resolution No. 08-467 (the “Resolution of Intention to Annex”), entitled
“Resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Fresno, California, Declaring its
Intention to Annex Territory to Community Facilities District No. 2006-01 (Police Protection
Services) of the County of Fresno, to Authorize the Levy of a Special Tax Therein to
Finance Certain Services, and to Include Such Annexation Territory in the District for
Purposes of the Appropriations Limit of the District,” pursuant to the Act, all in order to
annually finance certain police protection services (the “Services"), and costs of annually
administering the District’s (including the proposed Annexation Territory’s) provision of
Services, all pursuant to the Act; and

WHEREAS, the special tax to pay for Services to be provided within the Annexation
Territory is equal to the Special Tax levied to pay for the same type of police protection

services provided in the District, and therefore the term “Special Tax” shall have the same
meaning in both the District and in the Annexation Territory; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to public notices specified in the Act and in the Resolution of
Intention to Annex, and as part of the Annexation Proceedings, on December 9, 2008, this
Board duly held a Public Hearing under the Act, and at such hearing, all persons desiring to
be. heard on all matters pertaining to the proposed annexation of the Annexation Territory to
the District, the proposed special tax rates and method of apportionment of the Special Tax
within the proposed Annexation Territory (collectively, the “Special Tax Rate and Method of
Apportionment of the Special Tax,” which is set forth in the Resolution Declaring Election
Results, and which rates and method are attached hereto as Exhibit “B," and by this
reference incorporated herein), the proposed levy of the Special Tax within the proposed
Annexation Territory (which is equal to the Special Tax levied to pay for the same type of
police protection services provided in the District), the provision of the proposed Services
within the proposed Annexation Territory, the vote of the levy of the Special Tax and of the
Appropriations Limit relative to the proposed Annexation Territory, and all other matters set
forth in the Resolution of Intention were heard, and substantial evidence was presented and
considered by this Board and a full and fair hearing was held; and

WHEREAS, upon the conclusion of the Public Hearing, this Board found that the
proposed Special Tax to be levied in the proposed Annexation Territory has not been
precluded by majority protest pursuant to section 53339.6 of the Act, that all protests (there
were none within the District or the proposed Annexation Territory) to the proposed
annexation of the proposed Annexation Territory to the District, the proposed Special Tax
Rate and Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax, Exhibit “B," the proposed levy of the
Special Tax within the proposed Annexation Territory, the provision of the proposed
Services within the proposed Annexation Territory, the vote of the levy of the Special Tax
and of the Appropriations Limit relative to the proposed Annexation Territory, and all other
matters set forth in the Resolution of Intention, were overruled; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of all of the foregoing, this Board had determined to call an
election, to submit to the qualified electors of the proposed Annexation Territory the
combined propositions of (i) the levy of the Special Tax therein (as such Special Tax is
more particularly described in Exhibit “B” to the Resolution of Intention to Annex and in
Exhibit “B" to the Resolution Calling a Landowner Election, below, and to this Ordinance),
and (ii) whether the initial Annual Appropriations Limit should include the proposed
Annexation Territory, and that such election shall be held as a special election, and, on
December 9, 2008, this Board duly adopted its Resolution No. R-08- 517 (the
“Resolution Calling a Landowner Special Election"), entitled "Resolution of the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Fresno Calling a Special Election for a Vote of the Qualified
Electors Within a Proposed Annexation Territory of Community Facilities District No. 2006-
01 (Police Protection Services) of the County of Fresno, for the Combined Propositions of
Levying a.Special Tax to Finance Certain Services, and Including Such Annexation Territory
in the District for Purposes of the Initial Appropriations Limit of the District;" and

WHEREAS, on December 9, 2008, a special election was duly held by this Board
among the qualified landowners electors within the proposed Annexation Territory, at which
the such landowner voters approved such combined propositions by the two-thirds vote,
which was required by the Act for the annual levy of the Special Tax for the proposed

Annexation Territory, and which authorized the initial annual Appropriations Limit to include
the proposed Annexation Territory; and

WHEREAS, on December 9, 2008, this Board duly adopted its Resolution No. R-08-
51% entitled “Resolution Declaring Results of Landowner Special Election for Proposed
Annexation Territory for Community Facilities District No. 2006-01 (Police Protection Services)
of the County of Fresno, Adding Such Annexation Territory to Such District, and Directing the
Recordation of an Amendment to Notice of Special Tax Lien" (the “Resolution Declaring
Election Results"), and confirmed the results of such special election, annexed the proposed
Annexation Territory to the District, and confirmed that the Appropriations Limit includes the
Annexation Territory; and

WHEREAS, the exterior boundaries of the Annexation Territory are described and
shown in the Boundary Map of the Annexation Territory, which is attached hereto as Exhibit
“A," and by this reference incorporated herein, and such Boundary Map heretofore has been
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of the County of Fresno, State of California, on
October 22, 2008, in Book 42 of Maps of Assessment and Community Facilities Districts, at
page 99, as Instrument No. 20080149648; and

WHEREAS, this Board now desires to adopt this Ordinance for purposes of
authorizing, conducting and enforcing the annual levy of the Special Tax pursuant to this
Ordinance, for taking all such other related actions as provided herein, and for meeting all
necessary requirements of the Act in connection therewith.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF
FRESNO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. This Board finds that all of the foregoing recitals are true and correct. All
capitalized terms in this Ordinance shall have the definition given to them in the Resolution
Declaring Election Results, unless otherwise defined herein.

Section 2. By the passage of this Ordinance, this Board hereby authorizes the
annual levy of the Special Tax within the Annexation Territory pursuant to the Act, including,
but not limited to, sections 53339.8 and 53340 of the Act, at the rates and in accordance
with the Special Tax Rate and Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax, Exhibit "B.” The
Special Tax is hereby authorized to be levied commencing in County fiscal year 2008-09
and In each County fiscal year thereafter in perpetuity equal to the then-current amount of
the Special Tax Requirement, as that term is defined in and calculated each County fiscal
year pursuant to the Special Tax Rate and Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax,
Exhibit “B."

As defined in the Special Tax Rate and Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax,
Exhibit "B," the Special Tax Requirement means “that amount required in any Fiscal Year
for the [District, including the Annexation Territory] to: (a) (i) pay for Police Protection
Services Costs; (ii) pay reasonable Administrative Expenses; less (b) a credit for funds
available, if any, to reduce the annual Special Tax levy, as determined by the CFD
Administrator.”

Section 3. This Board, or its designee, is hereby further authorized annually to
determine, by ordinance, resolution, or by other action if permitted by then applicable law, of
each County fiscal year, the specific amount of the Special Tax to be annually levied on each

parcel of land within the Annexation Territory that is not exempt from such Special Tax. The
amount of the Special Tax to be annually levied shall not exceed the maximum rates set forth in
the Special Tax Rate and Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax, Exhibit “B,” but the
Special Tax may be levied in any County fiscal year at lower rates. The Clerk to this Board, or
his or her designee, is hereby authorized and directed, commencing in County fiscal year 2008-
09, to file with the County Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax Collector on or before August 10 of
each County fiscal year a certified copy of such ordinance or resolution, or other document
evidencing action if permitted by then applicable law, accompanied by a certified list of all
parcels within the Annexation Territory subject to the Special Tax levy including the amount of
the Special Tax to be levied on each such parcel for the applicable County fiscal year. Such
documents may be combined with the certified list of all parcels within the District subject to the
special tax levy of the District including the amount of the special tax of the District to be levied
on each such parcel in the District for the applicable County fiscal year. The Clerk to this
Board, or his or her designee, may file such documents after August 10 of each County fiscal
year, but not later than August 21 of each County fiscal year, if the Clerk to this Board, or his or
her designee, obtains prior written consent of the County Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax
Collector.

Section 4. Exemptions from the levy of the Special Tax shall only be as provided in
the Resolution Declaring Election Results and the applicable provisions of the Act. In no
event shall the Special Tax be levied on any parcel within the Annexation Territory in excess
of the maximum tax rates specified in the Resolution Declaring Election Results.

Section 5. The Special Tax shall be collected from time to time as necessary to
meet the financial obligations of the District (including the Annexation Territory) as provided
herein. All of the collections of the Special Tax shall be as provided herein and in the Act
and in the Resolution Declaring Election Results.

Section 6. The Special Tax shall be collected in the same manner as ordinary ad
valorem property taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same penalties and the
same procedure, sale, and lien priority in case of delinquency as is provided for ad valorem
taxes; provided, however, the CFD Administrator may directly bill the Special Tax, may
collect Special Taxes at a different time or in a different manner if necessary to meet the
financial obligations of the District (including the Annexation Territory) or as otherwise
determined appropriate by the CFD Administrator. In addition, the provisions of Section
53356.1 of the Act shall apply to delinquent Special Tax payments. The Special Tax shall be
levied in perpetuity or until such time as this Board terminates the Special Tax. The CFD
Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to provide all necessary information to the
County Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax Collector in order to effect proper billing and
collection of the Special Tax, so that the Special Tax shall be included on the secured
property tax roll of the County of Fresno for fiscal year 2008-09 and for each County fiscal
year thereafter as provided herein.

Section 7. If for any reason any portion of this Ordinance is found to be invalid or
unenforceable, or if the Special Tax is found inapplicable to any particular parcel within the
Annexation Territory, by a court of competent jurisdiction, the balance of this Ordinance and
the application of the Special Tax to the remaining parcels within the Annexation Territory
shall not be affected.

Section 8. The Clerk to this Board hereby is directed to prepare and publish a
summary of this Ordinance, as proposed to this Board for its approval. The summary shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the County and a certified copy of the full
text of the proposed Ordinance shall be posted in the office of the Clerfc to this Board at least
five (5) days prior to the meeting of this Board at which the proposed Ordinance is to be
adopted by this Board. Within fifteen (15) days after adoption of this Ordinance, the Clerk to this
Board is hereby directed to publish in a newspaper of general circulation within the County a
summary of this Ordinance with the names of those supervisors voting for and against this
Ordinance, and the Clerk to this Board shall post in the office of the Clerk to this Board a
certified copy of the full text of this adopted Ordinance along with the names of those
supervisors voting for and against this Ordinance. The Resolution Declaring Election Results,
the Annexation Territory Boundary Map, Exhibit “A," and the Special Tax Rate and Method of
Apportionment of the Special Tax, Exhibit “B,” need not be published in their entirety. A
complete copy of such documents are on file with the Clerk to this Board and are available for
public inspection and copying in that office, at 2281 Tulare Street, 3rt Floor, County of Fresno
Hall of Records, Fresno, CA, 93721, in accordance with the California Public Records Act,
Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 6250) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the California
Government Code.

Section 9. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon final passage
by this Board, as provided in Government Code, section 25123(c).

THE FOREGOING WAS PASSED and ADOPTED by the BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF FRESNO this 19th day of December 2008, by
the following vote, to-wit:

*********

Supervisor Case, Larson, Waterston, Perea

NOES:	Supervisor	Anderson

ABSENT:	None

ATTEST:

Bernice Seidel, Clerk

Item No. 7

Ordinance No. 08-031



o

LU

LU

X

00

co

LU

o

HH

>

CL

LU

CO

o
►—«
h-

o

LU

I—

o

CL

CL

LU 2

O 7

o ~

_ CL

O p

^_u
<
oo
I -
CO O
o z
O CO
CN LU
CL
6 u-
2 Ll

h°

at

< £§

Q O

CO

LU

<

ro

CL

<

<

X

LU

CJ

<

Li_

X
I-
►—«

3

o

o

urn

EXHIBIT B

COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2006-01

(POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES)

OF THE COUNTY OF FRESNO

SPECIAL TAX RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT

(Commencing as of Fiscal Year 2008-09)

A Special Tax of Community Facilities District No. 2006-01 (Police Protection Services)
of the County of Fresno (“CFD”) shall be levied on all Assessor's Parcels in the CFD
and collected each Fiscal Year commencing in the Base Year in an amount determined
by the County through the application of the rate and method of apportionment of the
Special Tax set forth below. All of the real property in the CFD, unless exempted by law
or by the provisions hereof, shall be taxed for the purposes, to the extent and in the
manner herein provided.

This Special Tax Rate and Method of Apportionment uses the Special Tax Rate and
Method of Apportionment for the original CFD. Any differences between the text of this
Special Tax Rate and Method of Apportionment, and the text of the Special Tax Rate
and Method of Apportionment for the original CFD, are updated provisions herein (e.g.,
definition of Base Year, and the Maximum Special Tax Rates Per Unit commencing as
of the Base Year (which are subject to increases in subsequent Fiscal Years, as
provided herein)) that would conform this Special Tax Rate and Method of
Apportionment to the Special Tax Rate and Method of Apportionment for the original
CFD.

A.	DEFINITIONS

The terms hereinafter set forth have the following meanings:

"Act" means the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, as amended
from time to time following the establishment of the CFD, being Chapter 2.5, Part
1, Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code of the State.

"Administrative Expenses" means all actual and/or estimated costs and
expenses directly incurred by the County as administrator of the CFD to
determine, levy and collect the Special Taxes, including, but not limited to, the
portion of salaries, wages and benefits of County officers and employees related
to the determination, levy and collection of the Special Taxes, and all fees and

expenses of consultants, agents, third-party administrator(s) designated by the
CFD Administrator, and legal counsel, related to the determination, levy and
collection of the Special Taxes, and all costs and expenses of collecting
installments of the Special Taxes upon the general tax rolls or by any other
manner of collections as set forth in Section F, below, and preparing required
reports, and conducting audits, if deemed necessary by the County; and any
other costs and expenses directly incurred, which are required to administer the
CFD as determined by the County. On each July 1 following the Base Year, all of
the foregoing costs and expenses automatically shall be increased for each
Fiscal Year in accordance with the Annual Escalation Factor, provided however,
on each July 1 for each third subsequent Fiscal Year, commencing with Fiscal
Year 2011-12, the Annual Escalation Factor shall be reduced by an Escalation
Factor Adjustment, if any. Notwithstanding anything contained in this definition of
Administrative Expenses, the amount of Administrative Expenses in any Fiscal
Year that may be included in the Special Tax Requirement for that Fiscal Year
shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the Special Tax Requirement for that
Fiscal Year.

"Annual Escalation Factor" means the sum: of (i) the annual increase in the
Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers in
the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area
as reflected in the then-current April update; and (ii) three percent (3%) of the
then-current Police Protection Services Costs. The annual CPI used shall be as
determined by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, and may be obtained through the California Division of Labor Statistics
and Research (www.dir.ca.gov/dlsr as of June 2, 2008). If the foregoing index is
not available, the County Board shall select, and thereby shall be authorized to
use, a comparable index.

"Assessor's Parcel” means a lot or parcel shown in an Assessor's Parcel Map
with an assigned assessor's parcel number.

"Assessor's Parcel Map" means an official map of the Assessor of the County
designating parcels by assessor's parcel number.

"Base Year" means the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2009.

"CFD Administrator" means an official of the County, or his or her designee
(including, but not limited to, County officer(s), employee(s) and third-party
administrator(s)), responsible for determining the Special Tax Requirement and
providing for the levy and collection of the Special Taxes.

"CFD" means Community Facilities District No. 2006-01 (Police Protection
Services) of the County of Fresno.

"County" means the County of Fresno, California.

"County Board" means the Board of Supervisors of the County, acting as the
legislative body of the CFD.

"Developed Property" means all Taxable Property within the boundaries of the
CFD for which a permit for occupancy of a residential unit has been issued (i)
anytime on or prior to January 1, 2009 for the Base Year, and (ii) anytime after
January 1st and prior to May 1st (e.g., for the Base Year, this would be January 1,
2009 and May 1, 2009) preceding each Fiscal Year in which the Special Tax is
being levied. Once a Taxable Property has been designated as Developed
Property, it shall retain such status permanently (provided however, if the Land
Use Class(es) for any Developed Property subsequently changes, the Land Use
Class(es) for such Developed Property automatically shall change accordingly
pursuant to the rate and method of apportionment of the Special Tax, as
provided herein), and shall be subject to the Special Tax each Fiscal Year as
provided herein, unless such Taxable Property subsequently shall become and
retain such status as Tax-Exempt Property. There shall not be any proration or
reduction of the Special Tax levy for any Taxable Property, or refund of the
Special Tax for any Taxable Property, for any Fiscal Year in which any such
Taxable Property becomes Tax-Exempt Property.

"Escalation Factor Adjustment" means the calculation based on the following
formula: (1) calculate the annual increases of all of the applicable costs and
expenses for each of the prior two Fiscal Years plus the reasonably estimated
increase of the applicable costs and expenses for the then-current Fiscal Year;
(2) calculate the percentage of each of such increases of all of the applicable
costs and expenses in each of such Fiscal Years over each of the prior Fiscal
Years (collectively, the “Cumulative Increase”); (3) calculate the sum of the
Annual Escalation Factors for the prior two Fiscal Years plus the Annual
Escalation Factor for the then-current Fiscal Year (collectively, the “Cumulative
Annual Escalation Factor”); (3) if the Cumulative Increase is less than Cumulative
Annual Escalation Factor, then the difference thereof shall be the amount of the
Escalation Factor Adjustment; (4) if the Cumulative Increase is equal to or
greater than the Cumulative Annual Escalation Factor, then the amount of the
Escalation Factor Adjustment shall be zero.

"Fiscal Year" means the period starting July 1 and ending on the following
June 30.

"Land Use Class" means any of the classes listed in Table 1 of Section C,
below.

"Maximum Special Tax" means the maximum Special Tax, determined in
accordance with Section C, below, that may be levied in the CFD in any Fiscal
Year on any Assessor’s Parcel.

"Multi-Family Property" means all Assessor’s Parcels of Developed Property
within the boundaries of the CFD for which a building permit has been issued for
purposes of constructing a residential structure consisting of two or more
residential units that share common walls, including, but not limited to, duplexes,
triplexes, townhomes, condominiums, and apartment units.

"Non-Residential Property" means all Assessor’s Parcels of Developed
Property within the boundaries of the CFD for which a building permit has been
issued for a non-residential use and does not contain any residential units as
defined under Residential Property or Multi-Family Property.

"Property Owner Association Property" means any property within the
boundaries of the CFD that is owned by, or irrevocably dedicated as indicated in
an instrument recorded with the County Recorder to, a property owner
association, including any master or sub-association.

"Proportionately" means in a manner such that the ratio of the actual Special
Tax levy to the Maximum Special Tax is equal for all Assessor’s Parcels within
each Land Use Class.

"Public Property" means any property within the boundaries of the CFD that is,
at the time of the establishment of the CFD, and as determined by the CFD
Administrator, expected to be used for rights-of-way, parks, schools or any other
public purpose and is owned by or irrevocably offered for dedication to the
federal government, the State, the County or any other public agency, provided
however, that any property leased (or property in which there is a grant of a
possessory interest) by a public agency to a private entity or person and subject
to taxation under section 53340.1 of the Act, and any property described in
section 53317.3 or 53317.5 of the Act, shall not be considered Public Property
but shall be classified and taxed in accordance with its use. Once an Assessor’s
Parcel has been designated as Public Property, it shall retain such status
permanently, unless such Public Property subsequently shall become Taxable
Property.

"Police Protection Services Costs" means the actual and/or estimated costs
and expenses of the County Sheriffs Office to provide police protection services
within the CFD, including, but not limited to, (i) all salaries, wages and benefits of
all County sworn officers providing police protection services within the CFD, (ii)
all related equipment, vehicles, and supplies for all such services, and (iii) all
County overhead costs associated with providing or paying for all such services
(and all such related costs and expenses) within the CFD. The Special Tax
provides only partial funding for Police Protection Services Costs within the CFD.
On each July 1 following the Base Year, all of the foregoing costs and expenses
automatically shall be increased for each Fiscal Year in accordance with the
Annual Escalation Factor, provided however, on each July 1 for each third
subsequent Fiscal Year, commencing with Fiscal Year 2011-12, the Annual
Escalation Factor shall reduced by an Escalation Factor Adjustment, if any.

"Residential Property" means all Assessor’s Parcels of Developed Property
within the boundaries of the CFD for which a building permit has been issued for
purposes of constructing one residential unit.

"Special Tax" means the Special Tax to be levied in each Fiscal Year on each
Assessor’s Parcel of Developed Property within the boundaries of the CFD to

fund the Special Tax Requirement, and shall include Special Taxes levied or to
be levied under Sections C and D, below.

"Special Tax Requirement" means that amount required in any Fiscal Year for
the CFD to: (a) (i) pay for Police Protection Services Costs; and (ii) pay
reasonable Administrative Expenses; less (b) a credit for funds available, if any,
to reduce the annual Special Tax levy, as determined by the CFD Administrator.

"State" means the State of California.

"Taxable Property" means all of the Assessor's Parcels within the boundaries of
the CFD that are not exempt from the Special Tax pursuant to law or as defined
below.

"Tax-Exempt Property" means an Assessor's Parcel within the boundaries of
the CFD not subject to the Special Tax. Tax-Exempt Property only includes: (i)
Public Property, (ii) Non-Residential Property, and (iii) Property Owner
Association Property.

"Undeveloped Unit" means a building or structure for which a building permit
has been issued, and either (i) such building or structure has a value of less than
50% of the value of either (x) the existing residential unit on Residential Property,
or (y) the lowest valued existing unit (as calculated as a proportionate percentage
of the total building value) on Multi-Family Property, (ii) such building or structure
consists of less than 500 square feet, or (iii) notwithstanding the definitions of
Multi-Family Property and Residential Property, such building permit has been
issued for the reconstruction of a residential unit as a result of extraordinary
damage or destruction to such residential unit, such as fire, flood or earthquake,
and either (x) there has not yet been issued by the appropriate building official a
permit for occupancy of such residential unit by May 1st preceding the applicable
Fiscal Year in which the Special Tax is being levied, or (y) the appropriate
building official has not determined that such residential unit has been occupied
by a person as his or her dwelling as of May Is1 preceding the applicable Fiscal
Year in which the Special Tax is being levied. Any determination of the nature or
status of such buildings, structures, or residential units, or their values, sizes, and
uses shall be made by the CFD Administrator or his or her designee.

"Unit" means any residence in which a person or persons may live, and is not
considered to be for commercial or industrial use.

B.	ASSIGNMENT TO LAND USE CATEGORIES

Each Fiscal Year using the definitions above, all Taxable Property within the
boundaries of the CFD shall be classified as Developed Property. Developed
Property shall be further assigned to a Land Use Class as specified in Table 1 of
Section C, below, and shall be subject to Special Taxes pursuant to Sections C
and D below.

C.	MAXIMUM SPECIAL TAX RATES

1. Developed Property

TABLE 1

Maximum Special Tax Rates for Developed Property
(Commencing as of the Base Year,
and subject to increases in subsequent Fiscal Years,
as provided herein)

Community Facilities District No. 2006-01
(Police Protection Services)

Of the County Of Fresno

Land Use Class	Description	Maximum Special Tax Rate Per Unit
1	Residential Property	$497.82 per Unit
2	Multi-Family Property	$367.28 per Unit

On each July 1 following the Base Year, the Maximum Special Tax Rates
automatically shall be increased for each Fiscal Year in accordance with the
Annual Escalation Factor, provided however, on each July 1 for each third
subsequent Fiscal Year, commencing with Fiscal Year 2011-12, the Annual
Escalation Factor shall reduced by an Escalation Factor Adjustment, if any.

2.	Multiple Land Use Classes

In some instances an Assessor’s Parcel of Developed Property may
contain more than one Land Use Class. The Maximum Special Tax levied
on an Assessor’s Parcel shall be the sum of the Maximum Special Tax
levies that can be imposed on all Land Use Classes located on that
Assessor’s Parcel.

///

III

3.	Undeveloped Units and Tax-Exempt Property

No Special Tax shall be levied on Undeveloped Units or Tax-Exempt
Property.

D.	METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT OF THE SPECIAL TAX

Commencing with the Base Year, and for each following Fiscal Year, the CFD
Administrator shall calculate the Special Tax Requirement based on the Special
Tax Rate and Method of Apportionment of the CFD and levy the Special Tax until
the amount of the Special Tax levied equals the Special Tax Requirement. The
Special Tax shall be levied in the amount of the Special Tax Requirement each
Fiscal Year on each Assessor’s Parcel of Developed Property Proportionately,
but not more than 100% of the applicable Maximum Special Tax.

E.	APPEALS

Any taxpayer who believes that the amount of the Special Tax assigned to his or
her lot or parcel is in error may file a written notice with the CFD Administrator
appealing the levy of the Special Tax, provided that the taxpayer has fully paid
his or her Special Tax for such Parcel on or before the payment date established
for such Special Tax. Such notice is required to be filed with the CFD
Administrator during the Fiscal Year that the error is believed to have occurred.
The notice must specify the Parcel, the amount of the levy of the Special Tax,
and reason(s) why the taxpayer claims that the amount of the Special Tax is in
error.

The CFD Administrator or his or her designee will then promptly review the
appeal and, if necessary, meet with the taxpayer. If the CFD Administrator or his
or her designee agrees with the taxpayer that the amount of the Special Tax for
such Parcel should be changed, the Special Tax levy for such Parcel shall be
corrected accordingly and, if applicable in any case, a refund of such erroneous
amount collected shall be granted.

If the CFD Administrator or his or her designee disagrees with the taxpayer, and
the taxpayer is dissatisfied with such determination, the taxpayer shall have thirty
(30) calendar days, from the date that he or she receives notice of such
determination in which to appeal to the County Board by filing a written notice of
appeal with the Clerk to the County Board, provided that the taxpayer is current
in his or her payment of Special Taxes for such Parcel. The notice of appeal
must specify the Parcel, the amount of the levy of the Special Tax, the reason(s)
why the taxpayer disagrees with the CFD Administrator’s determination, and why
the taxpayer claims that the amount of the Special Tax is in error.

The County Board will hear the taxpayer’s appeal, and make a determination
whether to affirm, modify or reverse the determination of the CFD Administrator

or his or her designee. If the County Board agrees with the taxpayer that the
amount of the Special Tax for such Parcel should be changed, the Special Tax
levy for such Parcel shall be corrected accordingly and, if applicable in any case,
a refund of such erroneous amount collected shall be granted. Any such
determination of the County Board shall be provided to the taxpayer, and shall be
final and conclusive.

Any filing by a taxpayer of any notice of appeal with the CFD Administrator, or
any appeal with the Clerk to the County Board, shall be deemed to be made
when such notice of appeal is delivered to CFD Administrator, or when such
appeal is delivered to the Clerk to the County Board.

F.	MANNER OF COLLECTION

The Special Tax levied pursuant to section D, above, shall be collected in the
same manner as ordinary ad valorem property taxes are collected and shall be
subject to the same penalties and the same procedure, sale, and lien priority in
case of delinquency as is provided for ad valorem taxes; provided, however, the
CFD Administrator may directly bill the Special Tax, may collect Special Taxes at
a different time or in a different manner if necessary to meet the financial
obligations of the CFD or as otherwise determined appropriate by the CFD
Administrator.

G.	TERM OF SPECIAL TAX

The Special Tax shall be levied in perpetuity or until such time as the County
Board terminates the Special Tax.

-END-

Countywide CFD No. 2006-01 - RMA for Annexation Territory (commencing FY 2007-08)/g

Community Facilities District No. 2006-01
(Police Protection Services)
of the County of Fresno