	v LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION  ANALYSIS OF THE PROPOSED INCORPORATION OF ROSSMOOR  The proposed incorporation of Rossmoor comprises approximately 988 acres and is generally bounded by the City of Seal Beach to the south and southeast, the City of Los Alamitos to the north and northeast and the City of Long Beach to the west. The incorporation proceedings were initiated by resolution of the Rossmoor Community Services District. If approved, the effective date of incorporation of Rossmoor will be January 1, 2009. The city’s sphere of influence will be coterminous with the proposed incorporation boundaries. The reasons for the incorporation are:  1.	To capture or retain, for local use, revenues generated by the proposed city which are now distributed countywide.  2.	To provide residents with local control over land use, planning, traffic flow and other regulatory matters.  3.	To provide a higher level of municipal services than currently received, such as police protection.  4.	To permit voters of the proposed city to elect representatives to the city council allowing for more accessible and responsive representation to the citizenry.  Services to be provided by the new city wilf include, but are not limited to: general government; law enforcement and traffic control; planning, building inspection and code enforcement; animal control; street construction and maintenance; local park acquisition, improvement and maintenance; street lighting; and solid waste disposal: Voter approval of the incorporation authorizes the new city to continue all existing taxes, assessments, and fees imposed by the County of Orange at the same rate as imposed by the County and using the same manner of collection.  For the incorporation to be implemented, voters will also have to approve at least one of two utility user tax alternatives: one imposes a 7% utility user tax on natural gas, water and electricity; the alternative imposes a 9% utility user tax on natural gas, water and electricity.  A comprehensive fiscal analysis of the proposed incorporation was performed. The results of the analysis estimated that implementation of a 7% utility user tax would result in an annual average operating General Fund surplus for the City of $141,169 during FY2009/2010 through FY 2017/2018. Implementation of a 9% utility user tax would result in an annual average operating General Fund surplus of $459,305 during FY 2009/2010 through FY 2017/2018. An appropriations (Gann) limit of $4,507,324 has been determined for the proposed incorporation.  Voters will elect a five member city council which shall appoint the City Manager, City Clerk, City Treasurer and City Attorney. Voters will also decide whether members of the city council in future elections shall be elected at large or by district.		
	r		
	-	-	!

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

YES ON INCORPORATION - IMPROVE SERVICES AND THE
QUALITY OF LIFE IN ROSSMOOR

We urge you to vote YES on Cityhood for Rossmoor to create a stable,
viable City, improve local services and the quality of life and control our own
destiny. This is not more government - it replaces County bureaucrats with
local control.

Rossmoor has no control over its most Important services, because they
are provided by the County. The County can - and has promised to - cut
back services without our say and has considered increasing taxes to pay
for the remaining seivices. In short: taxation without representation.
Current services are inadequate and unacceptable—some emergency
calls take fifteen minutes or more. You must travel to Santa Ana for a permit
and "our" building inspector travels from Laguna Hills (at our cost). The
County has made it clear that services will be further reduced if we do not
incorporate. With incorporation, law enforcement, traffic enforcement,
animal control, code enforcement and other services will be Improved.

By enacting a 7% UUT, we will have a viable, financially sound City, at an
average monthly cost of about $16 per household. The new City will have a
strong and diverse revenue stream; Including property taxes and sales
taxes (more per capita than many successful cities), plus UUT arid vehicle
license fee revenues. These revenues will generate healthy budget
reserves (as determined by four independent studies) for the next ten
years.

In order for Rossmoor to become a city, at least one of the two utility user tax
(UUT) measures on the ballot must pass. We urge you to vote YES on both
UUT measures.	•

Please join us and VOTE YES on Incorporation so that Rossmoor can
finally take control of its future.

s/ Eric Christensen

Committee for Rossmoor Incorporation Nowl
s/ Bill Gekier

Committee for Rossmoor Incorporation Now!
s/ Margrit Kendrick

Committee for Rossmoor Incorporation Nowl
$/ Russ Lightcap

Committee for Rossmoor Incorporation Now)
a/ Mark Nltlkman

Committee for Rossmoor Incorporation Nowl

PROPONENTS ARGUMENTS ARE MISLEADING.

Incorporation Means More Bureaucracy

•	Incorporation doesn't mean local control. It means more bureaucracy
and more politicians.

•	It means being controlled by both County and City bureaucrats

•	More politicians and more bureaucracy means more taxes

Incorporation Means Taxes. Taxes and More Taxes

•	Services will not be improved by Incorporation.

» Emergency response times are now consistent with neighboring
communities.

•	Satisfaction with County services, particularly public safety, is extremely
high.

■	County cannot refuse services to Rossmoor.

■	The cost to provide existing services through a new City is nearly double
the cost of providing the same services through the County.

•	Even with increased utility taxes, many municipal officials believe
Rossmoor will not have adequate f unding to provide basic city services.

•	With limited source of revenue and zero growth potential, additional
taxes, fees and assessments on residents will be the only way to fund
services.

•	Your new taxes will be paying the salaries of both County and City
bureaucrats.

•	Every Rossmoor resident will face uncertain financial liability with limited
and non-expansible resources.

•	Expansion of RCSO powers remain a viable option to enhance local
services.

•	Cityhood will do nothing to improve your quality of life. It wifi only add
taxes and fees.

Vote NO to More Politicians
Vote NO to More Bureaucrats
Vote NO on INCORPORATION
Vote NO on BOTH UTILITY TAXES
Vote NO on ALL MEASURES

s/James O. Alexander

Rossmoor Preservation Committee

s/ Shirley A. Bailey, Treasurer

Rossmoor Preservation Committee

s/ Kevin P. Boylan	•

Rossmoor Preservation Committee

s/ La Deile L. Clark

Rossmoor Preservation Committee

s/John H. Hunt

Rossmoor Preservation Committee

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U  lt‘s Not Broken - Don't Fix It!  The Facts You Need to Know About Rossmaor Incorooratlon  •	The County cannot refuse to provide services to Rossmoor.  •	Any future issues with services can be addressed through expansion of RCSD powers.  •	Lacking a strong base of revenue, significant additional taxes & fees on residents will be required to fund additional services.  •	A new city will add more bureaucracy and be more expensive to operate.  •	The worst possible time to incorporate is now, during a recession and an uncertain economic future.  Taxes. Taxes and Mora Taxes  •	A NEW 7% Utility Tax costs as much as $600 for some and up to $800 with a 9% Tax.  •	Requiring a utility tax as a condition of incorporation is unprecedented. Only 1/4 of cities in CA have imposed utility taxes on fheir residents & never at incorporation.  I • Governmental finance officers consider utility tax as a tax of last resort and an indication of financial weakness.  •	Based on analysis by County staff, a 7% utility tax represents nearly a 100% increase In the cost for the same safety services the County currently provides. 9% represents a 130% increase in the cost for the same safety services.  •	Supervisor Moorlach's support for a 9% tax recognizes that a 7% tax would be insufficient to cover the cost for services after incorporation.  •	Since Rossmoor residents will still pay County taxes, we will be paying twice for the services we are now receiving.  I * Due to our limited sources of revenue and zero growth potential, new ] taxes fees and assessments on Rossmoor residents will be the only way to fund future services and UNFUNDED State requirements.  Vote No to More Bureaucracvi  Vote No to Higher Taxes?  Vote No On All Measures?  s/ James O. Alexander  Rossmoor Preservation Committee  I s/Shirley A. Bailey, Treasurer I Rossmoor Preservation Committee  j s/Kevin P. Boylan 1 Rossmoor Preservation Committee  s/La DeileL Ctark 1 Rossmoor Preservation Committee  sj John H. Hunt  Rossmoor Preservation Committee	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U TAKE CONTROL OF YOUR FUTURE Don’t Be Misled by the Unsupported Fears of the Opponents?  The truth about Rossmoor incorporation is simple: It's not just possible,  it's overwhelmingly the best decision for Rossmoor!  •	The County can and said it will reduce services to Rossmoor if we don't incorporate, because they're paying $592,000 more than they’re collecting.  •	The RCSD can take over some, but not all, future services, but at a coat to taxpayers In excess of the Utility Tax, without the benefits of being a city.  •	A new City means LESS bureaucracy—it eliminates County municipal infrastructure.  •	The Utility Tax is a well recognized municipal financing tool, used by both Seal Beach and Los Alamitos.  •	The new City will receive significantly enhanced law and traffic . enforcement, as well as improved code enforcement, permitting and animal control.  •	With the 7% Utility Tax, an average of just $16.00 a month per household, the new City will have fully adequate and generous 40% plus reserves and 10% contingencies.  •	Rossmoor residents WONT pay twice for the same services. The County is transferring our property taxes and other revenues to Rossmoor.  •	After incorporation, we wont be liable for any new taxes unless we vote for them. And we don’t heed them. Four leading, Independent financial experts have said so. The opponents have no facts or financial authorities to support their fears.  VOTE YES ON INCORPORATION AND, TO AVOID A SPLIT VOTE,  BOTH UTILITY TAX MEASURES SO ROSSMOOR CAN FINALLY TAKE  CONTROL OF ITS FUTURE.  s/ Erwin Anlsman  Committee for Rossmoor incorporation Now!  s/ Richard Niemeyer  Committee for Rossmoor incorporation Now!  s/ Michael Sanders  Committee for Rossmoor Incorporation Now!  s/ Shawn Wilson  Committee for Rossmoor Incorporation Now!  s/ Charles A. Woodfin  Committee for Rossmoor Incorporation Nowl
		

SCHOOL

jK-Los Alamitos Unified School District, Los Alamitos School
(Repair and improvement Measure
To maintain excellent local schools, improve educational
opportunities and ensure students gain the skills needed to
succeed, shall Los Alamitos Unified School District repair, and
upgrade, and equip outdated classrooms, science labs, libraries,
restrooms, and technology infrastructure, improve fire, safety and
security, improve student access to technology and construct
additional facilities by issuing $126,000,000 of bonds at legal rates,
with mandatory annual audits and independent citizen oversight?

3 Bonds - Yes
3 Bonds -No

CITY

J*;f U-Praposed City in the Rossmoor Area

Shall the Order adopted on May 22,2008, by the Local Agency
Formation Commission, ordering the incorporation of the territory
described and designated in the Order as the City of Rossmoor be
confirmed subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Order,
including a utility users tax as described in the Order?

IB

Shall the Rossmoor City Council levy and collect a utility users tax
on electricity, natural gas and water of 7% to fund general City
services, including, but not limited to, police, street maintenance,
senior citizen, library and parks and recreation services as
described In the Order adopted on May 22,2008 by the Local
Agency Formation Commission?

Shall the Rossmoor City Council levy and collect a utility users tax
on electricity, natural gas and water of 9% to fund general City
services, including, but not limited to, police, street maintenance, ,
i senior citizen, library and parks and recreation services as
described in the Order adopted on May 22,2008 by the Local
[ Agency Formation Commission?

_Yas_

No