n

K-,.

*

*

Sample Ballot

& Voter’s Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED PRESIDENTIAL GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2008

Last day to register to vote in this election
OCTOBER 20, 2008

For Voting Information Call 488-3246

www.co.fresno.ca.us or www.sos.ca.gov

Boleta de Muestra

y Folleto del Elector

ELECCION GENERAL PRESIDENCY CONSOLIDADA

MARTES, 4 DE NOVIEMBRE DEL 2008

MARK YOUR VOTES AND USE THIS AT THE POLLS

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

IF VOTING BY MAIL, YOUR VOTED BALLOT MUST BE RECEIVED
BY FRESNO COUNTY ELECTION OFFICIALS
NO LATER THAN 8:00 P.M. ON ELECTION DAY.

El plazo para empadronarse a votar en esta election vence
EL DIA 20 DE OCTUBRE DEL 2008

Para informes tocantes al proceso de votacion,
favor de llamar al telefono 488-3246

Compiled by Victor E. Salazar
Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters

MARQUE SUS VOTOS EN ESTA BOLETA DE MUESTRA Y USELA EN SU SITIO
DE VOTACION.

EL SITIO DE VOTACION DONDE DEBE USTED ECHAR SU VOTO SE INDICA AL DORSO.

LAS URNAS ELECTORALES SE ABREN A LAS 7:00 DE LA MANANA Y
SE CIERRAN A LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE.

SI USTED VOTA POR CORREO, SU BOLETA YA VOTADA DEBE DE LLEGAR A MANOS
DE LOS OFICIALES DE LAS ELECCIONES DEL CONDADO DE FRESNO A MAS
TARDAR PARA LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE DEL DIA DE LAf LECCldN.

Boleta compilada por Victor E. Salazar, Oficial del Registro Civil/Empadronador de
Electores del Condado de Fresno.

S:sSoMcomt

Co s%fe°tuadoun
*,sm

T. CITY OF KERMAN TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX MEASURE

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

ORDINANCE NO. 08-

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF KERMAN
PROPOSING A VOTER INITIATIVE TO ADO CHAPTER 5.50 TO
TITLE 5 OF THE CITY OF KERMAN MUNICIPAL CODE IMPOSING
A TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX AND
PROVIDING FOR COLLECTION OF SAID TAX

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF KERMAN as follows:

Section 1: Pursuant to Section 2 of Article 13C of the California Constitution the
City Council may submit to the electorate a proposal for the imposition of a general tax,
and said tax may only be imposed if approved by a majority of the voters voting at a
general election. The City Council therefore proposes for the approval of the electorate
the text of an ordinance as set forth in Section 2. The proposed ordinance, if approved
by the voters according to law, shall be added to the Kerman Municipal Code and shall
be known as the Transient Occupancy Tax.

Section 2: The people of the City of Kerman do ordain as follows:

Chapter 5.50 is hereby added to Title 5 of the City of Kerman Municipal Code to read
as follows:

Chapter 5.50 Transient Occupancy Tax

Section 5.50.010	Definitions.
Section 5.50.020	Tax Imposed
Section 5.50.030	Exemptions
Section 5.50.040	Operator’s Duties
Section 5.50.050	Registration of Hotels/Motels
Section 5.50.060	Reporting, Remitting
Section 5.50.070	Penalties and Interest
Section 5.50.080	Failure to Collect and Report Tax. Determination of Tax by City Clerk
Section 5.50.090	Liability of Successor for Failure to Withhold - Notice of Amount Due
Section 5.50.100	Duties of Successor of Operator
Section 5.50.110	Appeals
Section 5.50.120	Records
Section 5.50.130	Refunds
Section 5.50.140	Actions to Collect
Section 5.50.150	Violation - Penalty
Section 5.50.160	Severability and Amendment
Section 5.50.170	Effective Date

Section 5.50.010 Definitions. Except where the context otherwise requires, the
Definitions given in this Section govern the construction of this chapter:

A.	Person. “Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation,
estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.

B.	Hotel. “Hotel” means:

(a) Any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling,
lodging, or sleeping purposes and includes any hotel, inn, tourist

home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house,
rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public or private club,
mobile home or house trailer at a fixed location or other similar
structure or portion thereof; and

(b) Any portion of any real property occupied, intended to be occupied,
or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes in any recreational vehicle, trailer, trailer coach,
house car or motor home, and includes campgrounds and recreation
vehicle parks.

C.	Occupancy. “Occupancy” means: The use or of, possession, of the right
to use or possess any space, area, or room(s) or portion thereof in any
hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes.

D.	Transient. “Transient” means any person who exercises occupancy or is
entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access,
license or other agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar
days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such
person so occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient
until the period of thirty (30) days has expired unless there is an
agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant providing for
a longer period of occupancy.

E.	Rent. “Rent” means the consideration charged, whether or not received,
for the occupancy of space in a hotel, valued in money, whether to be
received in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash,
credits and property and services of any kind or nature, without any
deduction therefrom whatsoever.

F.	Operator. “Operator” means the person who is proprietor of the hotel,
whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, subleasee, mortgagee in
possession, licensee or any other capacity. Where the operator performs
his functions through a managing agent of any type or character other
than an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an operator
for the purposes of this Chapter and shall have the same duties and
liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter
by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be
considered to be compliant by both.

5.50.020. Tax Imposed. For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each
transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of eight percent (8%) of the
rent charged by the operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the
city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The transient
shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is
paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each
installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient ceasing to occupy space in
the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the City
Clerk may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the City Finance Department.

5.50.030. Exemptions. No tax shall be Imposed upon: a) Any person as to
whom, when in the performance of that person’s official duties, or any occupancy as to
which, it is beyond the power of the City to impose the tax herein provided; or b) Any
officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express
provision of federal law or international treaty.

No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefore made at the time rent is
collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the City Clerk. The
transient shall be required to provide the necessary proof of exemption. Governments
and governmental agencies are generally not exempt from taxation. A copy of eligible

PR-9031-1

N FR 132-019

exemption claims shall be submitted monthly at the same time as the required tax
return reporting.

5.50.040. Operator’s Duties. Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by
this Chapter to the same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from
every transient. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the
rent charged and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the operator.
No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or
indirectly, that the tax of any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator,
or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded except
in the manner hereinafter provided.

5.50.050. Registration of Hotels/Motels. Within thirty (30) days after
commencing business, each Operator of any hotel/motel renting occupancy to
transients shall register said hotel/motel with the City Clerk and obtain a “transient
occupancy” registration certificate” to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on
the premises. Said certificate shall, among other things, state the following:

a)	Name of the operator.

b)	Address of the Hotel/Motel.

c)	Date upon which the certificate was issued.

d)	“This transient occupancy registration certificate signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the
City of Kerman Municipal Code pursuant to the Uniform Transient
Occupancy Tax by registering with the City Clerk for the purpose of
collecting from transients the transient occupancy tax and remitting
said tax to the City Finance Department. This certificate does not
authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct
any lawful business in an unlawful manner, nor to operate a
hotel/motel without strictly complying with all local applicable laws,
including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any board,
commission, department, or office of this City. This certificate does
not constitute a permit.”

5.50.060. Reporting, Remitting. On or before the tenth (10th) day of each
calendar month, each operator shall make a return to the City declaring the total rents
charged and received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies for the
month next preceding the previous month. At the time the return is filed, the full
amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the City. The City Clerk may establish
shorter reporting periods for any certificate holder if deemed necessary in order to
insure collection of the tax which may require further information in the return. Returns
and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All
taxes collected by operators pursuant to this Article shall be held in trust for the
account of the City until payment thereof is made to the City Clerk.

5.50.070. Penalties and Interest.

a)	Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax
imposed by this Article within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten
percent (10%) of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.

Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the City. Any such
tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City shall be
deemed a debt owed by the operator to the City. Any person owing money to
the City under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action
brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount.

b)	Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any
delinquent remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the
date on which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second
delinquency penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax in addition
to the amount of the tax and the ten percent (10%) penalty first imposed.

c)	Fraud. If the City Clerk determines that the nonpayment of
remittance due under this Article is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five
percent (25%) of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to
the penalties stated in subsections a) and (b) of this section.

d)	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this Article shall pay interest at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax from the
date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.

e)	Penalties, Interest merged with tax. Every penalty imposed and
such interest as accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a
part of the tax herein required to be paid.

5.50.080. Failure to Collect and Report Tax; Determination of Tax by City
Clerk. If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect said tax and to make, within the time
provided in this Chapter, any report and remittance of said tax or any portion thereof
required by this Chapter, the City Clerk shall proceed in such manner deemed best to
obtain facts and information on which to base the estimate of the tax due. As soon as
the City Clerk shall procure such facts and information on which to base the
assessment of any tax imposed by this Chapter and payable by any operator who has
failed or refused to collect the same and make such report and remittances, the City
Clerk shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax, interest
and penalties provided by this Chapter. In case such determination is made, the City
Clerk shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by
depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so
assessed at the last known address. Such operator may within ten (10) days after the
serving of mailing of such notice make application in writing to the City Clerk for a
hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the operator for the hearing is not
made within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by
the City Clerk shall be final and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If such
application is made, the City Clerk shall give not less than five (5) days written notice in
the manner prescribed herein to the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed
in said notice why said amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax,
interest and penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence
why such specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such
hearing, the City Clerk shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall
thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed herein of such
determination and the amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The amount
determined to be due shall be payable within fifteen (15) days, unless an appeal is
taken as provided in Section 5.50.110.

5.50.090. Liability of Successor for Failure to Withhold - Notice of
Amount Due. If the successor to the business fails to withhold a portion of the
purchase price for payment of the tax owing as of the close of escrow for the transfer of
ownership of any hotel, said successor shall be liable to the City for the payment of the
amount owing at the close of escrow. Within thirty (30) days after receiving written
request from the successor for a tax clearance certificate stating that no tax or penalty
is due, the City Clerk shall either issue the certificate or mail notice to the successor at
its address as it appears on the records of the City Clerk of the estimated amount of
the tax and penalty that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate.

5.50.100. Duty of Successor of Operator. If an operator who is liable for
any tax or penalties under this Chapter sells or otherwise disposes of his/her business,

PR-9031-2

N FR 132-020

his/her successor shall notify the City Clerk of the date of the sale at least thirty (30)
days before the date of sale, or if the decision to sell was made less than thirty (30)
days prior to the actual sale, then immediately shall withhold a sufficient portion of the
purchase price to equal the amount of such tax or penalty until the selling operator
produces a receipt from the collector showing that the tax or penalty has been paid or a
tax clearance certificate from the City Clerk stating that no tax or penalty is due. If the
seller does not present a receipt or tax clearance certificate within thirty (30) days after
such successor commences to conduct business, the successor shall deposit the
withheld amount with the City Clerk pending settlement of the account of the seller.

5.50.110. Appeal. Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the City Clerk
with respect to the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the
City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days of the
serving or mailing of the determination of tax due. The Council shall fix a time and
place for hearing such appeal and the City Clerk shall give notice in writing to such
operator at the last known place of address. The findings of the Council shall be final
and conclusive and shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed above
for service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due
and payable upon the service of notice.

5.50.120. Records. It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the
collection and payment to the City of any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and
preserve, for a period of three (3) years all records as may be necessary to determine
the amount of such tax as the operator may have been liable for the collection of said
payment to the City, which records the Collector shall have the right to inspect at all
reasonable times.

5.50.130. Refunds, a) Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty
has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the City under this Chapter it may be refunded as provided in
Subsections (b) and (c) of this Section provided a claim in writing therefore, stating
under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed
with the City Clerk within three £3) years of the date of payment. The claim shall be on
forms furnished by the City Clerk.

b)	An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected
and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally
collected or received when it is established in a manner prescribed by the City Clerk
that the person from whom the tax has been collected was not a transient, provided,
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the
tax so collected has either been refunded to the transient or credited to rent
subsequently payable by the transient to the operator.

c)	A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than once
or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City by filing a claim in the
manner provided in Subsection (a) of this Section, but only when the tax was paid by
the transient directly to the City Clerk, or when the transient having paid the tax to the
operator, established to the satisfaction of the City Clerk that the transient has been
unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.

d)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement.

5.50.140 Actions to Collect. Any tax required to be paid by any transient
under the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to
the City. Any such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City
shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the City. Any person owing money to
the City under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the
name of the City of Kerman for the recovery of such amount.

5.50.150 Violation - Penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any operator or other person who fails
or refuses to register as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made,
or who fails to refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the
City Clerk, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any report or claim
who makes any false or fraudulent report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the
determination of any amount due required by this Chapter to be made, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.

5.50.160. Severability and Amendment. If any section, sub-section,
subdivision, paragraph, clause or phrase in this ordinance, or any part thereof, is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional , such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining sections or portions of this ordinance or any part thereof. The
City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, sub-section,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, sub-sections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases may be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

The City Council shall have the power to amend any provision of this Chapter by vote
of four-fifths of its members, excepting that an amendment increasing the rate of the
tax or expanding the class of those subject to the tax shall require the approval of a
majority of the electorate.

5.50.170. Effective Date. This Chapter shall be considered adopted upon the
date that the City Council declares that a majority of the voters voting at the general
election in November, 2008 has voted in favor of the proposition adopting this Chapter,
and shall go into effect 10 days after said date pursuant to Section 9217 of the
Elections Code, except that the tax imposed by this Chapter shall become operative
and be imposed on and after January 1, 2009.

Section 3: The proposed ordinance set forth in Section 2 shall be submitted
as a ballot measure to the electors of the City of Kerman at the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008. If not less than a majority of the voters voting at said
election vote in its favor, the ordinance shall become a valid and binding ordinance of
the City. The ordinance shall be considered adopted upon the date that the City
Council declares that a majority of the voters voting at the general election in
November, 2008 has voted in favor of the proposition adopting this Chapter and shall
be effective as stated in Section 5.50.170 of the proposed ordinance.

Section 4: The Clerk of the City of Kerman, the City Attorney and public
officials providing elections services are hereby authorized, requested and directed to
prepare all documents, notices, or other instruments, and to perform all other acts
necessary or convenient to place the proposed ordinance on the ballot for the
November 4, 2008 general election.

Section 5:	Sections 1, 3, 4 and 5 of this ordinance shall take effect

immediately upon passage as an urgency ordinance pursuant to Government Code
Section 36937, as it relates to a pending election. Publication of the same or a
summary of the same within fifteen days of passage pursuant to the laws of the State
of California in the Kerman News, a newspaper of general circulation published and
circulated in the City of Kerman is hereby ordered and directed.

The foregoing ordinance was first read at a regular meeting of the City

Council of the City of Kerman, held on the________ day of ____________________, 2008 and

finally read and adopted after a duly noticed public hearing at a regular meeting of said
Council held on the________day of_________, 2008 by the following vote:

PR-9031-3

N FR 132-021

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Initiative Measure to be Submitted Directly to the Voters

The City Attorney for the City of Kerman has prepared the following title and summary
of the chief purpose and points of the proposed measure:

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF KERMAN
TO ADD CHAPTER 5.50 TO TILE 5 OF THE CITY OF KERMAN MUNICIPAL CODE
ESTABLISHING A TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

This measure, if approved by a majority of the voters voting in the City of Kerman’s
November, 2008 General Election, would establish a Transient Occupancy Tax in the
City of Kerman by adding Chapter 5.50 to the City of Kerman Municipal code.

A Transient Occupancy Tax (“TOT”) is also known as a “room tax”, “hotel/motel tax” or
“bed tax." A TOT is collected by a hotel, motel or other business offering dwelling,
lodging or sleeping accommodations as an additional charge to its overnight guests
who stay for a period shorter than 30 consecutive days.

Many local cities and counties already impose a TOT, and the amount of their tax
ranges from 4% to 10% of the room rental rate and reportedly helps pay for the public
services and facilities that out of town visitors use when they stay in those cities and
counties.

The TOT proposed by this ordinance would establish the tax as 8% of the room rate,
and could not be changed except by the voters of Kerman. In addition, only the voters
could expand the class of persons subject to the TOT. The City Council would have the
power to change other provisions of this ordinance by a four-fifths vote.

This measure would require the operators of hotels, motels and similar lodgings to
register with the City of Kerman and make monthly reports and payments of the TOT
collected. The measure establishes procedures for proper record-keeping and
collection of the TOT. If approved by the voters, the City would begin collecting the
TOT in January, 2009.

This measure is not expected to have any impact on the physical or business
environment, and its fiscal effect would be to produce revenue for the City’s General
Fund.

si Mark Blum
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

The Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT), or “Hotel Tax,” is an 8% fee that will be added to
the nightly room rate charged to guests in hotels and motels located in Kerman. With
the possibility of a second local hotel/motel on the horizon, now would be the time to
initiate a TOT.

The TOT ensures that future hotel visitors who travel city streets, frequent Kerman
restaurants and retail areas, and rely daily on Kerman’s police and other city services
pay their fair share for local services and maintenance.

If approved, Kerman's TOT revenues will go into the City’s general fund and offset not
only the costs associated with visitors, but also bolster City programs in the areas of
public safety, community policing, graffiti removal, street maintenance, parks and
recreation, code enforcement, and capital improvements.

Facts to consider:

1)	This is NOT a tax that residents will have to pay.

2)	This Measure sets a TOT rate of 8% that is within the average rate used by
most area cities.

3)	Approving this TOT Measure will help ensure that visitors to Kerman pay their
fair share for City services they use and impact while staying in town - and
even they will not have to pay the tax after the first 30 days.

4)	This TOT would require a simple majority vote of the registered voters in
Kerman.

This is truly an issue of fairness, equity and sustainability of our valued community.
Please vote YES on this TOT Measure to help your community have safer streets,
neighborhoods, and more recreational opportunities.

Remember, a NO vote on this Measure will mean that we lose out on an important
revenue source that could help pay for public safety services and enhance other city
services for our families.

si Michael W. Teixeira
Recreation Commission Chair

si Keith B. Williams
Pastor

si Dolores Amaro
Resident

si Phil Suson
Teacher

*• -J

NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED AGAINST THIS MEASURE

PR-9031-4

N FR 132-022