OUTSTANDING TEACHERS FOR ALL OAKLAND STUDENTS ACT MEASURE N	
■k | MEASURE N: “To attract and l\l retain highly qualified and creden- 1 tialed teachers for Oakland’s Dis- trict-run public schools, and to support successful educational programs at Oakfr charter schools, shall Oakland Unified Scl levy $10 per parcel per month ($120 per years with an exemption for low-incom mandatory annual audits, an independe oversight committee, and all money spen Oakland schools and all Oakland students?	YES
	NO
	tnd’s public tool District year) for 10 e residents, nt citizens’ it to benefit

income from all sources for the previous calendar year is
at or below the income level qualifying as “very low
income” for a family of such size under Section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C.A. Section
1437. Real property otherwise exempted from taxation
under California laws is also exempt from the special tax.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this
measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail,
and the Oakland Unified School District will not be autho-
rized to levy the special tax.
s/RICHARD E. WINNIE
County Counsel

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE N

ANALYSIS BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY COUNSEL
OF AN OAKLAND UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE N
Measure N, an Oakland Unified School District (“Dis-
trict”) special parcel tax measure, seeks voter approval to
authorize the District to levy a ten-year special parcel tax
in the amount of $120 per year on each parcel of taxable
real property beginning July 1, 2009, to fund the programs
set forth in the measure.

A school district has the authority to levy special taxes
upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the spe-
cial tax proposal pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 of
Article XIIIA and Section 2 of Article XIII C of the Cali-
fornia Constitution and sections 50075-50077, 50079 and
53722 of the California Government Code.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this
measure vote for approval, the funding revenue is to be
used for the specific purposes set forth in the full text of
the measure printed in this sample ballot. The measure
allocates 85% of the tax proceeds to attract and retain
qualified and credentialed school teachers by offering
compensation that is competitive with other Bay Area
school districts, and allocates 15% of the tax proceeds to
support education programs at Oakland’s public charter
schools. The measure further provides that the monies col-
lected shall be accounted for separately and shall be
expended only for those specific purposes. A citizens’
oversight committee will ensure that the special tax
monies are spent only for their authorized purposes.

If the measure passes, a special tax will be imposed
annually in the amount of $120 per year on each parcel of
taxable real property beginning July 1, 2009 and continu-
ing until June 30, 2019. The tax will be collected by the
Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time
and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are
collected. Upon application to the District, an exemption
may be granted to low-income owners of single family
units. To qualify for the low-income exemption, such
owners shall reside in the single family residential units
and demonstrate for each year that their combined family

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Every child deserves a great teacher. Excellent teachers
help our children graduate with the skills necessary to suc-
ceed in college, career, and life. Most experts agree that
teacher quality is the most important factor in student
achievement.

Voting YES ON N will ensure that we have a quality
teacher with the proper qualifications, training, and sup-
port in every Oakland classroom.

Oakland loses 300 of its best teachers every year.

Salaries for beginning teachers in Oakland are at least
$15,000 less than neighboring school districts. The high
cost of living in the Bay Area and higher salaries in nearby
school districts cause teachers to leave Oakland schools
and makes it difficult to compete for the best teachers.
Measure N will allow Oakland to be more competitive
with surrounding districts in attracting and retaining the
best teachers.

Measure N will also provide funding to support Oakland’s
charter schools. Over 7,500 Oakland students (15%)
attend charter schools. These schools provide specialized
instruction and alternatives for Oakland students.

Measure N will cost just $10 per month. Every penny will
stay in Oakland to support teachers and quality education-
al programs. None of the money will go towards adminis-
trator salaries. An independent Citizens’ Oversight com-
mittee will ensure the funds are spent appropriately and as
promised to voters.

An exemption is available for low-income residents to
make sure this measure is not a burden on those who can-
not afford it.

Measure N provides locally controlled funding at a time
when Sacramento is slashing education budgets. None of
this money can be taken away by the State.

Voting Yes on Measure N will allow us to attract and retain
the qualified and experienced teachers our children need.
Without Measure N we will continue to lose our best
teachers to other communities.

Please vote Yes on N.
s/Jerry Brown
Attorney General
s/Noel Gallo
Parent/School Board Member
s/Wandra J. Boyd
Parent, Skyline High School
s/Hattie M. Tate
Principal, Dewey High School
s/Greg Klein
Teacher, Oakland Unified

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N WAS
SUBMITTED.

OKSM-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N

“OUTSTANDING TEACHERS FOR ALL
OAKLAND STUDENTS ACT”

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the
“Outstanding Teachers For All Oakland Students Act” or
as “Measure N”.

FINDINGS

The Oakland Unified School District (“the District”) is
committed to attracting and retaining the very best teach-
ers by offering compensation that is competitive with
other Bay Area school districts.

The District is determined to improve the quality and
excellence provided to all students in all public schools
and public educational programs throughout the District,
including students who attend public charter schools in the
District.

Additional sources of funding are needed to continue
meeting the educational needs of all of the students in all
public schools and public educational programs through-
out the District.

TERMS OF THE
OUTSTANDING TEACHERS FOR ALL
OAKLAND STUDENTS TAX
Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of
those voting on this measure, the District shall be autho-
rized to and shall levy a qualified special tax of $120 per
year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District,
for a term of ten years, commencing July 1, 2009.

The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to
as the “Outstanding Teachers for all Oakland Students
Tax”. Proceeds of the Outstanding Teachers for all Oak-
land Students Tax shall be authorized to be used (i) to
attract and retain highly qualified and credentialed teach-
ers in District-run schools by offering compensation that is
competitive with other Bay Area school districts, and (ii)
to support successful educational programs at Oakland’s
public charter schools. Tax proceeds shall be allocated in
each year collected to the authorized purposes in the fol-
lowing proportion: teacher compensation at District-run
schools: 85%; charter school programs: 15%.

Low-Income Exemption. An exemption from this tax
shall be made for owners of single family residential units
in which they reside whose combined family income from
all sources for the previous calendar year is at or below the
income level qualifying as “very low income” for a family
of such size under Section 8 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937,42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 and following for
each year. Owners must apply for this exemption annually
by petition to the Office of the Chief Financial Officer of
the District in the manner and at the time set forth in pro-
cedures established by the District. Such petitions shall be
on forms available from the Chief Financial Officer’s
office and must provide information sufficient to verify
income including, but not limited to, federal income tax
returns and W-2 forms of owner-occupants.

ACCOT TNTABTT TTY PROVISIONS
Independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee. The State
Administrator or Board of Education shall establish an

independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee to ensure that
proceeds of the Outstanding Teachers for all Oakland Stu-
dents Tax are spent only for the purposes named in this
measure.

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Out-
standing Teachers for all Oakland Students Tax, the State
Administrator shall cause an account to be established for
deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the
Outstanding Teachers for all Oakland Students Tax remain
unexpended, the State Administrator or the Superintendent
of the District shall cause a report to be prepared no later
than December 31 of each year, commencing December
31, 2009, stating (1) the amount of Outstanding Teachers
for all Oakland Students Tax revenues received and
expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or
description of any programs funded from proceeds of the
tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year,
or other appropriate annual period, as the State Adminis-
trator or the Superintendent shall determine, and may be
incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or
other appropriate routine report.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the
measure shall constitute the specific purposes of the Out-
standing Teachers for all Oakland Students Tax, and pro-
ceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

T EVY AND COT T ECTTON

The Outstanding Teachers for all Oakland Students
Tax shall be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-
Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner and
shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem prop-
erty taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector.
Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate
for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as
any unit of real property in the District which receives a
separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All
property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are
levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also
be exempt from the Outstanding Teachers for all Oakland
Students Tax in such year. In addition, parcels owned and
occupied by individuals or families with very low income
may be exempt from the 2008 Education Parcel Tax as
described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels
which the District has approved for a Low-Income
Exemption from the Outstanding Teachers for all Oakland
Students Tax as described above to the Alameda County
tax collection officials. The Alameda County Assessor’s
determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any
parcel from taxation, other than through the Low-Income
Exemption, shall be final and binding for the purposes of
the Outstanding Teachers for all Oakland Students Tax.
Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s
determination must do so under the procedures for correct-
ing a misclassification of property pursuant to Section

4876.5	of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or
other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund
of Outstanding Teachers for all Oakland Students Taxes