Measure R: School Funding, Campbell Union High School District

To restore funds cut by state government with local high school funds that cannot be taken by the state; maintain small classes, retain qualified teachers, maintain/expand academic programs including science, math, English, Advanced Placement, music, art and vocational training, shall Campbell Union High School District renew - with no tax increase - an existing $85 annual assessment for 5 years, with senior exemptions, independent citizens' fiscal oversight, no funds for administrators' salaries, and every dollar used to preserve quality education?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:
A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a five-year period of time.

A NO vote on this measure means:
A "no" vote is a vote not to approve the qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a five-year period of time.

Impartial Analysis from the County Counsel
A school district, following notice and a public hearing, has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and sections 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 of the California Government Code.
The Board of Trustees of the Campbell Union High School District (the District) proposes renewing and levying a qualified special tax on each parcel within the District. The owners of each parcel of taxable real property in the District would pay an amount not to exceed $85 per parcel for a period of five years. The specific purpose of the tax is to fund the following: to restore funds cut by state government, maintain and expand academic programs, including science, math, English and foreign languages; maintain and expand enrichment classes such as music, art and drama; maintain small classes; expand Advanced Placement classes in a range of subjects to prepare students for college; continue to support technical and vocational career training; and to retain qualified teachers.
Any owner, age 65 and over, who occupies a parcel as a principal residence, or any person receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of their age, may be exempt from the special tax upon annual application for exemption.
The proceeds of the special tax would be deposited into a separate fund and would only be used for the specific purposes identified in the measure. If the special tax is approved, the District would appoint an independent fiscal oversight committee to review the expenditure of special tax proceeds. No later than January 1 of each year while the tax is in effect, the District would prepare and file with the Board of Education a report detailing the amount of funds collected and spent and the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by this special tax. These accountability measures are consistent with the requirements set forth in Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3.
If the special tax is approved, the District's appropriations limit would be increased by the amount equal to the special tax collected for each year the special tax is authorized.
A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a five-year period of time.
A "no" vote is a vote not to approve the qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a five-year period of time.
Ann Miller Ravel 
County Counsel
By: /s/ Susan Swain 
Lead Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure R
Yes on Measure R: support education in our community, without raising taxes by a single penny.
Our local schools in Campbell Union High School District are among the best. Each school has received the prestigious California Distinguished School Award due to excellent educational programs and great teachers, who prepare local students for success in four-year colleges and the workforce.
In 2004, local voters approved Measure M that supports teachers and academic programs in our neighborhood high schools. This funding will expire unless we pass Measure R.
Without Measure R, our schools face serious budget cuts to educational programs. We could lose great teachers.
Vote Yes on Measure R to continue the funding our schools need with no tax increase.
	•	Maintain math, science, English and foreign language classes
	•	Provide more Advanced Placement classes to prepare students for college
	•	Continue to offer competitive teacher salaries, so we do not lose good teachers to other communities
	•	Maintain and expand music, art and drama classes
	•	Provide technical and vocational training to prepare students for careers
	•	Maintain small classes
Every penny of Measure R goes to our high schools. None of it can be taken by the state.
No funds will be spent on administrators.
Independent citizen oversight and independent audits ensure wise spending of funds.
An exemption is available for senior citizens and the disabled.
Measure R expires in 5 years and cannot be renewed without voter approval.
School districts are losing teachers and cutting back academics due to state budget cuts. Measure R ensures that our schools do not suffer these cuts by continuing vital local funding, without raising taxes.
We know great high schools keep our community strong, making it a desirable place to live. Please join us-vote Yes on Measure R.
/s/ Tim Hegstrom 
Dean, College of Social Science San Jose State University
/s/ Donald R. Burr 
Mayor, City of Campbell
/s/ Blanca Diaz 
Business Owner/Community Volunteer
/s/ Judy Chirco 
San Jose City Councilmember
/s/ Vincent Nicoletta 
Campbell High School Teacher's Assoc. President

(No arguments against Measure R were submitted)

Full Text of Measure R
To restore funds cut by state government with local high school funds that cannot be taken by the state; maintain small classes, retain qualified teachers, maintain/expand academic programs including science, math, English, Advanced Placement, music, art and vocational training, shall Campbell Union High School District renew - with no tax increase - an existing $85 annual assessment for 5 years, with senior exemptions, independent citizens' fiscal oversight, no funds for administrators' salaries, and every dollar used to preserve quality education?

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION
By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the registered voters voting on the proposition, the District will be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $85 per parcel, subject to all the accountability requirements specified below. If approved, the special tax will be levied for five consecutive fiscal years, starting in the fiscal year which begins July 1, 2009.

EXEMPTIONS FROM PARCEL TAX
The District has provided an exemption from the special tax will available to persons who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel and apply to the District for such exemption pursuant to guidelines established by the District. An exemption will also be available for persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, and who apply to the District for such exemption pursuant to guidelines established by the District.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS
The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in order that the voters and taxpayers in the District may be assured that their money will be spent wisely. As required by the laws of the State of California, the proceeds of the qualified special tax will be deposited into a special account established by the District and will be applied only to the specific purposes identified below. The District has covenanted to have on file with its governing board no later than January 1 of each year a report stating the amount of the funds collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be funded.

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES
The statement shown below is a part of the ballot proposition and must be reproduced in any official document required to contain the full statement of the proposition.
The proceeds of the parcel tax will be expended to finance the payment of costs and expenses of the District, which are designed to achieve the following purposes. The specific purposes of the parcel tax are described as follows:
	•	restore funds cut by state government 
	•	maintain and expand academic programs including science, math, English and foreign languages 
	•	maintain and expand enrichment classes such as music, art and drama 
	•	maintain small classes 
	•	expand Advanced Placement classes in a range of subjects to prepare students for college 
	•	continue to support technical and vocational career training 
	•	retain qualified teachers by offering competitive salaries