VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

Containing
MEASURE D

SAN RAMON VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
TUESDAY, JUNE 3, 2008

Arguments in favor of or against the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors.

If you would like to receive this information in Spanish please call (925)
335-7800. If you have already requested voting information in Spanish,
the information will be mailed to you automatically.

Si desea recibir esta informacion en espanol, por favor Name al (925)
335-7800. Si ya solicito informacion para votar en espanol, esta sera
enviada automaticamente por correo.

PARCEL TAX MEASURE D
SAN RAMON VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

To replace its existing parcel tax, address the impact of state budget cuts,
avoid increased class sizes, keep middle and high school libraries open,
reduce class size in middle and high school science labs, algebra, calculus
and math classes and maintain counseling, shall the San Ramon Valley
Unified School District levy an annual tax of $166 per taxable parcel for
seven years, beginning July 1, 2008, with an annual inflation adjustment
limited to $8, annual audits and offering a senior exemption?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE D

The Board of Education of the San Ramon Valley Unified School
District has adopted a resolution proposing a parcel tax (a qualified special
tax).

The ballot measure asks voters to decide whether a parcel tax
should be imposed on parcels of taxable real property within the District for
seven years, beginning July 1, 2008. It would replace the District’s existing
parcel tax of $90 per year, which expires on June 30, 2009.

The parcel tax would be $166 per year on each parcel of taxable
real property in the District. The parcel tax would be adjusted for inflation
each year, and would increase by no more than $8 per year per parcel. A
parcel of taxable real property is any unit of real property in the District that
receives a separate tax bill for property taxes from the Contra Costa County
Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. A parcel otherwise exempt from property
taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of the parcel tax.

The ballot measure includes a senior citizen exemption. Any parcel
owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older would be exempt
from the parcel tax upon proper application to the District. Senior citizens
with a current valid exemption from the District’s existing parcel tax would be
exempt from the proposed parcel tax and would not be required to reapply.

The ballot measure states that the proceeds of the parcel tax will be
used to “address the impact of state budget cuts, avoid increased class
sizes, keep middle and high school libraries open, reduce class size in
middle and high school science labs, algebra, calculus and math classes and
maintain counseling.” Proceeds from the parcel tax may be used only for the
specific purposes set forth in the ballot measure and according to
constitutional and statutory provisions.

Proceeds from the parcel tax will be deposited into a District account
that will be kept separate from other District accounts. As long as any
proceeds of the parcel tax remain unexpended, an annual independent audit

1

report will be prepared stating the amount of the parcel tax received and
expended in the year and a description of programs funded from the tax
proceeds.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the
measure for it to pass.

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax.

A “no” vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure D. If you
desire a copy of the full text of the measure, please call the San Ramon
Valley Unified School District at 925.552.2933 and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you or go to our website at www.srvusd.net to view this
information. * •

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE D

Cuts in the state’s education budget will impact our local schools. Measure D
will renew the parcel tax that provides stable, reliable local funding to the
San Ramon Valley Unified School District and protect essential classroom
programs and student services from deep cuts in the state’s education
budget.

Measure D will continue to fund the programs currently paid for with parcel
tax dollars, maintaining each despite the cuts being made by the state.
Measure D will:

•	Keep class sizes small in kindergarten through third grade and in
ninth grade English and math, enabling the district to fully participate
in the state’s class size reduction program;

•	Keep middle and high school libraries open;

•	Keep counselors at the district’s middle and high schools;

•	Keep teachers for 5th grade instrumental music.

Measure D will also:

•	Strengthen the district’s math and science programs; including the
lowering of class sizes in middle and high school science labs,
algebra, calculus and math classes.

The cost of Measure D is reasonable. Measure D will increase the cost of
the current parcel tax by less than $7 per month. An exemption will be

2

offered to those who are 65 and older. Parcel tax funds will be independently
audited every year.

Measure D is an:

•	investment in the student services and classroom programs that
keep our schools among the highest achieving in California;

•	investment that will protect and strengthen the value of every home
and business in the district;

•	investment in stable, local funds not subject to the ups and downs
of the state’s budget;

•	investment in the math and science skills of the next generation,
keeping our country and state competitive in the world economy.

Please join us in voting Yes for Measure D.

EB (“Bick”) Hooper, Ph.D.	Dianne Schinnerer

(Retired) Deputy Program Leader, LLNL	Founder, Kids’ Country

Fellow, American Physical Society

Denise C. Jennison	James Stone

President, San Ramon Valley	Professor Emeritus,

Council of PTAs	UC Berkeley

David Yee

Facilities Oversight and Advisory Committee Member •

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE D

AT BEST. MEASURE D IS PREMATURE.

•	SRVUSD’s existing $90 parcel tax doesn’t expire until July, 2009.

•	Measure D would increase SRVUSD parcel taxes 84%, THIS July,
to $166 — plus annual “inflation” increments! (Headlines,
meanwhile: “Surging Food Prices [4% increases] Jolt Families.”
How about surging taxes?)

•	If Democrats gain intended veto-proof Statehouse supermajorities
this November, taxes will rise enormously. California schools (and
teacher unionists) will receive billions more.

MEASURE D IS ANOTHER BAIT AND SWITCH.

•	As Ernie Scherer demonstrated, SRVUSD substantially
understated its predictable 2004-05 revenues after passing the
current parcel tax. Then, as now, parcel taxes would supposedly
preserve student programs.

•	But in 2005, SRVUSD implemented compensation increases
costing $3.8 Million annually — almost exactly equaling parcel-tax
revenue — just the first of three raises since 2004.

•	SRVUSD teachers now receive up to $84,288 (plus extraordinary
benefits, including monthly $1875 family medical premiums) for
186 work days annually, versus 250 days for most workers.

MEASURE P’s TAX PROMOTERS HAVE ACCOUNTABILITY PROBLEMS:

•	Exposed in Not as Good as You Think (Pacific Research Institute,
2007) SRVUSD high schools perform poorly in State testing of college-
English readiness — averaging just 42% proficiency in 2007.

•	AMONG SIMILAR SCHOOLS. SRVUSD’s Academic Performance
Index ratings average only 7.2 out of 10. Taxpayers deserve
better performance (and fewer minimum days) with existing
revenues.

•	Large education-funding increases and class-size reduction
programs correlate poorly with academic achievement.

SRVUSD’S “INDEPENDENT AUDITS” CLOAK FISCAL SHELL GAMES

AND IRRESPONSIBLE OVERSPENDING....

VOTE “NO" ON MEASURE D!

www.NOonD.info

Michael Arata — Industrial Consultant;
Former Teacher and Coach, Danville

Robert Hora — Mortgage Rate Analyst;
President, Shadow Creek
Residents’ Assn., Danville

Alliance of Contra Costa Taxpayers
Kenneth E. Hambrick, Chairman

(Management Consultant; Former Grant

Louis Barberini — Grandparent
of 5 SRVUSD Students; Retired
Police Sergeant, Danville

Barbara Meistrell — Parent of 2
SRVUSD Graduates; Retired
Classroom Teacher, Alamo

Jury Member)

4

ARGUMENT AGAINST
PARCEL TAX MEASURE D

VOTERS SHOULD FAIL MEASURE D!

•	Tired of seeing 30%... 40%... 50% of your next-earned dollar
consumed by income and FICA taxes — before even counting
sales taxes, property taxes, gasoline taxes...? Then reject
inflationary new tax increases, and require more responsible
budgeting by public agencies, including this school district.

•	Federal, state, and local governments together now spend $16,000
annually per person!

RESPONSIBLE BUDGETING OF GENEROUS EXISTING RESOURCES
COULD FUND ANY GENUINE NEEDS.

•	From 2003-04 (when SRVUSD passed the current parcel tax) to 2008-
09, California’s inflation and population growth, combined, project
at 22%.

*	But projected state spending has soared 42%, ensuring
insolvency once again.

State taxes supply most operational dollars spent by schools. New local taxes
enable more spendthrift irresponsibility in Sacramento. It’s a costly,
manipulative shell game, victimizing California families facing tough
economic times!

SRVUSD ALWAYS PLEADS POVERTY — UNTIL THE NEXT
RETROACTIVE PAY - RAISE.

The district has implemented three raises, just since 2004’s parcel tax, atop annual
step increases.

Measure D’s “Excellence in Education Tax” doesn’t guarantee property
values or improved academic performance, just $1.162 to $1,210 more
in cumulative new taxes per parcel.

Additionally:

*	Measure D’s senior exemption requires exposure of private
documents. Meanwhile, fair-minded seniors recognize the inequity in
backing taxes they needn’t pay themselves.

*	Many consider parcel taxes regressive, extracting equal amounts
from every non-exempt property owner, commercial or residential,
regardless of parcel size or owner’s income. 5

5

SRVUSD’s expensive tax-election consultant coauthored a book
advising school administrators to “create cognitive dissonance” and to
consider “the ‘theater’ associated with media contact” when pushing tax
increases.

In contrast, our grassroots opposition doesn’t have professional
campaign agents, taxpayer-financed push polls or spin doctors, slanted
media coverage — nor illegal school-based campaigning. We must rely
instead on voters’ common sense....

Vote NO on Measure D!

Becky Kolberg — Interior Designer;
Former Real-Estate Banking Officer;
Community Service Volunteer, San Ramon

Thomas Matthews — Parent
of 2 SRVUSD Graduates;
Retired Chemical Engineer;
Real Estate Broker, Alamo

Robert E. Rose — Realtor;
Senior Citizen, San Ramon

Suzanne C. Thompson -

Homemaker and Retired
Medical Technician;
Senior Citizen, Alamo

Alliance of Contra Costa Taxpayers
Kenneth E. Hambrick, Chairman

(Management Consultant, Former Grand Jury Member) * •

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
PARCEL TAX MEASURE D

Do not be confused by emotional statements about state and federal taxes.

The meaning of every vote cast on Measure D is very clear:

•	Every yes vote is a vote to renew our commitment to provide
our students with the teachers, class sizes, science, math and
library programs they need to achieve and to compete in a
global economy;

•	Every no vote is a vote to close school libraries, eliminate
teaching and counseling positions, increase class sizes and ask
our students to “get by” as best they can.

It is that simple. Measure D will:

•	Enable the district to continue to fully participate in the state’s class
size reduction program;

•	Keep middle and high school libraries open;

6

•	Keep counselors at the district’s middle and high schools;

•	Keep teachers for 5th grade instrumental music.

•	Strengthen the district’s math and science programs.

Approval of Measure D renews an investment of local, reliable funds in a
school district with a proven record of high student achievement. Student test
scores in our school district are among the highest in the state.

All Measure D funds will be spent in our community. None can be taken by
Sacramento. The programs, services and teachers it supports will be
protected from cuts and changes in the state’s budget. Learn more by
visiting www.CitizensForQualitySchools.net.

Together, our votes will shape the future of our school district. Join us in
voting yes and together let’s renew our investment in high quality education.

Ted Carter	Carolyn Degnan

Management Consultant	President / CEO San Ramon

President, Dougherty Valley High School Chamber of Commerce
Athletic Boosters

David Ramos	Don Ritchey

CPA and 18 year resident	Retired Corporate Executive,

Former Danville Mayor

Diane Slater

Local Business Person, 31 year resident

7