ORDINANCE - MANUFACTURING BUSINESS LICENSE TAX

MEASURE “_____”

CITY OF RICHMOND

Shall the City of Richmond adopt an ordinance to (1) levy a new tax on manufacturing
businesses equal to lA % of one percent of the value of the raw materials used in the
business’s manufacturing process per year, which would be the tax amount paid by a
manufacturing business if that amount is more than the business would otherwise pay
under the City’s current general business license law; (2) standardize the time period for
business licenses so that all business licenses are valid for the calendar year; and (3)
require annual audits of the taxes collected under the Richmond Municipal Code?

CITY ATTORNEY’S OFFICE
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “________”

The City of Richmond currently requires businesses in the City to obtain a business
license and pay a business license fee, which is a tax for general revenues. The amount of
this tax is primarily based on the number of persons employed by the business.

Under this measure, manufacturing businesses would be taxed under a new formula.
Manufacturing businesses would pay the greater of (1) the tax that would be paid by
other general businesses or (2) a flat fee of one fourth of one percent (0.250%) of the
value of the raw materials used in the manufacturing process. Only raw materials
actually used in the manufacturing process are counted for purposes of calculating the
tax. Any materials merely owned, stored in inventory, warehoused or transported are not
included in the calculation. The calculation for each tax year would be based on the total
value of materials used in the prior year. The measure contains definitions of
manufacturing, manufacturing materials and a method of valuation in order to implement
this new approach.

This measure, if approved, would result in a uniform business license term. Currently
business licenses run a 12 month period from the date the license is issued. This measure
would set the term for all business licenses to January 1 through December 31 and
provides a mechanism for conforming current business licenses to the new term.

In addition, the measure provides that that the business license fee is not a property tax,
and requires annual audits of the taxes collected under the Richmond Municipal by the
Audit Committee of the Richmond City Council.

The City estimates this Measure will generate about $26,462,500 in new revenue
beginning in 2009, of which about $26,462,500 will come from manufacturing
businesses.

More than 5,000 registered Richmond voters signed petitions to put measure__, "A

Fair Share for Richmond", on the ballot. This is a completely volunteer driven,
grassroots effort led by Richmond voters. No paid staff are involved in the campaign.

Measure_____would upgrade Richmond's business license fee on large manufacturers.

The new fee would be 0.25% of the value of raw materials they process, if this amount
is more than their current fee. Large manufacturers, like Chevron, would be required to
pay their fair share for operating so profitably in our city. The business license fee for
landlords, retail, construction, service providers, restaurants and other non-
manufacturing businesses would remain the same with NO increase.

To welcome new businesses to Richmond, the business license fee would be waived for
all new businesses for up to the first 18 months of operation.

The City would receive an estimated increase in revenue of at least $16 million each
year from Chevron, which refines about 240,000 barrels of oil per day. The Chevron
corporation made $18.7 Billion in profit in 2007 and $11 Billion in profit in the first six

months of 2008. That is more than $16 million in profit every 7 hours, so measure_

will NOT be an unreasonable burden.

Directly invested in Richmond, this revenue could be used to train and employ
thousands of at-risk youth, open recreation centers and libraries day and night, fix our
streets, and substantially increase violence prevention efforts.

Measure_____will not cost individual taxpayers a penny.

A vote for measure____is a vote for a better Richmond.

Learn more at www.AFairShareForRichmond.org

Tom Butt	Richmond City Councilmember
Dr. Jeff Ritterman	Medical Doctor, Chief of Cardiology at Kaiser Richmond
Jovanka Beckles	Educator, Small Business Owner
Antonio Medrano	Faith Works and Concilio Latino
Rev. Phil Lawson	Chair, Richmond Vision

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure T
(248 words)

Don’t be fooled! Measure T isn’t a tax on Chevron - it’s a job killer that will bankrupt
small, locally-owned businesses in Richmond by forcing them to pay higher taxes which
they cannot afford.

Measure T raises taxes on nearly every business in Richmond including bakeries,
restaurants, and small grocery stores - likely driving these companies out of business or
out of town.

Measure T is a tax on all of us - threatening good-paying jobs for Richmond residents.
We should do more to keep jobs in our community, not drive them away.

Measure T will increase the cost of everything made in Richmond, including bread,
gasoline and other essentials goods and services - unfairly impacting low and middle-
income Richmond residents who can afford it the least.

Measure T unfairly taxes local businesses that provide Richmond residents with good-
paying jobs, while letting out-of-town corporations who operate in our community pay
nothing.

Richmond has worked hard to attract good-paying “Green-collar” jobs, including solar
manufactures. Measure T will drive those businesses out of town by making it too
expensive to operate in Richmond.

We are facing difficult economic times with many small businesses in Richmond
struggling to make ends meet and avoid laying off local workers. Measure T will likely
put many of those small, family-owned businesses on the brink of bankruptcy.

Richmond faces serious problems that require creative solutions. But Measure T is the
wrong approach to solving the problems we face.

Richmond simply can’t afford Measure T. Vote No on Measure T.

Argument against Measure____

Measure____exempts low-wage retail businesses... and raises taxes on

good manufacturing jobs.

It's not right to raise business taxes by a full .25% on all the
manufacturing materials and then let low-wage companies pay nothing
more.

Many low-wage employees have to take some form of welfare.

Measure____exempts companies that pay those "welfare" wages.

Manufacturing jobs in Richmond - bakeries, refineries, solar panels,
kitchen counters and cabinets - pay solid wages. Thousands of these
jobs pay $20-plus wages with real health benefits.

The economy is in trouble. Manufacturing businesses are trying to
avoid layoffs. We are fighting tough competition from foreign
countries that pay lower wages. Do Richmond politicians think local
manufacturing businesses can afford a .25% business tax on materials
and not need to lay people off?

An August 7, 2008 the Contra Costa Times article reported the East
Bay has lost 23% of its manufacturing jobs since January 2001 and
the closing of yet another East Bay manufacturing facility.

Measure____'s .25% tax will drive more manufacturing jobs away from

Richmond and to other countries.

Both candidates for President say we should be bringing jobs back to
America. We want to keep the good manufacturing jobs we still have
in Richmond.

If the City wants to raise business taxes, then they ought to raise
them a little bit for everyone... not a .25% increase just for
manufacturing.

Vote NO on Measure

___________REBUTTAL	TO	ARGUMENT	AGAINST	MEASURE	T

Rebuttal Argument & Word Count begin Below. Names & Titles are not Included In the word count

Measure T, "A Fair Share for Richmond," will bring hundreds of new jobs to Richmond: new service jobs,
contracts with local companies, and partnerships with local non-profits.

Measure T will help Richmond advance towards a new and sustainable economy. Richmond residents could be
employed in city services (libraries and recreation), fixing streets, solar installation, and servicing at-risk
populations with crime and violence prevention tools.

Measure T will affect only a tiny fraction of Richmond's 68 licensed manufacturers. Companies will only be
affected if 0.25% (V«of 1%) of the value of their raw materials exceeds their current fee.

Green businesses like solar panel distributors and installers will not be affected. A manufacturer of countertops
from inexpensive recycled materials is unlikely to be affected. A bakery with 200 employees would have to
spend over $3.4 million on ingredients like sugar and flour before being affected.

By far the largest manufacturer in Richmond is Chevron, which continues to make record profits ($46.5 billion,
January 2006-June 2008) while operating its refinery in a prime location on the Richmond shoreline. Less than
5% of Chevron employees are Richmond residents. It is fair to require that Chevron do more for Richmond.

Investing in Richmond will enhance the quality of life in the community, providing an environment that gives
young working families a reason to stay while attracting new businesses to Richmond.

Measure T provides funds for job creation, a cleaner community, and a brighter future.

Vote YES on Measure T for Richmond's fair share.

www.YesOnT.net

CD

CO

Xo

GD

cn

~o

nc

rvj

o—

iO

o

20

** Exact names and titles of proponents as shown on Signer - Signature Statement are needed for this Argument**
______________*	If	signing	on	behalf of an association, list organization first and signer underneath. *

Name.

Title	hh/l	A/&f^k£ctehc>ai(^£0C//)C4	y

Name	lAAfijfrAjZT

Title	pfr&io	faTETUirg	/HB£G#Ait/T£

Name Millie Cleveland_________________________

Title Service Employees International Union ISEIUI-1021_

Name Gavle McLaughlin.__________________

Title Mayor of Richmond___________________

Name John Gioia___________________________

Title Contra Costa Board of Countv Supervisors. District One

SIGNATURE STATEMENT - PAGE 2

CHECK ONE OF THE FOLLOWING & RECORD LETTER OF MEASURE:

□	Argument in Favor of Measure__

□	Argument Against Measure___

□	Rebuttal to Araument in Favor of Measure
Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure ~7~~

RECEIVED

CITY CLERKS OFFICE
CITY OF RICHMOND

08AUG 15 PM 2; k\

The signatures of the following persons will be printed as submitted below following the argument or rebuttal.

SIGNATURE

PRINT NAME
as it will appear in the
Voter's Information
Pamphlet

PRINT TITLE AND
NAME OF ASSOCIATION
(IF APPLICABLE)
as it will appear in the
Voter's Information Pamphlet.

Are you
signing on

DATE

behalf of an

association?
YES or NO*

/M&t/o/i ejO, /QchkDf^

^ $cJ)/n6r)c(

/\/o

Mot

JotfN

fAtTli'e CWelcci*

£o*1v *-	*»	CoviA-y

AJo



fo



SeOiEe-	____

LL*U&\ L.Q>C*xL~ 1&7—1

//<5





iy\ajA£M





%/15 (OS’

Txo

QL^

ument or rebuttal is being s

1 iwscrtt	w

?d bv a principal officer on behalf of an association that is supporting or opposing thpm

fi/'S/fe

___	_	i	gned	by	a	principal	officer	on behalf of an association that is supporting or opposing the measure, the name of the

association will appear on the first line, followed by the principal officer's name and title on the second line as the example illustrates:

Contra Costa County Elections Department
si Stephen L. Weir, County Clerk-Recorder
If the argument or rebuttal is being signed by a person who is associated with a particular organization that is supporting or opposing the measure, the name of

the organization will appear as follows:

John Gray, Chair

Golden Oaks Homeowners Association

8

AUTHORIZATION FOR ANOTHER PERSON OR PERSONS TO

SIGN REBUTTAL ARGUMENT

authorize the following person(s) to sign

election.

(Print name of FILER of the argument)

the rebuttal to the argument
□ in favor
against

Measure [_ for the	>	2CK)^

(Letter)	(Election	Date) '

(One or more people who signed the argument may be replaced with different people to sign the rebuttal)

1.	<=>&/!&■	iW	tosign instead of 7o/n	 .

(Print name of rebuttal signer)	(Print	name	of	argument	signer)

2.	^j/2	 to	sign	instead	of	J

(Print name of rebuttal signer)	(Print	name	of	argument	signer)

3.	Mi J lie.	_to sign instead of _

(Print name of rebuttal signer)	(Print	name	of	argument	signer)

4. 'fe&flf)€. fW&'hO/)to sign instead of	^7£	A'

(Print name of rebuttal signer)	(Print	name	of	argument	signer)

5.	Zurmltt	tosign instead of A? -fattO

Print name of rebuttal signer,' 7T^

Signature of Filer:

(Print name of argument signer)
Date:

CD

CO

la

Cl

crt

~o

rs:

ro

CD —

oP'I!

~n rn C

?^m

£-iiO

Attach this form to the ^pqtge "Signature Statement" submitted with the rebuttal argument.

10

FULL TEXT OF
MEASURE “	”

EXHIBIT B

PROPOSED MEASURE

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF RICHMOND
ENACTING THE RICHMOND BUSINESS LICENSE ACT

The People of the City of Richmond, California, do ordain as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 7.04 of the Richmond Municipal Code is hereby
amended and restated to read as follows:

Chapter 7.04 BUSINESS LICENSE ACT

7.04.010	Purpose

This chapter shall be known as the "Richmond Business License Act.” This Chapter is
enacted to raise revenue for municipal purposes and is not intended for the purpose of
regulation. The license fees payable hereunder are general taxes within the meaning of
Article XIIIC of the California Constitution. This chapter shall apply to all persons
engaged in business in the City of Richmond.

7.04.015 Business License Required; Replacement of Existing Licenses.

(a)	All persons conducting any business in the City of Richmond shall be required to
obtain a business license and pay the applicable fee pursuant to this chapter.
Each business license shall be for the period commencing January 1 and ending
on December 31 of each year, unless otherwise provided herein. Unless a period
of shorter than one year for the license fee is specified in this chapter, each
license shall be for a period of one calendar year. The license fee shall not be
prorated for any period shorter than the period specified in the applicable section
of this chapter for payment of the fee.

(b)	Any person holding an existing business license issued pursuant to this chapter
prior to December 31, 2008 shall be required to obtain a renewed license
effective January 1, 2009 for calendar year 2009. A credit toward the 2009
license fee payable hereunder shall be given equal to the product of (i) the
license fee paid for the existing license times (ii) a fraction, the numerator of
which is the number of months remaining from January 1, 2009 to the expiration
date of the existing license (with a full month’s credit given for any fraction of a
month) and the denominator of which is 12. Any business license issued prior to
December 31, 2008 shall expire on such date and shall be superseded by the
new license issued pursuant to this chapter.

1

7.04.017 New Businesses

For any person who establishes a new business in the City of Richmond and which
has not operated any business in the City of Richmond in the preceding five years,
the fees under this chapter shall be waived (1) if the date of establishment of such
business is after June 30 of any year, for the period commencing on the date of
establishment of such business and ending on the December 31 which is at least 12
months after the date of establishment of the business, or (ii) if the date of
establishment of such business is prior to July 1 of any year, for the period
commencing on the date of establishment of such business and ending the next
December 31. Thereafter, such business shall be required to pay the fees specified
in this chapter.

7.04.020	Definitions

In this chapter the singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular,
and the masculine gender includes the other genders. The word “shall” is mandatory,
“may” is permissive.

“Arcade” means a general room or enclosure in which is conducted a business
of operating or exhibiting any phonograph, graphaphone talking machine,
music machine, kinetoscope, biograph, projectoscope, or any other instrument
or machine of like character, or exhibiting, showing, or letting the use of any
game of skill, microscope, lungtester, muscle-tester, galvanic battery, weighing
machine, fortune telling machine, or machine of similar character.

“Armed Forces of the United States” as used in this chapter means the Army,

Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and Revenue Marine (Revenue
Cutter) Service of the United States.

“Carnival” means any commercialized merrymaking, whether upon a public
street or otherwise, wherein there is any performance or exhibition of any kind
or character, or concession or group of concessions, or tests of skill, or merry-
go-round or ferris wheel or animals or clowns or side shows of any kind.

“Circus" means any exhibition in which seats for spectators are arranged in
tiers, and in which are shown feats of horsemanship, balancing, tumbling,
vaulting, where clowns and singers and acrobats and wild animals and
performers and actors entertain the audience.

“Direct relative” means a spouse, parent, parent-in-law, grandparent,
grand-parent-in-law, brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, child, or grandchild.

“Disabled war veteran” means a war veteran who is disabled ten percent or
more which disability was incurred in connection with his service in the armed
forces of the United States during time of war or while participating in a
campaign or expedition.

2

“Employed” means engaged or employed as an employee in a business which
is subject to regulation under this chapter.

“Employee” means all persons engaged in the operation or conduct of any
business, whether as owner, any member of owner’s family, partner,
associate, agent, manager, or solicitor, and any and all other persons engaged
or employed in said business.

“Engaged in business” means the conducting, managing or carrying on of any
business herein specified by any person as owner, officer, agent, manager,
employee, servant, or lessee.

“Evidence of doing business” means and includes whenever any person, by
use of signs, circulars, cards or any other advertising media, holds oneself out
as, or represents that person as doing business in the city.

"Itinerant show” means any temporary or transient show or theatrical
performance, such as is usually given in theaters, and which is conducted in
any structure or tent hired, leased, or erected for such purpose.

“Manufacturing” means the activity of converting or conditioning tangible
personal property by changing the form, composition, or quality of character of
some existing material or materials, including natural resources, by procedures
commonly regarded by the average person as manufacturing, compounding,
processing or assembling, into a material or materials with a different form or
use. Manufacturing includes any process of refining or processing
hydrocarbons, petroleum or crude oil to produce products for use as fuels,
lubricants, solvents, plastics, or other intermediate or final products. ’’Materials
used in manufacturing” means any and all materials used by a business
engaged in manufacturing any part of which becomes a part of a product
produced by the manufacturing business. With respect to any business which
refines, distills, or otherwise manufacturers any product using hydrocarbons,
petroleum or crude oil of any type, materials used in manufacturing includes all
such materials used in such manufacturing process. For any taxable period,
materials used in manufacturing does not include any materials acquired,
stored or transported which are not actually subjected to the manufacturing
process during the taxable period.

“Peddler” or “solicitor” means any person going from door to door or doing
business at any place other than in a permanent store building, selling, taking
orders for or soliciting orders for goods, wares, or merchandise.

“Person” means any domestic and foreign corporations, associations,
syndicates, joint stock companies, firms, partnerships of every kind, trusts,
societies, and individuals

"Professional carnival operator” means any person, partnership, corporation or
firm whose business is the operation, management or carrying on of a carnival
or of performances, exhibitions, concessions, rides or other apparatus
designed for or employed in the conduct of a carnival.

“Rodeo” means any exhibition or contest of skill in riding, racing, roping,
throwing, or otherwise controlling broken or unbroken horses or cattle for the
entertainment of spectators.

“Sworn statement" means a written statement sworn to before the Tax
Collector or any officer authorized by law to administer oaths.

“Tax Collector” means the license administrator of the city.

“Value” means, with respect to materials used in manufacturing, the actual
cost or fair market value, whichever is greater, of all of the materials used in
manufacturing. With respect to any materials used in manufacturing for which
there is a published spot price in the financial markets, “value” shall be
deemed to be equal to such published spot price for purposes of this chapter
unless substantial evidence is presented to the Tax Collector that the actual
fair market value of the materials is lower. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for
purposes of calculating the license fee for any manufacturing process involving
crude oil, the value of such crude oil shall be deemed to be equal to the
product of (i) the total amount of crude oil used during the period of calculation
for the business license, times (ii) the average daily spot price of New York
Mercantile Exchange Inc. Light Sweet Crude Oil (trading symbol CL), or, if
such index is no longer published, such other index as is determined to be
comparable by the Tax Collector, for such period.

“War veteran" as used in this chapter means any person who has served in the
armed forces of the United States during time of war or in a campaign or
expedition in time of peace for which a medal has been issued by the
Congress of the United States and who has received an honorable discharge
or release from such service.

“War” and “campaign” as used in this chapter mean those wars and
campaigns referred to in Section 205 of the Revenue Code of the state and in
any amendment or revision of said section hereafter enacted.

Words and phrases not specifically defined in this chapter shall be construed
according to the context and approved usage of the language.

7.04.025 Manufacturers

Every person engaged in manufacturing shall pay an annual license fee of the
greater of: (i) the license fee which would apply to such person if such person
were subject to the provisions of Section 7.04.030 or (ii) a fee equal to one fourth
of one percent (0.250%) of the values of materials used in the manufacturing
process during the calendar year immediately preceding the year for which the fee
is paid.

7.04.030	Wholesalers, retailers, persons providing services and persons
conducting other business.

Every person engaged in the manufacturing, wholesaling or retailing business or
providing any service to the public or engaging in or conducting any other
business not elsewhere in this chapter specifically mentioned shall pay annually a 4

4

license fee of two hundred thirty-four dollars and ten cents ($234.10) plus an
additional sum of money equal to forty-six dollars and eighty cents ($46.80) per
employee for the first twenty-five employees and forty dollars and ten cents
($40.10) per employee in excess of twenty-five employees. For the purpose of
calculating the total license fee payable under this section, the number of
employees shall be the average number of employees employed or to be
employed in the city as shown by the applicant’s sworn statement required under
Section 7.04.300 of this chapter reduced by one; provided, that, where the
business is owned jointly by a husband and wife or where the husband or wife of
the owner of the business is engaged or employed in the business, such average
number of employees shall be reduced by two, and further reduced by one for
each person engaged or employed in the business who is the child of the husband
and wife.

7.04.031	Contractors licensed by state.

Every contractor or other person who, pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with
Section 7000) of Division ill of the Business and Professions Code, is licensed by
or engages in a business regulated by the Contractors' State License Board of the
Department of Professional and Vocational Standards of the state shall, at the
time he applies for a license under this chapter or for a renewal thereof, file or
have on file with the tax collector a signed statement that he is licensed under the
provisions of Chapter 9 and stating that the license is in full force and effect, or, if
he is exempt from the provisions of Chapter 9, he shall furnish proof of the facts
which entitle him to such exemption.

7.04.032	Child care homes.

Every person regularly providing care, protection or supervision to more than six
children, in the person’s own home for periods of less than twenty-four hours per
day shall pay an annual license fee of sixteen dollars and seventy cents ($16. 70)
dollars plus an additional sum of six dollars and sixty-five cents ($6.65) for each
child cared for in the home.

7.04.040	Motion pictures.

Every person conducting, managing or carrying on the business of exhibiting
motion pictures, either in a building or an open airdrome, shall pay an annual
license fee based on the annual gross receipts of such business as follows; one
hundred dollars and thirty cents ($100.30) for twenty thousand dollars or less of
gross receipts, and three dollars for each additional one thousand dollars or
fractional part thereof of gross receipts over twenty thousand dollars.

7.04.050	Itinerant shows, circuses, carnivals, rodeos and hawkers.

(a)	General. Every person conducting any itinerant show, circus, carnival, rodeo,
or in the business of hawking, shall pay a license fee in advance at the following
rates: itinerant show, eighty-three dollars and sixty cents ($83.60) per day;
carnival when conducted by a professional carnival operator, eight hundred thirty-
six dollars and fifteen cents ($836.15) per day; circus, eight hundred thirty six
dollars and fifteen cents ($836.15) per day; rodeo, five hundred one dollars and 5

5

seventy cents ($501.70) per day; hawker, eighty-three dollars and sixty cents
($83.60) per day, payable in advance where the article sold is not a patent or
other medicine, and when the article is a patent or other medicine, the license fee
shall be one hundred sixty-seven dollars and twenty cents ($167.20), payable in
advance.

(b)	Reduced Fee for Carnivals. Upon written application, the City Council may
reduce the license fee for a carnival which is conducted in its entirety or in any
part of a professional carnival operator, if it is sponsored by a religious, charitable,
fraternal or educational organization or association, or a student body group for
purposes of raising funds for such organization, association, or group, and if the
proceeds received by the sponsoring organization, association or group are used
entirely for the purposes and objects for which such organization, association or
group was formed. The application for a reduced license fee shall be
accompanied by the agreement or contract between the professional carnival
operator and the sponsoring organization, association or group showing the
agreement of the parties thereto regarding division of the proceeds to be derived
from the operation of the carnival. The City Council may consider the agreement
between the parties, respecting the division of such proceeds in determining
whether, and to what extent, the license fee for the carnival may be reduced.

(c)	Waiver of Fee. Upon written application, the City Council may waive the
license fee for a carnival or similar activity or event which is sponsored or
conducted by a religious, charitable, fraternal or educational organization or
association, or by a student body group if the organization, association, or group
does not employ the services of a professional carnival operator to conduct the
carnival or similar activity.

7.04.051	Vendors of racing forms.

Every person engaged in the business of vendor of racing forms shall pay a
license fee, in advance, to the City of Richmond at the following rate: six hundred
and sixty-eight dollars and ninety-five cents ($668.95) for ninety days. Every
person engaged in the business of vendor of racing forms shall pay a racing forms
application fee of eight dollars and thirty-five cents ($8.35).

7.04.060	Arcade and shooting gallery.

Every person engaged in the business of operating an arcade or shooting gallery
shall pay an annual license fee at the following rate: arcade, two hundred dollars
and sixty-five cents ($200.65) per year; shooting gallery, one hundred thirty-three
dollars and seventy-five cents ($133. 75) per year.

7.04.065 Mechanical or electronic amusement device.

Every person who owns or operates a business containing any mechanical or
electronic amusement device shall pay an annual fee for the permit of fifty-six
dollars and five cents ($56.05) for each device operated within the business.

7.04.070	Auctioneers and auctions.

For each auction to be conducted within the City of Richmond an application fee of
one hundred sixty-seven dollars and twenty cents ($167.20) shall be paid. Every 6

6

person conducting an auction within the City of Richmond shall pay an auctioneer
license fee of eighty-three dollars and sixty cents ($83.60) per day, provided that
no license shall be required under the provisions of this section for the sale of
merchandise salvaged from any fire, wreck or other calamity occurring in the City
of Richmond, where said auction is conducted by the person who held the license
to conduct the business before the fire, wreck or other calamity occurred.

7.04.080	Billiard or pool rooms and bowling alleys.

Every person engaged in the business of operating any public billiard or pool room
shall pay a license fee of fifty dollars and fifteen cents ($50.15) per table per year.
Every person engaged in the business of operating a bowling alley shall pay an
annual license fee based on the annual gross receipts of such business as
follows: one hundred dollars and thirty cents ($100.30) for twenty thousand dollars
or less of gross receipts, and five dollars ($5.00) for each one thousand dollars or
fraction thereof, by which such gross receipts exceed the sum of twenty thousand
dollars.

7.04.090	Mechanical musical instruments.

Every person engaged in the business of maintaining in places of business or
elsewhere in the City of Richmond mechanical musical instruments, which are
operated by coins, shall pay a license fee of thirty dollars and ten cents ($30.10)
semiannually or sixty dollars and twenty cents ($60.20) annually for each such
instrument.

7.04.092 Weight scales.

Every person maintaining, operating, offering for operation or letting the use of any
coin operated weight scale within the City of Richmond shall pay a license fee of
three dollars and thirty cents ($3.30) per year for each such scale.

7.04.100	Peddlers and solicitors.

Every person engaged in the business of peddler or solicitor shall pay a license
fee of one hundred dollars and thirty cents ($100.30) semiannually or two hundred
dollars and sixty-five cents ($200.65) annually, provided that no license fee shall
be required for any person selling fruit, vegetables, or other farm products raised
or produced by himself, or articles of merchandise manufactured by himself.

7.04.105 Police permits for peddlers and solicitors.

Each person engaged in the business of peddler and solicitor in the City of
Richmond shall pay an application fee of eleven dollars and twenty cents ($11.20)
upon the filing of the application. Upon expiration of the application each such
person shall pay a renewal fee of five dollars and sixty cents ($5.60).

7.04.110	Photographs, enlargements, frames, coupons, and orders for
taking photographs only.

Every person engaged in the business of canvassing for or soliciting orders for the
sale of enlarging of photographs or other pictures, or picture frames to be sold or
given away with enlarged pictures, or selling tickets, coupons, or other devices in
return for which such pictures or frame may be had, shall pay a license fee of
sixteen dollars and seventy cents per day, payable in advance.

Every person engaged in the business of canvassing for or soliciting orders for the
taking of photographs only shall pay a license fee of fifty dollars and fifteen cents
($50.15) semiannually.

7.04.115 Part-time businesses.

(a)	Subject to the exemptions set forth in Section 7.04.160, every person or
business which generates more than six hundred dollars but less than one
thousand dollars for the fiscal year shall be required to pay a business license fee
of one hundred dollars and thirty cents ($100.30) semi-annually or two hundred
dollars and sixty-five cents ($200. 65) annually.

(b)	For the purpose of this section, evidence that the income of the business does
not exceed the sum of one thousand dollars for the fiscal year shall be either the
previous year’s tax return for the person or business or, if the person or business
is new to the City of Richmond, a signed declaration stating that the person or
business does not anticipate that the income generated within the City will exceed
one thousand dollars for the fiscal year.

7.04.120	Taxicabs.

Every person engaged in the business of operating vehicles for hire or taxicabs
shall pay a license fee of eighty-three dollars and sixty cents ($83. 60) per vehicle
per year.

7.04.125 Hazardous waste facilities.

(a)	Imposition. Pursuant to California Health and Safety Code Section 25173.5,
there is hereby imposed a license fee on every off-site, multi-user hazardous
waste facility located within the City of Richmond.

(b)	Amount. The license fee authorized pursuant to this section shall not exceed
ten percent of the hazardous waste facility’s annual gross receipts for the
treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste at the facility.

(c)	Payment. The owner of any hazardous waste facility subject to the license fee
authorized by this section shall make quarterly payments. The payments shall be
due and payable ninety days after the end of each quarter of the fiscal year of the
facility. Payments shall be made to the Director of Finance of the City of
Richmond.

(d)	Accounting. The owner of any hazardous waste facility subject to the license
fee authorized by this section shall provide the Director of Finance with a quarterly
financial report which supports the license fee paid. The owner of any hazardous
waste facility subject to the license fee authorized by this section shall also
provide the Director of Finance with the facility’s annual audited financial
statement.

8

7.04.130	Amusements.

Every person engaged in the business of conducting a boxing or wrestling
exhibition, or a skating rink, or a public dance hall, or a sporting event or
commercial show or production of any other commercial entertainment, where a
charge for admission is made, collected or received, either directly or indirectly,
shall pay a license fee which shall be ascertained by multiplying the number of
tickets sold or admissions charged by three cents.

7.04.135	Oil drilling and production.

Every person engaged in the business of drilling or exploring for, or in the
production of, oil, gas or hydrocarbon substances from wells shall pay license fees
in accordance with the following schedules:

(1)	Eighty-three dollars and sixty cents ($83.60) per day for each day of actual
drilling or other work upon each well until the well is placed in production;

(2)	Six hundred sixty-eight dollars and ninety-five cents ($668.95) for each well
during the first year that it is in production and one hundred thirty-three dollars and
seventy-five cents ($133. 75) during each year thereafter that the well is in
production;

(3)	In addition to the fee specified in subsection (2), the sum of fifteen cents
($0.15) per barrel of oil produced from each well, such sum to be computed and
paid monthly within fifteen days after the close of each calendar month.

7.04.136	Bicycles and bicycle establishments.

Every person purchasing a bicycle shall pay a fee of three dollars and thirty-five
cents ($3.35) for the issuance of an initial license; provided that the owner of any
new bicycle shall not have to pay the initial license fee if the bicycle is licensed
within thirty days of the date of the initial purchase of said bicycle. Upon renewal
of the license, the licensee shall pay a fee of one dollar and ten cents ($1.10) and
shall receive a supplemental sticker.

Any bicycle which has not been licensed in violation of the provisions of 7.12.050
shall be subject to a fine of three dollars and thirty-five cents ($3.35) which will be
in addition to the licensing fee.

Upon loss of the license tab, every person shall pay a fee of one dollar and sixty-
five cents ($1.65).

7.04.137	Junkyards.

Each person engaged in the junk business in the City of Richmond shall pay an
initial permit fee of forty-one dollars and eighty cents ($41.80).

7.04.138	Mobilehome parks.

Each person seeking a permit for the operation of a mobilehome park in the city
shall be eighty-three dollars and sixty cents ($83.60) for each mobilehome lot
therein. The annual renewal fee shall be eighty-three dollars and sixty cents
($83.60) for each mobilehome lot therein.

9

7.04.140	No license for charitable institutions, etc.

The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed or construed to require the
payment of a license to conduct, manage or carry on any business, occupation or
activity or require the payment of any license from any institution or organization
which is conducted, managed or carried on wholly for the benefit of charitable
purposes or religious purposes or from which profit is not derived either directly or
indirectly by any person.

No license fee shall be required for the conducting of any entertainment, dance,
concert, exhibit, lecture or other activity by any religious, charitable, fraternal,
educational, student body, military, state, county or municipal organization or
association, whenever the receipts of any such entertainment, dance, concert,
exhibition, lecture or other activity are to be appropriated for the purposes and
objects for which said association or organization was formed and from which
profit is not derived either directly or indirectly by any person.

This exemption shall not apply to any institution or organization which prohibits
membership therein on grounds of race, color, or national origin.

7.04.150	Veterans exemption.

The tax collector, without payment to the City of any consideration, shall issue to
any war veteran as defined in Section 7.04.020 hereof any license provided for in
this chapter subject to the following conditions:

(1)	The person seeking such gratuitous license must make application to the tax
collector giving proof of his identity, residence, service in the Armed Forces of the
United States during the time of war or in a campaign, honorable discharge or
release from such service and interest in the business subject to such license fee;

(2)	That such person, if over the age of twenty-one years, is a registered voter in
the city of Richmond, or, if under the age of twenty-one years, is a bona fide
resident of the city of Richmond;

(3)	That the amount of the exemption allowed any one person within any period of
twelve consecutive months shall not exceed twenty-five dollars, and if such person
has only a partial interest or ownership in a business subject to such license fee,
then the exemption shall not exceed that portion of the license fee which is
proportionate to his interest;

(4)	That no more than three annual exemptions of business license fees, whether
or not the same are in consecutive years, shall be allowed to any one person;
provided that this section shall not apply to those applicants who fall within the
provisions of Section 16001 of the Business and Professions Code of the state of
California.

7.04.152 Gratuitous licenses to indigents, etc.

The tax collector, without payment to the city of any consideration, shall issue to
any disabled war veteran or to any indigent person or to any person who by
reason of the infirmities of age, loss of limb or other disabling cause is unable to
obtain a livelihood by manual labor, or to minors under the age of eighteen years,
any license provided for in this chapter, provided that such applicant is a voter of
the city if over the age of twenty-one years, or, if under the age of twenty-one
years, a resident of the city, and further provided that such applicant does not fall
within the provisions of Section 16001 of the Business and Professions Code of

10

the state of California. Application shall be made to the tax collector for the
gratuitous permit stating the facts relied upon by the applicant. If requested by the
tax collector, written proof of any such facts shall be submitted by the applicant,
including a medical doctor’s certificate of disability, inability to perform manual
labor, infirmity resulting from age, loss of limb or other cause of disability. This
section does not apply to any applicant who employs one or more persons in the
business for which the gratuitous license is sought.

7.04.160	Exemptions.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following individuals,
businesses and organizations:

(1)	Minors under the age of eighteen (18) years;

(2)	Businesses owned and conducted by minors under the age of eighteen (18)
years when legal documentation is provided to support that:

(A)	All persons engaged in the operation of the business are under the age of
eighteen years, and

(B)	All persons engaged in the operation of the business have a bona fide
ownership interest in the business;

(3)	Any public utility paying franchise payments to the City;

(4)	Any person or business paying sums under a contract with the City for the
privilege of collecting solid wastes; or

(5)	Any person or business when the sole income generated within the City by the
person or business does not exceed the sum of six hundred dollars for the fiscal
year. For the purpose of this section, evidence that the income of the business
does not exceed the sum of six hundred dollars for the fiscal year shall be either
the previous year’s tax return for the person or business or, if the person or
business is new to the City of Richmond, a signed declaration stating that the
person or business does not anticipate that the income generated within the city
will exceed six hundred dollars for the fiscal year.

(6)	Any person or business when the sole income generated within the City of
Richmond by the person or business is the income from a single contract with the
City of Richmond when the amount of said contract does not exceed (and never
exceeds) the sum of five thousand dollars in any single fiscal year.

7.04.161	Intercity transportation business.

Commencing on July 1, 1971, and continuing during the effectiveness of the
Highway Carriers' Uniform License Tax provided for in Chapter 3 (Section 4303 et
seq) of Division 2 of the California Public Utilities Code, no business license fees
shall be required for the following types of enterprises covered by said Chapter 3:
Intercity transportation business of any express corporation, freight forwarder,
motor transportation broker, or person or corporation, owning or operating motor
vehicles in the transportation of property for hire upon the public highways, under
the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission.

7.04.170	Licenses, contents of.

All licenses shall be prepared and issued by the tax collector upon the payment of
the sum herein required to be paid therefore. Each license so issued shall state
upon the face thereof the following:

11

(1)	The name of the person to whom it is issued.

(2)	The kind of business license.

(3)	The location of such business.

(4)	The date of expiration of such license.

7.04.180	Tax collector not required to send bill.

The tax collector is not required to send a notice or bill to any person subject to
the provisions of this chapter, and failure to send such notice or bill shall not affect
the validity of and license fee due hereunder.

7.04.190	Posting and keeping licenses.

All licenses must be kept and posted in the following manner:

(1)	Any licensee engaged in business at a fixed place of business in the city shall
keep the license posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises where such
business is carried on.

(2)	Any licensee engaged in business but not operating at a fixed place of
business in the city shall keep the license upon his person at all times while
engaged in such business.

7.04.200	Duplicate licenses.

A duplicate license may be issued by the tax collector to replace any license
previously issued hereunder, which has been lost or destroyed, upon licensee’s
filing an affidavit attesting to such fact, and at the time of filing such affidavit,
paying to the tax collector a duplicate license fee of forty-five dollars and fifteen
cents ($45.15).

7.04.210	No license transferable-Exception-Amended license for changed
location.

No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable, provided that a
license to a person engaged in the business of peddler or solicitor issued pursuant
to Section 7.04.100 of this chapter, the fee of which was paid by the employee of
such licensee, may be transferred to another employee of the person having paid
said fee in the event of termination of the employment of the original licensee
upon application therefore and payment of a transfer fee of thirty six dollar and
seventy-five cents ($36.75) and provided further that when a license pursuant to
any provision of this chapter is issued authorizing a person to carry on a business
at a particular place, such licensee may, upon application therefore and paying a
fee of thirty six dollar and seventy-five cents ($36.75) have the license amended to
authorize the carrying on of such business at some other location within the city of
Richmond to which the business is or is to be moved.

7.04.220	Separate license for each place of business or branch.

A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or location of
the business engaged in and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage
only in the business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated
in such license; provided that warehouses and distributing plants used in
connection with and incidental to businesses licensed under this chapter shall not
be deemed to be separate places of business or branch establishments.

7.04.230	Two or more businesses at same location.

Whenever any person is engaged in two or more businesses at the same location
and under the same management, such person shall not be required to obtain a
license for the carrying on of each of such businesses, but shall be issued a joint
license, and the sum of the average number of employees of all of such
businesses so carried on by him shall be used as the basis for computing the
amount of license fee to be paid for the carrying on of all such businesses;
provided that when two or more businesses are carried on at the same location
under different managements, the person managing each business shall obtain a
separate license for his respective business at such location.

7.04.240	License fees paid in advance.

Except for monthly license fees payable on or before the tenth day of the
succeeding month, all license fees shall be paid in advance. For annual business
licenses, license fees are due and payable on or before March 15 of the year for
which the license is issued. For all other business licenses, licenses fees are due
and payable on or before the date of issuance.

7.04.250	Unexpired license heretofore issued.

Where a license for any business has been issued by the city of Richmond and
fee paid therefore under the provisions of any ordinance heretofore enacted, and
term of such license has not expired, then the license fee prescribed for the
business by this chapter shall not be payable until the expiration of the term of
such unexpired license.

7.04.260	Quarterly licenses.

Any business not otherwise provided for in this Article VII and without a place of
business in the city to engage in business activities, may obtain a quarterly (91
days) license for seventy five dollars and twenty-five cents ($75.25) as the basic
license fee plus an additional sum based upon the rate of twenty-five percent of
the per-employee fees specified in Section 7.04.030.

13

7.04.270 Refunds due to action of public agency.

The tax collector shall refund a portion of license fees paid by any licensee whose
business is terminated by the action of any public agency authorized by law to
exercise its right of eminent domain, and who does not relocate within the city of
Richmond. Such licensee must first file with the tax collector a written request for
such refund. The amount to be refunded in any such case shall be determined by
determining the number of days in the license period for which the license fee was
paid, treating as earned the number of days of such period which have elapsed up
to and including the date of cancellation of such license, and treating as unearned
the number of days of such period following said date. The amount to be refunded
shall be in proportion to the total license fee paid as the unearned number of days
bears to the total of days in such license period.

7.04.280 No license issued to applicant in arrears.

No license for any ensuing, current or unexpired license period shall knowingly be
issued to any person who at the time of making application there for is indebted to
the city for any unpaid license fee.

7.04.290 Delinquency.

Any person who fails to file any required statement and pay the amount of the
license fee prescribed in this chapter within thirty (30) days after it becomes due
shall be deemed delinquent and shall be assessed the following penalty:

(1)	Ten percent of the license fee if the payment is made within one to thirty days
after it became delinquent;

(2)	Twenty-five percent of the license fee if the payment is made within thirty-one
to sixty days after it became delinquent; and

(3)	Fifty percent of the license fee if the payment is made more than sixty days
after it became delinquent. Such penalty shall become part of the license fee then
required to be paid under this chapter, and if such delinquency continues
thereafter, such person shall be subject to all further penal provisions and
remedies contained in this chapter.

7.04.300 Sworn statements.

At the time of applying for a license under this chapter, if applicant has been
engaged in a business in the city for one year, he shall file a sworn statement
verifying the accuracy of the calculations used in determining the license fee
payable hereunder.

7.04.310 Statements not conclusive.

No such statement shall be conclusive as to the matters set forth therein, nor shall
the filing of the same preclude the city from collecting by appropriate action such
sum as is actually due and payable under this chapter. Such statement and each
of the several items therein contained shall be subject to audit and verification by
the tax collector, who is authorized to examine, audit, and inspect such books and

14

records of any licensee or applicant for license as may be necessary in his
judgment to verify or ascertain the amount of license fee due.

All licensees, applicants for licenses, and persons engaged in business in the city
are required to permit an examination of such books and records for the purposes
aforesaid. The information or data obtained from such examination or audit, or
from any statement required under this chapter shall be used for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter and for no other purpose.

7.04.320 Rules and regulations for enforcement.

The tax collector is authorized to make such rules and regulations as may be
necessary to aid or assist in enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, such rules and
regulations may include withholding issuance of a business license or revoking an
existing license when the underlying activity violates the Municipal Code or any
state or federal law.

7.04.330 Enforcement.

It shall be the duty of the tax collector to enforce each and all of the provisions of
this chapter, and the Chief of Police shall render such assistance as may from
time to time be required by the Tax Collector.

The Tax Collector in the exercise of his duties and acting through his deputies or
any duly authorized City employee shall investigate all businesses hereby
licensed to ascertain whether or not the provisions of this chapter are being
complied with.

The Tax Collector and his deputies and any police officer shall have the authority
to enter free of charge at any reasonable time any place of business required to
have a license hereunder, and to demand exhibition of such license. Any person
having any such license in his possession or under his control, who fails to exhibit
the same on demand, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
accordingly.

7.04.340 Additional power of tax collector.

In addition to all other powers conferred upon him, the Tax Collector shall have
the power, for good cause shown, to extend the time for filing any required sworn
statement for a period not exceeding thirty days, and in such case to waive any
penalty that would otherwise have accrued; and shall have the further power, with
the consent of the Council, to compromise any claim as to amount of license fee
due.

7.04.350 Remedies cumulative.

The conviction and punishment of any person for engaging in any business
without obtaining a license so to do shall not relieve such person from paying the
license fee due and unpaid at the time of such conviction, nor shall the payment of
any license fee prevent a criminal prosecution for the violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter. All remedies prescribed herein shall be cumulative and

15

the use of one or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other
remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.

7.04.360 No under or over payment to be received.

No person charged with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall knowingly accept or receive any sum for any license which is less than or
greater than the amount actually required to be paid under the provisions of this
chapter.

7.04.370 Unlawful business.

No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be construed as
authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business.

7.04.380 Unlawful burden.

Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring a license or the payment of a
license fee, or the doing of any act which would constitute an unlawful burden
upon or an unlawful interference with interstate or foreign commerce, or which
would be in violation of the Constitution or laws of the United States of America or
the Constitution or laws of the State of California.

7.04.385 Business License Fee Not A Property Tax

The payment of any amount under this chapter measure by the value of any
tangible or other property is not a tax on such property, but is a tax on the
business undertaken by the taxpayer measured by the value of such property
actually used in the business.

7.04.390 Regulatory provisions of other chapters remain.

Any person required to pay a license fee for any business under this chapter shall
be relieved from the payment of any license fee for the privilege of doing such
business which has been required under any other law of the City of Richmond,
but shall remain subject to the regulatory provisions of such other law.

7.04.400 Suit for recovery of unpaid sums.

Any sum required to be paid hereunder shall be deemed a debt to the City and
any person who engages in any business required to be licensed hereunder
without obtaining a license so to do shall be liable to an action by and in the name
of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for recovery of any such sum.

7.04.410 Failure to file statement or corrected statement.

If any person fails to file any required statement within the time prescribed hereby,
or if after demand therefore made by the Tax Collector he fails to file a corrected
statement, the Tax Collector may determine the amount of license fee due from
such person by means of such information as he may be able to obtain.

16

In case such a determination is made the Tax Collector shall give a notice of the
amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United
States Post Office at Richmond, California, postage prepaid, addressed to the
person so assessed at his last known address. Such person may, within ten days
after the mailing or serving of such notice, make application in writing to the Tax
Collector for a hearing on the amount of the license fee. If such application is not
made within the time prescribed the assessment shall become final. If such
application is made within the time prescribed, the Tax Collector must cause the
matter to be set for hearing within fifteen days before the City Council. The
Council shall consider all evidence produced, and written notice of its findings
thereon, which findings shall be final, shall be served upon the applicant in the
manner prescribed above for service of notice of assessment.

(Source: Ordinance No. 8-03 N.S.)

7.04.420 Review By City Audit Committee

[New] The Audit Committee appointed by the City Council shall annually review
the collection of the taxes levied under this chapter and shall issue a report to the
City Council, no later than 120 days after the close of each Fiscal Year,
concerning the amount collected during such fiscal year and the impact on the
City’s ability to provide needed services, facilities and community improvements.
Such report may include recommendations for the allocation of funds from future
collections, subject to the approval of the City Council

Section 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such a decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Ordinance. The People hereby declares that they would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase of this ordinance, irrespective of the unconstitutionality or invalidity of
any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase.

Section 3 Effective Date. If approved by majority of the voters of the City of
Richmond at the November 4, 2008 election, as certified by the City Council, this
Ordinance shall become effective on January 1, 2009

17