<full> ORDINANCE NO. 1676

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF AMADOR IMPOSING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USETAX FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND
EMERGENCY RESPONSE SERVICES TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, AND ADDING
CHAPTER 3.14 TO THE AMADOR COUNTY CODE

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Amador, State of California

does ordain as follows:	,	,	,

SECTION 1 The Amador County Code is hereby amended
by the addition of Chapter 3.14, which shall read as follows:

“3 14 010 Title and Effect. This chapter shall be known as
the County of Amador Fire Protection and Emergency Response
Services Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The County of Amador
hereinafter shall be called “County" This chapter shall be applicable
in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County. This
chapter shall complement, and not replace or supersede, the
County’s existing sales and use tax, as such tax is described in

Chapter 3.12 of this code.

3 14 020. Operative Date. “Operative Date means the first
day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days
after the adoption of this chapter, the date of such adoption being
as set forth below. If this chapter is approved by the voters at the
November 2008 election, the Operative Date shall be April 1,2009.

3.14.030. Purpose. This chapter is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and the Board of Supervisors
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish

those purposes:	.	,	_

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance

with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 72511) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285,5
of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the County to adopt this
chapter, which shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting
on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose. The tax imposed by this Chapter
to be known as the “Fire Protection and Emergency Response
Services Tax,” shall be applicable in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County and is a special tax for the
purpose of funding fire protection and emergency response services
in accordance with the Expenditure Plan set forth in this Chapter

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax
Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part

1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that can
be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under

the provisions of this chapter.

3.14.040 Expenditure Plan. The proceeds of the Fire

Protection and Emergency Response Services Tax will be spent on
one or more of the activities set forth in this Section 3.14.040. This
Expenditure Plan is established for the purpose of establishing a
countywide fire protection and emergency medical services (EMS)
response system that supports the volunteer base of existing fire
districts and agencies by providing funds for the following activities.

A.	Payment of salaries, benefits and administrative support for
paid fire fighter-emergency medical response personnel to staff
existing fire stations ; and	

B.	Support, maintenance and enhancement of volunteer fire
fighter-emergency response service personnel by funding volunteer
insurance, training and incentive programs

Each fire department or district will be responsible for its annual
budget and associated implementation strategies within the limitations
of the Expenditure Plan. The Amador Fire Protection Authority (AFPA)
will review the proposed annual allocation of proceeds to each
department or district, for recommendation to the Board of
Supervisors, which proceeds shall be allocated in accordance with Section 3.14.050.

3.14.050 Allocation of Proceeds. The proceeds of the hire
Protection and Emergency Response Services Tax will be allocated
to each fire department or district (Amador Fire Protection District,
lone Fire Department, Jackson Fire Department, Jackson Valley Fire
District, Lockwood Fire District, Plymouth Fire Department, Sutter
Creek Fire District) based on the following criteria:

A.	Each fire department or district in the County will receive a

base allocation of $50,000 annually,

B.	The remaining funds will be prorated among each entity based

on the total population and call volume, verified annually as of July
1 of each year.	

The Board of Supervisors may amend this section 3.14.050 to reflect

a change in the number of fire departments or districts within the

3.14.060. Contract With State. Prior to the operative date,
the County shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of
this transactions and use tax chapter; provided, that if the County
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior
to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such
a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3,14.070. Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon
all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
County at the rate of .50% of the gross receipts of any retailer from
the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory
on and after the operative date of this chapter.

3.14.080. Plane Of Sale. For the purposes of this chapter,
all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place
to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the State or has more than one place of business
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummatedI shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.14.090. Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed
on the storage, use or other consumption in the County of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption
in said territory at the rate of .50% of the sales price of the property.
The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.	

3. 14. 100 Adoption Of Provisions Of State_Law. Except

as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein,

3. 14. 110. Limitations On Adoption Of State Law AND
Collection Of Use Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 or
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred
to as the taxing agency, the name of this County shall be substitute
therefor However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title
of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State
Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this County or any agency officer
or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.	.	,	,	,

3.	In those sections, including, but not

necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries
of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:	Provide an	exemption	from	this	tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of

Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b. Impose this tax with respect to

certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the

said provision of that code.

4 In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code

B. The word “County” shall be substituted for the

word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State
in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3 14 120 Permit Not Required, if a seller's permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this

chapter.	,	,	.

3 14 130 Exemptions And Exclusions.

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use
tax imposed by the State of California or by any city city and county
or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.
B. There are  exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other

than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft be used
or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. 

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the
County which is shipped to a point outside the County, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his

agent or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery
to a point outside the County shall be satisfied:

a.	With	respect	to vehicles (other than

commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-County address and by a declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address

is in fact his or her principal place of residence; and
’	b.	With	respect	to commercial vehicles,

by registration to a place of business out-of-County and declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will

be operated from that address.

H	3	The sale of tangible personal property if the

seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter.

4 A lease of tangible personal property which
is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which
the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
the lease prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5. For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and
(4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or ease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.  There are exempted from the use tax imposed
by this chapter, the storage, use or other consumption in this County
of tangible personal property:	

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which

have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered

transactions and use tax chapter.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products

purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided
in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of

the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the

property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior

to the operative date of this chapter.	,

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any

right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a
lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period
of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this chapter. 

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and
(4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession
of or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or ease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a
retailer engaged in business in the County shall not be required to
collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or
participates within the County in making the sale of the property
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
County or through any representative, agent, canvasser solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the County
shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance

with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840)
of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel,

or aircraft at an address in the County.	,

D Any person subject to use tax under this chapter
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement
for transactions tax paid to a County imposing, or retailer table or
a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.14.140.  Amendments. All amendments subsequent
to the effective date of this chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 16
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this chapter provided however, that
no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this chapter.

3.14.150. Enjoining Collection Forbidden, No injunction or
writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
County, or against any officer of the State or the County, to prevent
or enjoin the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected."

SECTION 2. If any provision of this ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision
to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 3. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the Fire Protection and Emergency Response Services
Tax and, if adopted by the voters, shall take effect ten days after
the vote is declared by the legislative body, pursuant to the provisions
of Elections Code sections 9217 and 15400.

The foregoing ordinance was duly passed and adopted by the
Board of Supervisors of the County of Amador at a regular meeting
thereof, held on the 24*' day of June 2008 by the following vote:

AYES:	Richard M. Forster, Theodore Novel Louis D. Boitano, Rich F. Escamilla, and Brian Oneto
NOES:	None
ABSENT:	None
	si Richard M. Forster

Chairman, Board of Supervisors

ATTEST:

JENNIFER BURNS, Clerk of the

Board of Supervisors, Amador County, California

s/ Jennifer Burns <fullend>







<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M,

“AMADOR FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY
RESPONSE SAFETY MEASURE”

The Amador Fire Protection and Emergency Response Safety
Measure proposes to raise revenue for the purpose of funding fire
protection and emergency services response personnel by imposing
a %-cent sales (transactions and use) tax and approving Ordinance
No. 1676 adopted by the Board of Supervisors. The tax would be
paid in addition to current state and local sales taxes, and would
be collected at the same time and in the same manner as existing
sales taxes.

This tax will be effective only if Ordinance No. 1676 is approved by
a two-thirds majority of the qualified voters voting on Measure M.
If approved by the voters, the sales tax will become effective on
April 1, 2009. The tax will be imposed throughout Amador County,
including each city and the unincorporated area.

Measure M is a tax for specific purposes, which means that the
proceeds received from the tax can be used only for the specific
purposes in the ordinance. Under the ordinance, proceeds will be
used for payment of salaries, benefits and administrative support
for paid fire fighter-emergency medical response personnel at
existing fire stations, as well as volunteer insurance, training and
incentive programs. The proceeds will be divided among Amador
Fire Protection District, lone Fire Department, Jackson Fire
Department, Jackson Valley Fire District, Lockwood Fire District,
Plymouth Fire Department, and Sutter Creek Fire District according
to a formula described in the ordinance. The Board of Supervisors
may amend the ordinance if there is an increase or decrease in the
number of fire districts and departments in the County.

This special tax will be permanent. It will be collected until it is
repealed by the voters. <impartialend>





<impartialsigs> si Martha Jeanne Shaver
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<fiscal> FISCAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY AUDITOR-CONTROLLER
AMADOR COUNTY MEASURE M

Amador County will impose a Vz cent fire protection and
emergency medical response services transaction and use tax if
approved by the voters on November 4, 2008 and will take effect
beginning April 1, 2009. The revenues raised will be approximately
$2,400,000 for the fiscal year 2009-10 for fire protection and
emergency medical response services. <fiscalend>





<fiscalsigs> s/ Joe Lowe
Amador County Auditor-Controller <fiscalsigsend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

Measure M will help save lives and keep families safe.

All communities in Amador County rely largely on volunteers to
fight fires and respond to emergencies. Measure M will provide
necessary funding for paid fire/emergency medical personnel to
improve these emergency services.

Measure M will provide funding for personnel to allow for 24/7
coverage in existing fire stations across our county. These emergency
responders will help our volunteer firefighters, no matter the time
or day of the week.

Last year, our dedicated volunteers responded to over 3,800
calls for help. It has become increasingly difficult for these volunteers
to sacrifice time away from their job and families to help our
community. Our volunteer firefighters need our help.

That’s why we need Measure M.

Measure M will approve a Vz cent increase in our local sales tax
to enable our county to support our volunteers with paid firefighters.
For every ten dollars spent on goods in Amador County, only 5 cents
will be spent to pay for fire protection - a small price to pay to keep
our families safe.

Vote Yes on Measure M to ensure that the many visitors and
tourists to Amador pay a share in providing fire and emergency
medical services in the County.

The challenge we face as a community is what to do if an
emergency occurs and we don’t have enough volunteer firefighters
close by to deal with a life threatening situation. Measure M is the
right solution.

Please join local fire and law enforcement leaders, teachers, and
small business owners from across Amador County and vote Yes
on Measure M, The peace of mind that comes with knowing a fire
department will be available to save a house or a life or both is
more than worth the price.

si Charles “Butch” Martin, Fire Chief, Sutter Creek FPD
si Alan C, Lennox, President, American Legion Ambulance <favorend>




<favorsigs> /s/ Ray Blankenheim, Battalion Chief (Pine Grove and East)

Amador Fire District

/s/ Lee Ard, Vice Mayor lone

/s/ Paul Molinelli, Jr., Business owner;

Past Pres. Chamber of Commerce <favorsigsend>





NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

