CITY OF SEBASTOPOL
MEASURE M

To help preserve Sebastopol’s safety and quality of life

Mand maintain essential general fund services such as
police, fire, and street maintenance, shall an ordinance
be adopted to establish a utility tax to be known as the
“Utility Users Tax” on gas and electric service only, that cannot
exceed four percent and this is limited to six years and providing
for the collection of same with certain exemptions and conditions?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

Measure M seeks voter approval of a Utility Users Tax Ordinance. If passed, the
Ordinance would impose a four percent (4%) utility user tax based on charges to
residential and commercial customers for electric and gas utilities. The tax would
automatically expire after six years, and could only be extended with an additional
vote of the people.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

Over the past 18 years, the State of California has diverted $3.2 million of local tax
dollars to balance their budgets. During this time, the City of Sebastopol has de-
ferred capital maintenance on streets and buildings while maintaining city services.
Over time, the ability to compensate for a lower tax revenue has also been eroded
to the point that the City needs to ask residents to approve a local tax measure that
will be spent locally to pay for deferred capital items and sustain the current level of
municipal services.

If the voters of Sebastopol approve a utility tax of 4%, it will generate approximately
$375,000. The average cost to a residential customer would be $4.48 per month
and the average commercial customer will see $25.84 per month increase. This is
a small price to pay over the next six years to make improvements to our streets,
parks and municipal buildings. These funds will also ensure that the municipal ser-
vices are maintained during the current economic slump.

In order to minimize the impact on our residents, the tax would exempt low income
households participating in the PG&E California Alternate Rates for Energy
(CARE) program and would no longer be collected on any accounts after six years.

The Ordinance generally provides for the tax to be collected by utility companies
and paid as part of regular utility bills. It is expected to raise approximately
$375,000. The average cost to a residential utility user would be $4.48 per month,
and the average cost to a business utility user would be $25.84 per month. These
averages are based on bills from all PG&E customers, and individual bills will vary
based on actual consumption of gas and electricity. The Ordinance provides an ex-
emption to low-income utility users who are participating in the PG&E California
Alternate Rates for Energy (“CARE") program.

Please join us in voting to support our community with this locally controlled reve-
nue that will protect our common safety and community streets and facilities.

SEBASTOPOL CITY COUNCIL
s/ Craig Litwin, Mayor

SEBASTOPOL COMMUNITY CENTER
s/ Kim Caruso, Executive Director

SEBASTOPOL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
s/Teresa Ramondo, Executive Director

s/Terry Kelley
Citizen

The Utility Users Tax would be a general tax, and as such must be approved by a
simple majority of the voters voting in the election. The proceeds of the tax, as a
general tax, will be deposited in the City’s general fund and used for general gov-
ernmental purposes, such as police and fire protection services, and street and
park maintenance.

NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED AGAINST MEASURE M

A “yes” vote is a vote to adopt a Utility Users Tax on the use of electricity and gas in
the City of Sebastopol, at a rate not to exceed 4%, for a period of 6 years, for gen-
eral fund purposes. A “no" vote is a vote not to adopt a Utility Users Tax.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure M. The definition of each
utility service and a description of how the tax is calculated and collected are more
particularly described in the Ordinance. If you desire a copy of the Ordinance,
please contact the City Clerk’s office at 7120 Bodega Avenue, Sebastopol, CA
95472, phone number (707) 823-1153, e-mail maourlev@sonic.net. and a copy
will be sent at no cost to you. In addition, you can read the complete text of the Ordi-
nance on the City's web site at http://www.ci.sebastoDol.ca.us.

si Larry McLaughlin, City Attorney

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE M

ORDINANCE NUMBER_________________

An Ordinance of the City of Sebastopol Imposing a Utility Users Tax
The People of the City of Sebastopol Do Ordain as Follows:

Chapter 3.10 UTILITY USERS TAX Sebastopol City Code
Title 3 REVENUE AND FINANCE
Chapter 3.10 UTILITY USERS TAX
3.10.010 Title.

This chapter shall be known as the Utility Users Tax Ordinance of the City of
Sebastopol.

3.10.020 Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this section
govern the construction of this chapter.

(A)	“Person” means any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, association, syn-
dicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, business or
common-law trust, society, individual or municipal corporation.

(B)	“City” means the City of Sebastopol.

(C)	“State” means the State of California.

(D)	“Electrical corporation" and “gas corporation” have the same meanings as
defined in Sections 234,222,218 and 215.5, respectively, of the Public Utilities
Code of the State of California, as said sections existed on July 21,1970. “Electri-
cal corporation" also means any organization or municipality or agency engaged in
the selling or supplying of electrical power to a service user.

(E)	“Tax Administrator” means the Administrative Services Director of the City of
Sebastopol.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

65

9625

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE M, CONT.

(F)	“Service supplier” means a person required to collect and remit a tax im-
posed by this chapter.

(G)	“Service user” means a person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter.

(H)	“Month” means a calendar month.

(I)	“CPI” means the Bay Area Consumer Price Index for urban workers.

(J)	“CHARGES” means the total billing of gas and electrical usage of the utility
customer. -

3.10.030 Rules and regulations.

The Tax Administrator shall have power to adopt rules and regulations not in-
consistent with the provisions of this chapter for the purpose of carrying out and
enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the tax herein imposed; and
a copy of such rules and regulations shall be on file and available for public ex-
amination in the Tax Administrator’s office. Failure or refusal to comply with any
rules and regulations promulgated under this chapter shall be deemed a violation
of this chapter.

3.10.040 Records.

It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to the City any tax
imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve fora period of three years all records
as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he may have been
liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records
the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

3.10.060 Electricity users tax.

(A)	There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using electrical energy
in the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of four percent of
the charges made for such energy and shall be paid by the person paying for such
energy. “Charges” as used in this section shall include charges made for: (1) metered
energy, and (2) minimum charges for service, including customer charges, service
charges, demand charges, standby charges and annual and monthly charges.

(B)	As used in this section, the term “using electrical energy” shall not be
construed to mean the storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or pos-
sessed by him for use in an automobile or other machinery or device apart from the
premises upon which the energy was received; provided, however, that the term
shall include the receiving of such energy forthe purpose of using it in the charging of
batteries; nor shall the term include the mere receiving of such energy by an elec-
tric public utility or governmental agency at a point within the City for resale.

(C)	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this
section is computed, charges made by a municipal light or power department, or
electric public utility for electrical energy used and consumed by such department
or utility for electrical power in the conduct of the business of such department or
utility.

(D)	Qualified persons who participate in Pacific Gas and Electric’s (PG&E)
“CARE” program (California alternate rates for energy) or a substantially similar
successor program for that same purpose, are exempt from the electricity users
tax.

3.10.070	Gas users tax.

(A)	There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using in the City gas
which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall be
at the rate of four percent of the charges made for such gas and shall be paid by the
person paying for such gas.

(B)	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this chap-
ter is computed:

(1)	Charges made for gas to be used in the generation of electrical energy by an
electrical corporation; and

(2)	Charges made by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in the con-
duct of the business of gas public utilities.

(C)	Qualified persons who participate in PG&E’s “CARE" program (California al-
ternate rates for energy) ora substantially similar successor program for that same
purpose, are exempt from the gas users tax.

3.10.071	Charges.

Should “Charges" total less than $50.00 during any one month billing period,
there shall be imposed a minimum Utility Users Tax of $2.00 on that billing.

3.10.090 Exemptions.

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person if
imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution of
the United States or the Constitution of the State of California.

3.10.100 Collection of tax.

(A)	Every person receiving payment of charges from a service user shall collect
the amount of tax imposed by this chapter from the service user.

(B)	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and
along with the collection of charges made in accordance with the regular billing
practice of the service supplier. Except in those cases where a service user pays
the full amount of said charges but does not pay any portion of a tax imposed by
this chapter, or where a service user has notified a service supplier that he is refus-
ing to pay a tax imposed by this chapter which said service supplier is required to
collect if the amount paid by a service user is less than the full amount of the charge
and tax which has accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of both the
charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid.

(C)	The duty to collect the tax from a service user shall commence with the be-
ginning of the first regular billing period applicable to that person which starts on or
after the operative date of this chapter. Where a person receives more than one
billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall
arise separately for each billing period.

3.10.110 Reporting and remitting.

Each service supplier shall, on or before the last day of each month, make a
return to the Tax Administrator, stating the amount of taxes billed by the service
supplier during the preceding month. At the time the return is filed, the full amount
of the tax collected shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administra-
tor is authorized to require such further information as he deems necessary to
properly determine if the tax imposed in this chapter is being levied and collected in
accordance with this chapter. Returns and remittances are due immediately upon
cessation of business for any reason. The Tax Administrator shall deposit all taxes
received under the provisions of this chapter in the City’s general fund.

3.10.120 Assessment—Administrative remedy.

(A)	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not paid or remit-
ted by a person required to pay or remit. He shall prepare a notice of the assess-
ment which shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes and penalties imposed and
the time and place where such assessment is payable which shall be submitted to
the City Council for confirmation or modification. The Tax Administrator shall mail a
copy of such notice to the person selling the service and to the service user at least
10 days prior to the date of the hearing and shall post such notice for at least five
continuous days prior to the date of the hearing on the official bulletin board of the
City. Any interested party having any objections may appear and be heard at the
hearing provided his objection is filed in writing with the Tax Administrator prior to
the time set for the hearing. At the time fixed for considering said assessment, the
City Council shall hear the same together with any objection filed as aforesaid they
thereupon may confirm or modify said assessment by motion.

3.10.122 Authorization to Temporarily Suspend Collection of A Portion of Tax for
Limited Periods of Time.

(A)	The Tax Administrator may determine to collect less than the four percent
(4%) tax imposed by sections 3.10.060 and 3.10.070 from gas and electric service
providers and may temporarily suspend a portion of the 4% tax imposed by sec-
tions 3.10.060 and 3.10.070 if the Tax Administrator finds that the total utility users
tax collected from all sources increased in a given fiscal year at a rate higher than
the CPI, after accounting for the City's population growth (as determined by the
increase in City water and sewer accounts) and the City's gas and electric ex-
penses. For purposes of this subsection, “City’s gas and electric expenses” shall
mean the total payments by the City of Sebastopol its gas and electric providers,
for gas and electric services provided to the City.

(B)	The portion of the 4% UUT rate to be temporarily suspended shall be equal to
the increase in total utility users tax, as adjusted in subsection (A) above. If the
newly calculated rate is equal to 3.94% or lower, then a rate reduction may occur. If
the calculated rate is 3.95% or greater, then no adjustment will take place.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

66

9625

j

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE M, CONT.

Pursuant to section 3.10.030, the Tax Administrator may adopt an administrative
rule(s) implementing section 3.10.122 in a reasonable manner consistent with the
intent of this Section 3.10.122.

(C)	The Tax Administrator may determine, following the end of the fiscal year,
whether a temporary suspension should be made in accordance with this section
and any administrative rule(s). If the Tax Administrator determines that a tempo-
rary suspension of a portion of the 4% tax rate for gas and/or electric UUT will take
place, the Tax Administrator shall instruct the affected gas and electric service pro-
viders to implement the temporary suspension on January 1 of the next year. The
duration of the temporary suspension shall be one (1) year.

(D)	Upon expiration of the temporary suspension of a portion of the gas and elec-
tric utility users tax, the original provisions of this Chapter shall have the same force
and effect as if the temporary suspension had not been enacted. Nothing herein is
intended to constitute a decrease in a tax, or an increase ima tax, requiring election
approval under California Constitution Article XIIIC; and to the extent that any as-
pect of a temporary suspension resolution is found to invoke such a requirement,
the entire temporary suspension resolution shall be deemed null and void ab initio,
and there shall be no entitlement to a suspension for any service user.

3.10.130 Refunds.

(A)	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator
under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this section.

(B)	A person required to collect and remit taxes imposed under this chapter may
claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected and remitted the amount
overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received
when it is established in a manner prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the ser-
vice user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided, how-
ever, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax
so collected has either been refunded to the service user or credited to charges
subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and remit

(C)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claim-
ant establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto. No
refund shall be paid unless a claim therefor is made within one year of the date of
accrual of the refund.

3.10.140 Termination of Utility Users Tax.

(A)	The levy of taxes as provided in this Chapter shall expire on January 1,2015,
unless re-enacted by a separate ordinance of the City Council following a majority
vote of the electorate.

(B)	The termination of the levy of taxes as provided herein shall not terminate the
obligation to pay taxes levied on services used prior to such date. Taxes levied
prior to such date shall remain a debt payable to the City. All provisions in this
Chapter, except those relating to the levy of taxes, shall continue in full force and
effect after such date.

3.10.150 Penalties.

(A)	Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the Tax Admin-
istrator on or before the due dates provided in this chapter are delinquent.

(B)	Penalties for delinquency in remittance of any tax collected or any deficiency
determination, shall attach and be paid by the person required to collect and remit
at the rate of 15 percent of the total tax collected or imposed herein.

(C)	The Tax Administrator shall have power to impose additional penalties upon
a person required to collect and remit taxes under the provisions of this chapter for
fraud or negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of 15 percent of the amount
of the tax collected or as re-computed by the Tax Administrator.

(D)	Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this chapter shall become a
part of the tax required to be remitted.

3.10.160 Actions to collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user underthe provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected
from a service user which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be
deemed a debt owed to the City by the persons required to collect and remit. Any
person owing money to the City underthe provisions of this chapter shall be liable
to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount.

3.10.170 Failure to pay tax—Administrative remedy.

Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately
withheld the amount of the tax owed by him from the amounts remitted to pay a ser-
vice supplier, or that a service user has failed to pay the amount of the tax for a pe-
riod of two or more billing periods, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in
the best interest of the City, he may relieve the service supplier of the obligation to
collect taxes due under this chapter, from certain service users for specified billing
periods. The Tax Administrator shall notify the service user that he has assumed
responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment
of such taxes.

The notice shall be served on the service user by handing it to him personally or
by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, ad-
dressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made by the service
supplier; or should the service user have changed his address, to his last known
address. If a service user failed to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within 15
days from the date of the service of the notice upon him, which shall be the date of
mailing if service is not accomplished in person, a penalty of 25 percent of the
amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than five
dollars. The penalty shall become part of the tax herein required to be paid.

3.10.180 Severability.

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter or any
part thereof. The City Council declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespec-
tive of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, para-
graphs, sentences, clauses or phrases is declared unconstitutional.

Approved/Not Approved by the Voters of the City of Sebastopol at the November4,
2008 Election

If the majority of qualified electors voting on the initiative measure shall vote in the
favor thereof, the initiative measure shall become a valid and binding ordinance of
the City of Sebastopol, and shall be considered adopted upon the date that the vote
is declared by the City Council of said City and shall go into effect 10 days later.

67

Sonoma County

9625