MEASUREY

“To maintain educational excellence, high academic standards, small classes, improve reading and writing, offer music, art language, provide student
access to computers, maintain science, math and other classroom needs, attract/retain high quality teachers, shall the Bayshore Elementary School District
cause a parcel tax of $96 be levied beginning July 1,2009 and extending for a period of six [6] years, with annual adjustment for inflation, with exemptions
for residents 65 and older and with public accountability measures?”

FULLTEXT

BAYSHORE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX

Terms. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this
measure, shall the Bayshore Elementary School District levy a qualified
special tax of $96 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the
District, commencing July 1, 2009 and extending for a period of six [6]
years. The Governing Board shall cause the tax to be levied at the adjusted
amount, or at such lesser amount in any year in which the Board deems
such reduced amount sufficient and appropriate to meet the District’s
budgetary needs, or believes such reduced amount is appropriate in
reaction to State budget changes. The tax shall be adjusted annually
consistent with the consumer price index for the San Francisco Bay Area
for the prior year.

Purposes. The purposes of the qualified special tax shall be to
improve children’s academic performance, maintain and class size,
improve teaching quality and maintain a full spectrum of classes by
undertaking actions as funding allows to:

•	Maintain reduced class sizes at all grade levels;

•	Attract and retain high quality personnel;

•	Provide classroom resources to help those students who are
struggling in basic skills like math, reading and writing;

•	Integrate the use of technology into the curriculum and
instructional practices;

•	Provide a full spectrum of instructional opportunities in such
classes as art, music, foreign language and science;

•	Ensure that teachers are well-trained and use the most
effective techniques for the teaching of math, reading and
science.

•	Continue to provide a physical education program and
inter-school sports program.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior
citizens in the community, an exemption shall be granted for any parcel
owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who occupies said
parcel as a principal residence and who submits an annual application for
exemption.

Other Exemptions. All property that is otherwise exempt from ad
valorem property taxes shall also be exempt from this special tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of this special tax, the
Governing Board shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the
proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the special account remain
unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District
shall cause a report to be filed with the Board of Education no later than
December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2009, stating (1)
the amount of funds collected and expended in such year, and (2) the status
of any projects or description of any programs funded from the proceeds of

the tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may
be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other
appropriate routine report to the Governing Board.

Specific Purposes. Proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only
for the purposes listed above.

Appropriations Limit. The Board of Education shall provide in each
year (pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the Government Code or any successor
provision of law) for any increase in the District’s appropriations limit as
shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds of the special tax may be spent
for the authorized purposes, and an election shall be conducted by the
District for such purpose only if required by the general laws of the State
applicable to school district qualified special taxes. This provision shall be
deemed to be declaratory of existing procedures governing District
expenditures.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The special tax shall be collected by the San Mateo County
Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner and shall
be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by
the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same
rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The
collection of the tax shall not decrease the funds available from other
sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the San Mateo County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s
Office.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the
District has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the special tax
as described above to the San Mateo County tax collection officials. The
San Mateo County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any
reason of any parcel from taxation, other than through the Senior Citizen
Exemption, shall be final and binding for the purposes of the special tax.
Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must
do so under the procedures provided by law. Taxpayers seeking a refund of
the special tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax
refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Governing Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of
this measure has independent value, and the Governing Board and the
voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other
provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any
part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the
fullest extent allowed by law.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Y

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school
district, upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a
qualified special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Governing Board of the Bayshore Elementary
School District proposes to levy a special tax for a period of six years
beginning July 1, 2009 and ending June 30, 2015. This tax shall be at a rate
of $96 per year per parcel, with an annual adjustment for inflation
consistent with the consumer price index for the San Francisco Bay Area,
on all taxable parcels in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District
which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
San Mateo County tax collection officials. Any property owner aged 65
years or older may qualify for an exemption from the special tax if that
property owner occupies the parcel. All property which would otherwise
be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of
the tax.

The stated purposes of the special tax are to: maintain class sizes;
attract and retain personnel; provide classroom resources to help those
students who are struggling in basic skills such as math, reading and
writing; integrate the use of technology into the curriculum and
instructional practices; provide instructional opportunities in classes such
as art, music, foreign language and science; provide for teacher training;
and continue to provide a physical education program and inter-school
sports program.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special
account. An independent citizens’ oversight committee will be established
to monitor the expenditures of the parcel tax revenues. An annual report is
required that accounts for the parcel tax revenues collected and the manner
in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied
on property within the boundaries of the Bayshore Elementary
School District for a period of six years beginning July 1, 2009 and
ending June 30, 2015 in the amount of $96 per year per taxable
parcel, with an annual adjustment for inflation consistent with the
consumer price index for the San Francisco Bay Area. The special
tax would be used to:	maintain	class	sizes;	attract	and retain

personnel; provide classroom resources to help those students who
are struggling in basic skills such as math, reading and writing;
integrate the use of technology into the curriculum and instructional
practices; provide instructional opportunities in classes such as art,
music, foreign language and science; provide for teacher training;
and continue to provide a physical education program and
inter-school sports program.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be
levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.”

NO ARGUMENT FOR OR AGAINST
MEASURE Y SUBMITTED