SAN LEANDRO POLICE SERVICES PARCEL TAX MEASURE TT	
MEASURE TT: Shall the current level of police pro- tection services be main- tained at a minimum of 94 sworn police officers by adoption of a parcel tax in an air of $48 for single-family residences, $24 per ly/mobile home unit, $12 per thousand sqt Commercial/Industrial, $10 per thousand sq Non-Profit/Places of Worship and $3 p< square feet for Unimproved Land, to end afte	YES
	NO
	nual amount multi-fami- rare feet for uare feet for jr thousand r four years?

previously extended by the voters. The ordinance specifies
that proceeds from this special tax may only be used to
fund police protection services as that term is defined in
the ordinance. As this tax is a special tax, it requires a
“yes” vote of two-thirds of the voters to pass.
s/JAYNE W. WILLIAMS
City Attorney
City of San Leandro

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE TT

San Leandro Police Services Parcel Tax

The San Leandro City Council has placed a measure on
the November 4, 2008 ballot asking voters to adopt an
ordinance that would allow the City to impose a special
tax on real property owners to provide funding for police
services and programs within the City and maintain the
current level of police protection at a minimum of 94
sworn officers.

If approved by the voters, this parcel tax would be collect-
ed from property owners annually. The amount of the tax
varies depending on a property’s use as follows:

•	Commercial/Industrial $12.00 per thousand

square feet

•	Residential-Single Family $48.00

•	Residential-Multi-Family/ $24.00 per unit
Mobile home

• Unimproved

$3.00 per thousand
square feet

•	Non-profit education/	$10.00 per thousand

Places of worship	square feet

•	Exempt	$0.00

The City Manager may adjust these tax rates annually by
the percentage increase, if any, in the Consumer Price
Index.

The ordinance provides that the City will adopt adminis-
trative guidelines to assist in implementing this tax. The
administrative guidelines will address how the taxing cat-
egory for mixed-use property will be determined, address
procedures to allow lower income senior citizen residen-
tial property owners to apply for a tax reduction, and will
address matters related to the interpretation and enforce-
ment of the ordinance.

The ordinance provides a claims procedure for requesting
a tax refund, and imposes penalties for untimely or unpaid
taxes.

This tax is a special tax. If approved by the voters, this
special tax becomes effective on January 1, 2009 and
remains in effect for 4 years. At the expiration of the 4
year period the ordinance automatically terminates, unless

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE TT

Public safety is the #1 responsibility of the City, and the
top concern of all of us who live and work here. Measure
TT asks homeowners to pay $4/month to support Police
Services. Low income seniors can pay even less. Mobile
home owners and renters are paid for by the property
owners.

In response to community concerns San Leandro has built
our police force back up to 94 officers, but that is still 10%
per capita less than the police staffing levels of our neigh-
boring cities. San Leandro faces a multimillion dollar
deficit next year. Across-the-board cuts would wipe out all
the gains we’ve made in rebuilding our Police Department
in recent years.

Measure TT would guarantee that our force would remain
at current levels or even increase, the only department in
the City with such a guarantee.

Measure TT is temporary. It’s only for four years, then it
automatically goes away.

Public safety has to be our #1 priority. Together we can
protect our Community. Please join us in supporting Mea-
sure TT. Thank you.
s/Michael J. Sobek
Vice-President, San Leandro Police Officers Assoc.
s/Carl Basuino
Board Member, Mission Bay Homeowners /Former CA
Senior Legislator
s/Benny Lee
President, Heron Bay Homeowners Assoc.
s/John Kaplan
s/Anthony B. Santos
Mayor, City of San Leandro

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE TT

In their 2008-2009 City Budget Vision Statement, the City
Council cites these overriding core values that guide the
budget process.

•	Long-term fiscal health.

•	Well-maintained and enhanced infrastructure.

•	Safe neighborhoods and safe streets.

Long-term fiscal health is the foundation from which all
City services follow.

Public safety costs are out of control. Our total costs for
each police officer or firefighter now exceeds $275,000.00
per year. Measure TT would only raise $2,300,700.00 per
year for only four years; less than the 10% of the force.
Without firm limits on our rapidly rising public safety
costs, our troubles will only get worse.

Besides, what happens to these 9 officers four years from
now? Responsible financial stewardship demands that we
insure solid future funding for all City services, not hur-
ried quick fix patches.

There are three fiscally responsible revenue Measures on
this ballot that deserve your Yes vote. Measure RR, the
Utility Tax Renewal and Measure SS, the Renewal of the
Funding for the 911 Network.

For voters in the San Lorenzo Unified School District por-
tion of the City, we urge your Yes vote on the San Lorenzo
Unified School District Bond Measure O as well.
However, Measure TT is badly flawed.

PLEASE SEND A STRONG MESSAGE TO THE
CITY COUNCIL TO HONOR THEIR STATED
CORE VALUES OF PARTNERSHIPS, COMPAS-
SION, COMMUNICATION AND FAIRNESS IN
WORKING OUT OUR FINANCIAL DIFFICULTIES.
SAY NO TO TEMPORARY QUICK FIXES.

SAY NO TO LACK OF COMMUNITY INVOLVE-
MENT.

SAY NO TO OUT OF CONTROL COSTS AND POOR
COMMUNICATION.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE TT.

Southern Alameda County Advisory Committee
California Apartment Association Political Action
Committee

By: Thomas Silva, Chairman

SLTT-2

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE TT

We recognize the City of San Leandro needs reliable,
ongoing sources of revenue to pay for essential city ser-
vices but Measure TT is the wrong way to do it. Measure
TT was hastily put together by three City Council Mem-
bers who met in secret sessions with City Staff. Then it was
quickly reviewed and approved by Council on a split vote.
Measure TT is deeply flawed.

•	It was hatched in secret closed sessions so there
was no opportunity for true community involve-
ment in the creation of Measure TT.

•	Our Public Safety Costs are rising higher and high-
er and yet no one is talking about how we must get
these costs back under control. There’s no cost con-
trols at all in Measure TT. Until we put firm limits
on the true costs of essential city services, our cur-
rent problems will only get worse.

•	It’s only for four years. What happens afterwards?
We need long term solutions, not hurried quick
fixes.

We believe that any discussions on how to resolve the City
of San Leandro’s on-going revenue issues must honor the
following principals:

•	That we need good faith effort by the City Council
to begin an ongoing dialogue with the Greater
Community as to the City’s financial needs and its
plans to get back on a solid footing.

•	That we must recognize that due diligence will take
time and cannot be rushed or hurried.

•	That until these steps are followed, the current
problems will continue.

We urge you to send a clear message to the San Leandro
City Council.

SAY NO TO POOR PLANNING.

SAY NO TO TEMPORARY QUICK FIX MEASURES.
SAY NO TO MAKING DECISIONS IN SECRET
PLANNING SESSIONS.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE TT.

Southern Alameda County Advisory Committee

California Apartment Association Political Action

Committee

By: Thomas Silva, Chairman

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE TT

Revenue from Measure TT is needed for the next 4 years
to keep Police Department staffing levels at 94 officers.
The economic slowdown has reduced City reserves to the
point where service reductions for all departments, includ-
ing Police, will be required if new revenue is not received
next year.

The City Council Revenue Ad Hoc Committee met for
several months and made recommendations in open public
session for both cost cutting and revenue enhancing mea-
sures. The City’s operating budget was reduced by $4.6
million, but we will still have to deal with a deficit of over
$4 million next fiscal year.

The City is facing unprecedented losses in revenues due to
the housing market collapse, depressed retail sales and
State raids on City resources. Measure TT ends after 4
years because it is only intended to maintain Police ser-
vices through the current rough economic times.

Measure TT asks homeowners to pay $4/month to support
police services. In their argument against the measure the
Apartment Association admits additional funding for
police services is necessary, but they just do not think that
they should have to pay $2/month for each of their apart-
ments. Police services are needed and valued by all prop-
erty owners. Measure TT asks homeowners, apartment
owners, commercial and industrial property owners to pay
only their fair share of the cost of police services.
Community safety has to be our top priority. Please join us
in supporting Measure TT. Thank you.
s/Michael J. Sobek
Vice-President, San Leandro Police Officers Association
s/Carl Basuino
Board Member, Mission Bay Homeowners /Former CA
Senior Legislator
s/Benny Lee
President, Heron Bay Homeowners Association
s/John Kaplan
s/Anthony B. Santos
Mayor, City of San Leandro

SLTT-3

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE TT

IN THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
SAN LEANDRO

ORDINANCE NO. 2008-_______

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 2 OF THE
SAN LEANDRO MUNICIPAL CODE BY ADDING
CHAPTER 19 ENTITLED POLICE SERVICES TAX

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY
OF SAN LEANDRO AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT OF CODE

Title 2 of the San Leandro Municipal Code is hereby
amended to add a new Chapter 2-19 and shall read as fol-
lows:

“CHAPTER 19”

POLICE SERVICES TAX
Sec. 2-19-100 PURPOSE, INTENT AND AUTHOR-
ITY.

(a)	It is the purpose and intent of this Ordinance to
authorize the levy of a tax on owners of real property that
are within the city limits of the City of San Leandro
(“City”) in order to provide funding for police protection
services to serve the property and persons within the City.

(b)	This Ordinance is adopted pursuant to Government
Code section 53978. The tax proposed herein shall be
effective only if approved by two-thirds of the voters, as
further specified herein.

(c)	The tax is a special tax within the meaning of Sec-
tion 4 of Article XIIIA and Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution because it will be used for specific purposes.

(d)	Because the burden of this tax falls upon property
owners who have developed their property, or whose non-
development of property necessitates municipal services,
this tax is an excise tax. This tax is not determined accord-
ing to nor in any manner based upon the value of property.
Rather, it is based on the privilege of using and the use of
police services by developed and some undeveloped prop-
erties and on the availability of police and fire services to
developed properties within the City.

(e)	The revenues raised by this tax are to be used sole-
ly for the purposes of obtaining, furnishing, operating, and
maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, for
paying the salaries and benefits of police protection per-
sonnel, and for such other police protection service
expenses as are deemed necessary for the benefit of the
residents of the City.

Sec. 2-19-105 FINDINGS.

(a)	The City Council (“Council”) recognizes that resi-
dentially and non-residentially developed parcels both use
police protection services. The Council has, therefore,
determined that the tax should be imposed on both resi-
dentially and non-residentially developed properties, and
that the tax on each type of property should be proportion-
ate to their use of the services.

(b)	The apportionment of the tax to various types of
properties is based, in part, on the intensity of police pro-
tection services requested for different kinds of land uses
and on the average number of occupants of a parcel of

each type of property. The Council finds that users of resi-
dential property typically generate more calls for service
from the police department. Therefore, it is appropriate for
the residential property owners to bear a higher percentage
of the burden on residential property.

(c)	The rates are not tailored to individual use both
because such tailoring is not administratively feasible and
because the City must make police protection services
available to all parcels and owners of parcels equally.

(d)	The Council finds that lower income senior citizen
residential property owners may be disproportionately
affected by this tax, as a higher proportion of these owners
will be on a fixed income. The Council has determined
that it is appropriate to permit lower income senior citizen
residential property owners to apply to the City for a
reduced tax rate.

(e)	The Council finds that the operators of non-profit
educational facilities and places of worship operate with-
out a margin for profit and in a manner that provides many
community benefits. The Council has determined that
owners of property used for non-profit educational uses
and places of worship shall be subject to the tax at a lower
rate than that charged to other improved parcels.

(f)	Parcels that are unimproved contain no occupants
who may avail themselves of police services, but they gen-
erally require some police and fire protection services to
protect property and may be the response site of rescue
calls to the police department. Accordingly, the Council
has determined that owners of unimproved shall be subject
to this tax at lower rate than is placed on improved parcels.

By approving this Ordinance, the People of the City of
San Leandro confirm and adopt these findings in this Sec-
tion 2-19-105.

Sec. 2-19-110 DEFINITIONS.

The following definitions shall apply throughout this
Ordinance.

(a)	“Developed” shall be defined in administrative reg-
ulations adopted pursuant to this Ordinance.

(b)	“Fiscal year” means the period of July 1 through
the following June 30.

(c)	“Occupied” shall be defined in administrative regu-
lations adopted pursuant to this Ordinance.

(d)	“Lower income senior citizen residential property
owner” shall be defined in administrative regulations
adopted pursuant to this Ordinance.

(e)	“Mixed use” shall be defined in administrative reg-
ulations adopted pursuant to this Ordinance.

(f)	“Multi-family” shall mean 2 or more residential
units.

(g)	“Parcel” means the land and any improvements
thereon, designated by an assessor’s parcel map and
parcel number and carried on the secured property tax
roll of Alameda County.

(h)	“Police Protection Services” means obtaining, fur-
nishing, operating, and maintaining police protection
equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and bene-
fits of police protection personnel, and such other
police protection service expenses as are deemed nec-