MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
VOTERS
MEDIDAS PRESENTADAS A LOS
VOTANTES

SCHOOL

ESCOLAR

SAN BERNARDINO
COMMUNITY COLLEGE
DISTRICT

DISTRITO DE UNIVERSIDAD
COMUNITARIA SAN
BERNARDINO

“College Skilled Career and Job

M Training Facility Measure. To
provide vocational and technical
training programs, enhance
nursing, firefighter, paramedic, public safety and
hi-tech job training, repair, construct, acquire
and equip classrooms, sites and facilities for
science, technology, college transfer classes,
vocational and technical training, modern
buildings/libraries, shall San Bernardino
Community College District issue $500 million
of bonds at legal rates, appoint a citizens’
oversight committee, and perform annual audits
to ensure no money is used for administrators’
salaries?”

“Medida de la Universidad de Habilidades Laborales v
Capacitacion en el Trabaio. A fin de proporcionar
programas para la capacitacion laboral y tecnica,
mejorar emplazamientos e instalaciones para
capacitacion laboral y tecnica en enfermerfa,
bomberos, paramedicos, seguridad publica y
capacitacion laboral de alta tecnologia, repara r,
construir, adquirir y equipar aulas, emplazamientos e
instalaciones para ciencias, tecnologia, clases para
traslado a universidades, capacitacion laboral y
tecnica, edificaciones/bibliotecas modernas ideberfa
el Distrito del Colegio Universitario Municipal de San
Bernardino emitir $500 millones de bonos a tasas de
interns legates, nombrar un comite de ciudadanos
para vigilancia, y llevara cabo auditorfas anuales a fin
de garantizar que ningun dinero sea utilizado para
sueldos de administradores?”

BONDS YES / BONOS SI M
BONDS NO/BONOSNO<- M

CITY

CIUDAD

CITY OF SAN BERNARDINO

CIUDAD DE SAN BERNARDINO

L Shall the ordinance adding Chapter
3.46 to the Municipal Code be
approved, reducing the existing
service user’s tax (utility user’s tax) rate from
7.83% to 7.75% and modernizing the
ordinance?

Sera aprobada la ordenanza anadiendo Capftulo
3.46 al Codigo Municipal reduciendo la existente cuota
del impuesto usuario de utilidad de 7.83% a 7.75% y
modernizando la ordenanza?

YES/SI^ M

NO/NO^ M

MEASURE L
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
OF THE “SERVICE USER’S TAX REDUCTION AND
MODERNIZATION ACT”

Since 1968, the City of San Bernardino has imposed a Telephone and Video
User’s Tax, which is paid by telephone and video customers on the telephone and
CATV bills. The City’s tax ordinance, like many similar tax ordinances throughout the
state, was written before the introduction of new communications technologies, such
as cellular phone and broadband service over private networks, including voice-over
internet. The tax ordinance was also written before several changes occurred to
federal law, namely the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000 and the
recent change in the IRS interpretation of the federal excise tax on long distance
service. Taxes imposed by other California cities that contain language similar to that
in the City’s existing ordinance have been the subject of legal controversy, as some
telecommunications providers have disagreed with the cities’s application of the tax.

If adopted, the Service User’s Tax Reduction and Modernization Act
(“Ordinance”) will supplant the existing Telephone and Video Services User’s Taxes,
and would reduce the tax on these services from 7.83% to 7.75%. In addition, it would
reduce the Electricity and Gas User’s taxes from 7.83% to 7.75%.

The tax will be imposed on charges for the use of “communication services”,
which includes “telecommunication services” (defined to include “the transmission,
conveyance, or routing of voice data, audio, video, or any other information or signals
to a point, or among points whatever the technology used”), “ancillary
telecommunication services” (defined to include “services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to
electronic program guide services, search function, or other interactive services that
are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of video
programming”), “video services” (defined to include “any and all services related to
the providing, storing or delivering of video programming”), and “ancillary video
services” (defined to include “services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision, use or enjoyment of video programming”).

The City Manager has calculated the estimated savings to the taxpayers if
the Ordinance is approved will be approximately $258,000 annually. The approval of
the Ordinance will result in the elimination of general fund revenue that may impact
municipal services, which include police, fire, parks and recreation, and maintenance
and repair of the City’s infrastructure. The Ordinance provides that the City may not
increase the tax approved by the voters unless such increase is approved by a
majority vote of the citizens. The approval of the Ordinance shall continue the current
tax breaks for low income residents of mobile home parks and for low income
household service users.

A “Yes” vote would be a vote to approve the Ordinance reducing the current
tax rate on telephone/video, electricity and gas services from 7.83% to 7.75%.

A “No” vote would be a vote not to approve the Ordinance, and thus the
current tax rate of 7.83% on telephone/video, electricity and gas services would not
be reduced.

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of the proposed “Service
User’s Tax Reduction and Modernization Act” of the City of San Bernardino. If
you desire a copy of the Ordinance, please call the Office of the City Clerk at
(909) 384-5002 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.3

PR-8012-1

N SB 021-005

MEASURE L

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Vote YES on Measure L to reduce our taxes and to maintain essential city services.

The City has promised for years to continue lowering our Utility User’s Tax - this is
the next step in that right direction!

Measure L reduces our existing Utility User’s Tax (UUT) on electricity, natural gas,
telephone and cable television services, which will save our residents and businesses
money every month. The tax rate will be lowered from the current 7.83% to the new,
reduced rate of 7.75%.

By voting YES on Measure L, you will pay less taxes! No gimmicks, no hidden
agendas - just an honest tax reduction.

Measure L will also make other important changes to ensure our Utility User’s Tax
remains legally compliant:

•	Modernize the utility tax to comply with recent changes in federal law
regarding telecommunications services;

•	Preserve existing utility tax exemptions for low income seniors and
residents, and residents of mobile home parks;

•	Prohibit the utility tax from being increased without voter approval; and

•	Ensure all taxpayers are treated equally.

Our Utility User’s Tax helps pay for basic city services we all rely on such as police,
fire, code enforcement, and street maintenance. Maintaining these essential city
services while reducing the tax burden on our residents and local businesses is a
critical step towards revitalizing our community. That’s why the San Bernardino City
Council voted unanimously to place Measure L on the ballot.

Vote YES on Measure L..for Lower Taxes!

s/ Ms. Willie M. Brue, San Bernardino Senior Affairs Commissioner
s/ Michael J. Gallo, Chairman of the Board, San Bernardino Area Chamber of Commerce
s/ David Kennedy, City Treasurer
s/ Patrick J. Morris, Mayor

s/ Marie A. Alonzo, Board Chair, Arrowhead Credit Union

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L WAS FILED

PR-8012-2

N SB 021-006

MEASURE M
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

A yes vote by fifty-five percent (55%) of the voters within the San Bernardino Community College
District voting on this measure will authorize the Board of Trustees of the District to issue and sell
bonds in the principal amount not to exceed $500 million at an interest rate below legal limits.
The District may only use the bond funds for the specific school facilities projects listed in the
District Projects list, which has been approved by action of the Board of Trustees and is Exhibit B
to its Resolution ordering this election.

If this measure passes, the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors will be required to
annually levy a tax upon the property in the District sufficient to pay the principal and interest on
any outstanding bonds of the District as the principal and interest becomes due. This tax will be
in addition to the one percent (1%) property tax provided for under current law.

If less than fifty-five percent (55%) of the voters voting on this measure vote yes, the Board of
Trustees of the District will not be authorized to issue and sell the $500 million of bonds set forth
in the measure.

This measure will not have any effect on existing law.

RUTH E. STRINGER
County Counsel

DANIEL B. HAUETER
Principal Assistant County Counsel

PR-8013-1

N SB 021-007

MEASURE M
TAX RATE STATEMENT
SAN BERNARDINO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
BOND MEASURE

An election will be held in the San Bernardino Community College District (the “District”) on
February 5, 2008, for the purpose of submitting to the electors of the District the question of
issuing bonds of the District in a principal amount not to exceed $500 million. If such bonds are
authorized and sold, the principal thereof and interest thereon will be payable from the proceeds
of tax levies made upon the taxable property in the District. The following information regarding
tax rates is given to comply with Section 9401 of the California Elections Code. Such information
is based upon the best estimates and projections presently available from official sources, upon
experience with the District, and other demonstrable factors.

Based upon the foregoing and projections of the District’s assessed valuation, and assuming the
entire debt service will be paid through property taxation:

1.	The best estimate of the tax rate	that would be	required to	be levied	to fund the bond

issue during the first fiscal year	after the sale	of the first	series of	bonds based on

estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this statement is 1.98
cents per $100 of assessed valuation (or $19.80 per $100,000 of assessed valuation)
for fiscal year 2008-09.

2.	The best estimate of the tax rate	that would be	required to	be levied	to fund the bond

issue during the first fiscal year	after the sale	of the last	series of	bonds based on

estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this statement is 1.98
cents per $100 of assessed valuation (or $19.80 per $100,000 of assessed valuation)
for fiscal year 2017-18.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund the
bond issue, and an estimate of the years in which that rate will apply, based on
estimated assessed valuations available at the time of the filing of this statement is
again 1.98 cents per $100 of assessed valuation (or $19.80 per $100,000 of assessed
valuation), which is projected to be the same in every fiscal year that the bonds remain
outstanding.

Attention to all voters is directed to the fact that the foregoing information is based upon
projections and estimates only, which are not binding upon the District. The actual timing of bond
sales and the amount of bonds sold at any given time will be governed by the needs of the
District, the state of the bond market, and other factors. The actual interest rates on any bonds
sold will depend upon market conditions and other factors at the time of sale. The actual
assessed valuations in future years will depend upon the value of property within the District as
determined in the assessment and equalization process. Therefore, the actual tax rates and the
years in which such rates are applicable may vary from those presently estimated as stated
above.

s/Donald F. Averill, Ed.D
Chancellor

San Bernardino Community College District

N SB 021-008

MEASURE M
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Measure M will allow San Bernardino Valley College and Crafton Hills College in Yucaipa to give
students the job and technical training they need to start their careers.

Measure M will enhance training in nursing, firefighting, paramedic, public safety and high-tech
job training.

Measure M will allow San Bernardino Valley and Crafton Hills Colleges to strengthen its job
training by:

•	Providing facilities to increase the number of trained medical assistants, respiratory
therapists, emergency medical technicians and paramedics

•	Building a new science and technology center

•	Wire classrooms for and increase the use of computers

•	Building a new technical building for aeronautics, diesel mechanics and automotive
professions

•	Renovating and repairing 40 year-old classrooms and learning centers to bring them
up-to-date

•	Upgrading laboratories for science, health and technology program

•	Providing a wider range of job and career training programs

Measure M will equip classrooms and facilities for science, technology, college transfer classes,
vocational and technical training.

Each semester, nearly 20,000 students use Valley and Crafton Hills Colleges for their job and
career training, to serve as a springboard to continue their educations at a four year university or
to begin their career.

Measure M will ensure that local students are prepared for the jobs of today and tomorrow.
Support job and career training and skills in the Inland Empire.

Vote Yes on Measure M.

s/Patrick J. Morris, Mayor, City of San Bernardino
s/Gary Penrod, Sheriff, County of San Bernardino
s/Stephanie J. Cereceres, Middle School Principal
s/Deborah L. Crowley, CPA

s/Wesley C. McDaniel, Retired Regional Transportation Director

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M WAS FILED

PR-8013-3

N SB 021-009

MEASURE M
EXHIBIT B
FULL TEXT BALLOT
OF THE SAN BERNARDINO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
BOND MEASURE ELECTION FEBRUARY 5, 2008

“College Skilled Career and Job Training Facility Measure. To provide vocational and technical
training programs, enhance nursing, firefighter, paramedic, public safety and hi-tech job training,
repair, construct, acquire and equip classrooms, sites and facilities for science, technology,
college transfer classes, vocational and technical training, modern buildings/libraries, shall San
Bernardino Community College District issue $500 million of bonds at legal rates, appoint a
citizens’ oversight committee, and perform annual audits to ensure no money is used for
administrators’ salaries?”

Bonds-Yes	Bonds	-	No

PROJECTS

The Board of Trustees of the San Bernardino Community College District, to be responsive to the
needs of students and the community, evaluated the District’s urgent and critical facility needs,
including providing sufficient classrooms and labs to offer more courses and programs to
students, safety issues, class size and offerings, energy cost reduction and information and
computer technology, in developing the scope of projects to be funded, as outlined in the San
Bernardino Community College District Master Plan, incorporated herein in its entirety. In
developing the scope of projects, the faculty, staff and students have prioritized the key job
training requirements for local students so that the most critical needs and the most urgent and
basic service needs of the community are addressed. The Board conducted facilities evaluations
and received public input and review in developing the scope of college facility projects to be
funded, as listed in the Master Plan. This input of faculty and community leaders concluded that
if these needs were not addressed now, neither San Bernardino Valley College nor Crafton Hills
College would able to remain competitive in preparing adult learners for current and emerging
growth industries and university transfer. In implementing the Master Plan, the Board of
Trustees determines that San Bernardino Community College District must:

•	Expand classrooms and labs that provide immediate job training for critical
professions such as nurses, emergency medical assistants, other health training
programs and public safety programs, such as firefighting and police training.

•	Renovate existing classrooms, science labs and vocational training facilities to
allow adult learners to receive job training and to enable more local students to
transfer to four year universities.

•	Provide a wider range of job training programs which will allow students to get
ahead in real world jobs.

The Master Plan is on file and available for review at the District Chancellor’s Office and includes
the type of projects listed below.

CRAFTON HILLS COLLEGE
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL CAREER TRAINING PROJECTS

• Provide facilities for vocational training and other professions that will allow
Crafton Hills College to increase the number of trained medical assistants,
physician assistants, respiratory therapists, emergency medical technicians and

N SB 021-010

paramedics, and help relieve the serious shortage of healthcare professionals in
the Inland Empire.

•	Provide public safety and fire training classrooms to train fire fighters, police
officers and other public safety personnel in administration of justice, fire
fighting technology, and police officer standards.

•	Build new classrooms for job training and retraining, workforce preparation and skills
upgrading.

•	Renovate facilities, labs and classrooms for chemistry and health sciences.

CLASSROOM BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES

•	Build a new science and technology center.

•	Build and acquire college classrooms, facilities and sites to accommodate more
students who want to enroll in classes and improve the quality of learning and expand
academic and workforce learning opportunities. Renovate and upgrade classrooms,
buildings and facilities available to students working toward a four year college degree.
Renovate or construct athletic and aquatic facilities, fields and classrooms for safety,
efficiency, and expanded enrollment. Upgrade laboratories for science, health and
technology programs. Upgrade early childhood education classrooms and facilities
to train teachers, student center, business education, health services, life science and
physical science facilities.

•	Wire classrooms and buildings to increase the uses of technology, computers and high
speed Internet access for teaching including enhancement of distance learning.

•	Build or expand academic classroom facilities and increase classes in math, English,
fine and performing arts and languages.

•	Expand facilities for job training and college transfer counseling including academic
studies, humanities, student activities, computer and technology studies; build a new
student/academic services center, labs for performing arts, administrative facility,
warehouse, maintenance facility, parking lot or structure and academic classrooms.

HEALTH AND SAFETY PROJECTS

•	Reduce earthquake risks by completing seismic retrofitting of older buildings, as
necessary.

•	Improve facilities and sites to meet legal requirements for disabled persons access.

SITE SAFETY AND SECURITY PROJECTS

•	Improve pedestrian access routes across campus for safety via entry quad.

•	Improve campus safety and security by adding exterior lighting.

•	Implement safety upgrades to relieve traffic flow and parking congestion, build parking
facilities and upgrade parking lots.

•	Site grading for athletic fields.

N SB 021-011

•	Repair or replace outdated natural gas, water, sewer, storm drain systems, as
necessary.

•	Campus-wide landscaping.

ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS

•	Replace/upgrade central plant for energy efficient and cost effective heating, electrical,
ventilation and air conditioning systems and related utility systems.

SAN BERNARDINO VALLEY COLLEGE

VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL CAREER TRAINING PROJECTS

•	Build a new technical building for automotive, aeronautics, diesel mechanics and
other similar professions that will allow San Bernardino Valley College students
to compete for high skilled jobs which serve the community.

•	Renovate business buildings which provide classrooms for college transfer courses,
workforce preparation and skills upgrading.

CLASSROOM BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES

•	Build and acquire college classrooms, facilities and sites to accommodate more
students who want to enroll in classes and improve the quality of learning and expand
academic and workforce learning opportunities. Build, renovate and upgrade
classrooms, buildings and facilities available to students working toward four year
college degrees, as well as fields, gyms, stadium and aquatic facilities, and auditorium.
Upgrade laboratories for science, health and technology programs. Upgrade early
childhood education classrooms and facilities to train teachers, student center,
business education, health services, life science and physical science facilities.

•	Wire classrooms and buildings to increase the uses of technology, computers and high
speed Internet access for teaching including enhancement of distance learning.

•	Build or expand academic classroom facilities and increase classes in math and
English.

HEALTH AND SAFETY PROJECTS

•	Reduce earthquake risks by completing seismic retrofitting of older buildings, as
necessary.

•	Improve facilities and sites to meet legal requirements for disabled persons access.

SITE SAFETY AND SECURITY PROJECTS

•	Implement safety upgrades to relieve traffic flow, bus drop off areas, and parking
congestion, build parking facilities and upgrade parking lots.

•	Site work for classroom construction.

•	Repair or replace outdated natural gas, water, sewer, storm drain systems.

N SB 021-012