STATE MEASURES

, _	VETERANS' BOND ACT OF 2008. This act provides for a bond

1 Q	issue of nine hundred million dollars ($900,000,000) to provide farm

■ ™ and home aid for California veterans. Fiscal Impact: Costs of about
$1.8 billion to pay off both the principal ($900 million) and interest ($856 million) on
the bonds; costs paid by participating veterans. Average payment for principal and'
million per year for 30 years.

132

YES-*0

133	N0-*O

interest of about $59

COUNTY MEASURES

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

NO'

R TRAFFIC RELIEF. RAIL EXTENSIONS. REDUCE FOREIGN OIL 137 YES'

DEPENDENCE. To: Synchronize traffic signals; Repair potholes; Extend
light rail with airport connections; Improve freeway traffic flow (5,10,14,60,

101, 110, 138, 210, 405, 605, 710); Keep senior/student/disabled fares low;

Provide clean-fuel buses; Expand subway/Metrolink/bus service; Dedicate millions for community traffic
relief; Shall Los Angeles County's sales tax increase one-half cent for 30 years with independent audits,
public review of expenditures, all locally controlled?

138

►O

►O

SCHOOL

CENTINELA VALLEY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

143

144

Au CENTINELA HIGH SCHOOLS IMPROVEMENT MEASURE. To

f^l/ improve the quality of education/student safety/reduce overcrowding,

* ■ shall Centinela Valley Union High School District issue $98,000,000 in
bonds, at legal rates, to repair/acquire/construct local schools, sites, facilities,
libraries, classrooms, science/computer labs, ensure earthquake safety, remove mold/asbestos,
upgrade fire safety/security systems, leaky roofs, restrooms, plumbing/electrical/heatlng/cooling
systems, with citizens’ oversight, Independent annual audits, no money for administrators' salaries and no
increase in current tax rates?

YES^O

NO-*}

CITY

HAWTHORNE CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

149

YES^O

V Shall Ordinance No. 1925 be adopted to maintain the rate of the City of
Hawthorne's Communication Users' Tax (formerly the Telephone Users
Tax and Cable Television Users Tax) at 5%; to revise the method for
calculating and collecting the Communication Users' Tax to reflect technological lOU	NU^U

advances and changes in federal law; to continue the tax exemption for senior-citizen and disabled
households; and to ratify and approve the past collection of the Tax?

DISTRICT

WEST BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT

Member, Board
of Directors,
Division 5
Vote for One

PHILIP A. JOHNSON

Park Director______________________

DONALD L. (DON) DEAR

Director, West Basin Municipal Water District

154-	k

155-	>0

END OF BALLOT

06-078E

N LA 366-008

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE V

The City of Hawthorne currently levies a 5% Utility Users Tax on electric, gas,
telephone, cable television and water services provided in the City. The tax is
collected by utilities from their customers, and used by the City for general
municipal purposes, such as providing police services and parks & recreation
programs.

As the existing tax ordinance was written in 1984, the language in the telephone
and cable television portions of the ordinance is outdated and do not reflect
significant advances in technology since 1984. Therefore, the tax is not imposed
on many communication services and devices that have since come into
existence, such as voice-over-internet protocol. Furthermore, recent federal
court decisions in other states have cast doubt on whether the ordinance, as
currently written, can be imposed on long distance, cellular and bundled
telephone services. Several California cities with almost identical ordinances to
Hawthorne’s are currently embroiled in litigation on this issue. Should the City
be sued, or an adverse decision be reached that is controlling in California, the
revenues collected from the current ordinance could be reduced substantially.
The City’s revenues from the telephone portion of the tax were approximately
$2.3 million in 2006-2007. This accounted for 5% percent of the City’s overall
general fund revenue.

Measure V would update the existing telephone and cable television taxes to a
modern communications users’ tax applicable to all types of communication and
video services, regardless of the technology used. The rate of the tax would
remain 5%. It would also retain the existing exemptions for seniors and the
disabled and ratify past application of the tax. The tax cannot be increased in the
future without a vote of the people. The measure has no effect on the existing
utility user tax applied to electrical, gas and water services.

A “yes” vote is in favor of adopting the updated communications tax ordinance
summarized above. A “no” vote is against adopting the ordinance. A majority of
“yes” votes is required for the ordinance to be enacted.

GLEN E. SHISHIDO

City Attorney

PR-900459-1

N LA 366-035

.....

Preserve your community by voting YES on Measure V.

Measure V is NOT A NEW TAX.

Yes on Measure V simply continues Hawthorne’s existing Utility Users’ Tax on
telephone and cable television services (Communication Users’ Tax) -with no
increase in the tax rate.

All Utility User Tax revenues must stay in Hawthorne and help to pay for these
vital city services:

Police

Fire

Street improvements
Parks & recreation programs
Code Enforcement

Graffiti removal
Animal control

Measure V locks in the existing tax you already pay - with no increase in the tax
rate - while also retaining the current exemptions for low-income seniors and
disabled households.

Changes in Federal Law require California cities to update and replace existing
ordinances by modernizing the language to cover advances in communication
technologies; or risk losing substantial revenues.

Through careful budgeting and fiscal responsibility, Hawthorne aims to maintain
and enhance our tradition of quality services - Police, Fire, Street and
Neighborhood Improvements, and Parks programs.

However without Measure V, Hawthorne will be faced with cutting services by
over $2 million annually. Every resident and neighborhood would be affected.

Measure V also ensures fiscal responsibility - independent financial audits will
ensure that funds are collected and spent as promised. It protects taxpayers from
fraud and wasteful government spending.

Taxpayers are also protected as Measure V forbids raising the tax rate without a
public vote. Measure V reaffirms a tax the residents are already paying - with no
increase in the tax rate.

The Hawthorne City Council unanimously voted to place Measure V on the
ballot because it is important to our community.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 366-036

ARGUMENT !N FAVOR OF MEASURE V (Continued)

Your YES vote on Measure V will protect Hawthorne’s quality of life without
new taxes.

JOSE CARLOS GUTIERREZ

President, Holly Park Homeowners Association

GLENDA MEYER

President, Airport Neighborhood Association

ALEXANDRE MONTEIRO

President, Moneta Gardens Improvements, Inc.

ALLEN RICHARDS

President, Ramona Neighborhood Association
ALEX VARGAS

President, North Hawthorne Community Association

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-90Q459-3

N LA 366-037

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V —

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HAWTHORNE,
CALIFORNIA ADDING CHAPTER 3.45 TO THE HAWTHORNE MUNICIPAL
CODE WITH RESPECT TO A COMMUNICATION USERS’ TAX.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HAWTHORNE, CALIFORNIA DO ORDAIN
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.45 of the Hawthorne Municipal Code is hereby added,
and it shall read as follows:

CHAPTER 3.45
COMMUNICATION USERS’ TAX

3.45.010	Short Title.

3.45.020	Definitions.

3.45.030	Constitutional. Statutory, and Other Exemptions.

3.45.040	Communication Users’ Tax.

3.45.050	Bundling Taxable Items with Non-taxable Items

3.45.060	Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

3.45.070	Senior/Disabled Exemption

3.45.080	Duty to collect-Procedures.

3.45.090	Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers.

3.45.100	Actions to Collect.

3.45.110 Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

3.45.120	Administrative Remedy - Non-Paving Service Users.

3.45.130	Additional powers and duties of the Tax Administrator.

3.45.140	Records.

3.45.150 Refunds.

3.45.160 Appeals.

3.45.170 Notice No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

3.45.180 Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

3.45.190 Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization.

3.45.200 Independent Audit of Tax Collection. Exemption. Remittance, and
Expenditure.

3.45.210 Interaction with Prior Tax

3.45.010	Short Title

This chapter shall be known as the “Communication Users’ Tax Law” of the City
of Hawthorne.

3.45.020	Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter shall be
construed as defined in this section.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-4

N LA 366-038

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V (Continued)

(a)	. “Ancillary telecommunication services” means services that are associated
with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications
services, including but not limited to the following services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that links two or
more participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the
provision of a telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include
the telecommunications services used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunications billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s
billing statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone
number information, and/or address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection
with one or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling
features that allow customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and
call connections, including conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer to
store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include
any vertical services that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize
the voice mail service

(b)	“Ancillary video services” means services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited
to electronic program guide services, recording services, search functions, or
other interactive services or communications that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of video services.

(c)	. “Billing Address” shall mean the mailing address of the service user where
the service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

(d)	. “City” shall mean the City of Hawthorne.

(e)	. “Communication Services” means:	“telecommunications	services”,

“ancillary telecommunication services”, “video services” and “ancillary video
services”.

(f)	. “Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the meaning and usage as set
forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124)
and the regulations thereunder.

(g)	. “Month” shall mean a calendar month.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-5

N LA 366-039

PPQP0g|S0.:Q|^.0|N;ANGIE"©F':':':M;EASyRE'V;':'fG0fTttntieCl}......

(h)	. “Paging Service” means a “telecommunications service” that provides
transmission of coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers;
such transmissions may include messages and/or sounds.

(i)	. “Person” shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust,
common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club,
joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation
(including foreign, domestic, and non-profit), municipal district or municipal
corporation (other than the City) cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or
other representative appointed by order of any court.

(j)	. “Place of Primary Use” means the street address representative of where
the customer’s use of the communications service primarily occurs, which must
be the residential street address or the primary business street address of the
customer.

(k)	. “Post-paid telecommunication service” means the telecommunication
service obtained by making a payment on a communication-by-communication
basis either through the use of a credit card or payment mechanism such as a
bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service
number which is not associated with the origination or termination of the
telecommunication service.

(l) . “Prepaid telecommunication service” means the right to access
telecommunication services, which must be paid for in advance and which
enables the origination of communications using an access number or
authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed, and that is sold in
predetermined units or dollars of which the number declines with use in a known
amount.

(m)	. “Private telecommunication service” means a telecommunication service
that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications
channel or group of channels between or among termination points, regardless
of the manner in which such channel or channels are connected, and includes
switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other associated services
that are provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A
communications channel is a physical or virtual path of communications over
which signals are transmitted between or among customer channel termination
points (i.e., the location where the customer either inputs or receives the
communications).

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-6

N LA 366-040

•^^PR^POSED OBDINANCEOF MEASUREV (Continued)

(n)	. “Service Address” means either:

(1)	The location of the service user’s communication equipment from which the
communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the communication
is billed or paid; or,

(2)	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (e,g„ mobile
telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address means the
location of the service user’s place of primary use.

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” means the
location associated with the service number.

(o)	. “Service Supplier” shall mean any entity or person, including the City, that
provides communication service to a user of such service within the City.

(p)	. “Service User” shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under the
provisions of this Chapter.

(q)	. “State” shall mean the State of California.

(r)	. “Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement” means the multi-state
agreement commonly known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use
Tax Agreement, as it is amended from time to time.

(s)	. “Tax Administrator” shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.44.010(D) of Chapter 3.44 of this Municipal Code.

(t)	. “Telecommunications Service” means the transmission, conveyance, or

routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a
point, or between or among points, whatever the technology used. The term
“telecommunications services” includes such transmission, conveyance, or
routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or
routing without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over
internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal
Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video
and/or data services that is functionally integrated with “telecommunication
services”. “Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to the
following services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are
calculated or billed:	ancillary	telecommunication	services;	mobile

telecommunications service; prepaid telecommunication service; post-paid
telecommunication service; private telecommunication service; paging service;
800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission); 900 service (or any other similar numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission for services whereby
subscribers who call in to pre-recorded or live service).

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-7

N LA 366-041

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V (Continued)

(u)	“Video Programming” means those programming services commonly
provided to subscribers by a “video service supplier” including but not limited to
basic services, premium services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view
services, video on demand, origination programming, or any other similar
services, regardless of the content of such video programming, or the technology
used to deliver such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which
such services are calculated or billed.

(v)	“Video Services” means “video programming” and any and all services
related to the providing, recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of “video
programming” (including origination programming and programming using
Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video) using one or more channels by a
“video service supplier”, regardless of the technology used to deliver, store or
provide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such
services are calculated or billed, and includes ancillary video services, data
services, “telecommunication services”, or interactive communication services
that are functionally integrated with “video services”.

(w)	“Video Service Supplier” means any person, company, or service which
provides or sells one or more channels of video programming, or provides or sells
the capability to receive one or more channels of video programming, including
any communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the provision,
use or enjoyment of the video programming, to or from a business or residential
address in the City, where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues
or rental charges for that service, whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized
in the delivery of the video programming or communications. A “video service
supplier” includes, but is not limited to, multichannel video programming
distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 522(13)]; open video systems
(OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television; master antenna television;
satellite master antenna television; multichannel multipoint distribution services
(MMDS); video services using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video,
which provide, among other things, broadcasting and video on demand), direct
broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its video services,
now or in the future; and other suppliers of video services (including two-way
communications), whatever their technology.

(x)	“VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol)” means the digital process of
making and receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol
network.

(y)	“800 Service” means a “telecommunications service” that allows a caller to
dial a toll-free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is
typically marketed under the name “800”, “855”, “866”, “877”, and “888”
toll-free calling, and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-8

N LA 366-042

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V (Continued)

(z)	“900 Service” means an inbound toll “telecommunications service”
purchased by a subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the
subscriber’s prerecorded announcement or live service. “900 service” does not
include the charge for: collection services provided by the seller of the
“telecommunications services” to the subscriber, or service or product sold by
the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is typically marketed
under the name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers designated by the
Federal Communications Commission.

3.45.030	Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions.

(a)	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person or service when the imposition of such tax upon such person or service
would be in violation of a federal or state statute, the Constitution of the United
States or the Constitution of the State.

(b)	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Chapter
pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall file an application with the Tax
Administrator for an exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall not
apply to a service user that is a state or federal agency or subdivision with a
commonly recognized name for such service. Said application shall be made
upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator and shall state those facts,
declared under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption,
and shall include the names of all communication service suppliers serving that
service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service user shall
give the Tax Administrator timely written notice of any change in communication
service suppliers so that the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new
communication service supplier of the service user’s tax exempt status. A service
user that fails to comply with this section shall not be entitled to a refund of a
communication users’ tax collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator from
such service user as a result of such noncompliance.

The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section
3.45.160 of this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and
appeal to the City Manager pursuant to Section 3.45.160 of this Chapter is a
prerequisite to a suit thereon.

(c)	. The City Council may, by resolution, establish one or more classes of
persons or one or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to payment of a
tax imposed by this chapter and provide that such classes of persons or service
shall be exempt, in whole or in part from such tax for a specified period of time.

PR-900459-9

N LA 366-043

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V (Continued)

3.45.040	Communication Users’ Tax

(a)	. There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
communication services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of
five percent (5%) of the charges made for such services and shall be collected
from the service user by the communication services supplier or its billing agent.
There is a rebuttable presumption that communication services, which are billed
to a billing or service address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the
City’s boundaries, and such services are subject to taxation under this Chapter. If
the billing address of the service user is different from the service address, the
service address of the service user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax.
As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for the communication services.

(b)	. “Mobile Telecommunications Service” shall be sourced in accordance with
the sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4
U.S.C. Section 124). The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to
communication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this Chapter, sourcing rules for the taxation of other
communication services, including but not limited to post-paid communication
services, prepaid communication services, and private communication services,
provided that such rules are based upon custom and common practice that
further administrative efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation (e.g.,
Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement).

(c)	. The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication
service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this
Chapter, an administrative ruling identifying those communication services, or
charges therefor, that are subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection (a)
above.

(d)	. As used in this section, the term “telecommunication services” shall include,
but is not limited to, charges for: connection, reconnection, termination,
movement, or change of telecommunication services; late payment fees; detailed
billing; central office and custom calling features (including but not limited to
call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling); voice
mail and other messaging services; directory assistance; access and line charges;
universal service charges; regulatory, administrative and other cost recovery
charges; local number portability charges; and text and instant messaging.
“Telecommunication services” shall not include digital downloads that are not
“ancillary telecommunication services”, such as music, ringtones, games, and
similar digital products.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-10

N LA 366-044

(e)	Charges for communication services (video) shall include, but are not
limited to, charges for the following:

1.	regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees and access fees (PEG);

2.	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of video
services;

3.	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

4.	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnections fees;

5.	video programming and video services;

6.	ancillary video services (e.g., electronic program guide services, recording
functions, search functions, or other interactive services or communications that
are ancillary, necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of video services);

7.	equipment leases (e.g., remote, recording or search devices, converters,
remote devices); and,

8.	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services, and
special services.

(f)	. To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of communication services
subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax
Administrator that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another
state or city on such communication services, shall be allowed a credit against the
tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other
state or city; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax
owed to the City under this section.

(g)	. The tax on communication services imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the service supplier. In the case of video
service, the service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video
service (e.g., an apartment owner), unless such service is resold to individual
users, in which case the service user shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video
service. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the
Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before
the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

(h)	. Proceeds of the tax imposed by this section shall be deposited in the general
fund of the City and be available for any legal purpose.

PR-900459-11

N LA 366-045

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V (Continued)

3.45.050	Bundling Taxable Items with Non-Taxable Items.

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from
taxable service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the
combined charge is subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies, by
reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of the combined charge that are
nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier’s books and records kept in
the regular course of business, and in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The
service supplier has the burden of proving the proper apportionment of taxable
and non-taxable charges. If the service supplier offers a combination of taxable
and non-taxable services, and the charges are separately stated, then for taxation
purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall be based
on its books and records kept in the regular course of business and in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained
for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
valuation of the taxable and non-taxable services.

3.45.060	Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax
under this Chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the
communication users’ tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law,
and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by statutory
enactment. Any communication service (including VoIP) used by a person with a
service address in the City, which service is capable of terminating a call to
another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to a
rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exists for
purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax,
under this Chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity
in the City for tax collection and remittance purposes if its activities include, but
are not limited to, any of the following: maintains or has within the City, directly
or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of business of any nature; solicits
business in the City by employees, independent contractors, resellers, agents or
other representatives; solicits business in the City on a continuous, regular,
seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed
from a transmitter with the City or distributed from a location with the City; or
advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the
City or through materials distributed in the City by means other than the United
States mail; or if there are activities performed in the City on behalf of the
service supplier that are significantly associated with the service supplier’s ability
to establish and maintain a market in the City for the provision of
communication services that are subject to a tax under this Chapter.

(Continued on next page)

PR-90045902

N LA 366-046

OF MEASOTE^Corrttrtued)

3.45.070	Senior/Disabled Exemption.

Any service user who is sixty-two years of age or older and is head of household
shall be eligible for an exemption from the taxes imposed by this chapter on
service supplied the service user’s residential living quarters. The provisions of
this exemption shall also apply to any individual who meets the criterion of
disability, as established by the Social Security Administration’s supplemental
security income program for the aged, blind, and disabled (Title XLII of the
Social Security Act as amended), without regard to the age of such disabled
individual. Exemptions pursuant to this Section shall be administered pursuant
to Sections 3.44.210 through 3.44.300 of Chapter 3.44 of this Municipal Code.

3.45.080	Duty to Collect-Procedures.

(a)	Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect and
remit the taxes imposed by the provisions of this Chapter shall be performed as
follows:

(1)	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at the
same time as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance
with the regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid
by a service user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge
and tax which was accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of both
the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid. In those cases where a
service user has notified the service supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed on
said charges, Section 3.45.120 shall apply.

(2)	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the
service user where all charges normally included in such regular billing are
subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where a service user receives more
than one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the duty
to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

(b)	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this Chapter to remit
a tax shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax
Administrator, on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected
shall be included with the return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator is authorized to require such additional information as he or she
deems necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in
accordance with this Chapter. Returns are due immediately upon cessation of
business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code Section 7284.6, the
Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as
confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the
Public Records Act.

PR-900459-13

N LA 366-047

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSEB ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V (Continued)

3.45.090	Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers.

(a)	Taxes collected from a service user are delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a
weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator
on the first regular working day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct
deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other similar methods of
electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by a service
supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection shall be considered
timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer
settles into the City’s account on the following business day.

(b)	If the person required to collect and/or remit the communication users’ tax
fails to collect the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more
services or charges on the customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on
or before the due date, the Tax Administrator shall attach a penalty for such
delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax
that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate
of and 75/IOOths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance
first became delinquent, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties
upon persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter for fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of
fifteen (15%) percent of the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be
remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax Administrator.

(d)	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is
accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein
required to be paid.

(e)	. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, modify the due dates of this Chapter to be consistent with any
uniform standards or procedures that are mutually agreed upon by other public
agencies imposing a utility users tax, or otherwise legally established, to create a
central payment location or mechanism.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-14

N LA 366-048

3.45.100	Actions to Collect.

OF MEASURE V (Continued)

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this Chapter
shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax
collected from a service user which has not been remitted to the Tax
Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to
collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service user. Any person
owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an
action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount, including
penalties and interest as provided for in this Chapter, along with any collection
costs incurred by the City as a result of the person’s noncompliance with this
Chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees. Any tax
required to be collected by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an
unsecured priority excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8)(C).

3.45.110	Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she
determines that any person required to pay or collect taxes pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter has failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the proper
amount of tax by improperly or failing to apply the tax to one or more taxable
services or charges. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator
institute proceedings under this Section 3.45.110 if, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax
benefit.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination
to the person required to pay or remit the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to
the amount of the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%)
percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from the
date on which the tax should have been received by the City. Within fourteen
(14) calendar days after the date of service of such notice, the person may
request in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the matter.

(c)	If the person fails to request a hearing within the prescribed time period,
the amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final assessment, and
shall immediately be due and owing to the City. If the person requests a hearing,
the Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be
scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt of the written request for hearing.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax
Administrator to such person at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing,
and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person to produce specific records at
such hearing, such notice may designate the records requested to be produced.

PR-900459-15

N LA 366-049

(Continued on next page)

PRGPGSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE ¥ (Continued).................:......

(d)	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all
relevant testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested parties.
At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be continued from
time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of additional evidence.
Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the hearing, the Tax
Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessment), thereafter, by
confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and
shall mail a copy of such final assessment to person owing the tax. The decision
of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 3.45.160 of this
Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City
Manager pursuant to Section 3.45.160 of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a suit
thereon.

(e)	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by
the Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of
receipt of the notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be
fifteen percent (15%) on the total amount of the assessment, along with interest
at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on
the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date of delinquency, until
paid. The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the City seeking
payment of a tax assessed under this Chapter shall commence from the date of
delinquency as provided in this subsection (e).

(f)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid,
and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of

mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

3.45.120	Administrative Remedy - Non-Paying Service Users.

(a)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the
amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax
Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she may relieve such
person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this Chapter from certain
named service users for specific billing periods. To the extent the service user has
failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing
periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes
due. The service supplier shall provide the City with the names and addresses of
such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of this
Chapter. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this Section 3.45.120 if, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax
benefit.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-16

N LA 366-050

^PROPOSED 0 RDINANGE OF MEASURE V (Continued)

(b)	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty
at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay
interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until

paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the
stated periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and
interest. The notice shall be served on the service user by personal delivery or by
deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
service user at the address to which billing was made by the person required to
collect the tax; or, should the service user have a change of address, to his or her
last known address.

(d)	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within
thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the
Tax Administrator may impose an additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of
the amount of the total tax that is owed.

3.45.130	Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby
directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this Chapter.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations
consistent with provisions of this Chapter for the purpose of interpreting,
clarifying, carrying out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of
the taxes herein imposed. The administrative ruling shall not impose a new tax,
revise an existing tax methodology as stated in this Section, or increase an
existing tax, except as allowed by California Government Code Section
53750(h)(2). A copy of such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file
in the Tax Administrator’s office. To the extent that the Tax Administrator
determines that the tax imposed under this chapter shall not be collected in full
for any period of time from any particular service supplier or service user, that
determination shall be considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator’s
discretion to settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing
methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The
Tax Administrator is not authorized to amend the City’s methodology for
purposes of Government Code Section 53750 and the City does not waive or
abrogate its ability to impose the communication users’ tax in full as a result of
promulgating administrative rulings or entering into agreements.

PR-900459-17

N LA 366-051

(Continued on next page)

........;.PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V.............(Continued)

(c)	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict
requirements of this Chapter and thereby: (1) conform to the billing procedures
of a particular service supplier so long as said agreements result in the collection
of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter; or,
(2) to avoid a hardship where the administrative costs of collection and
remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall
be on file in the Tax Administrator’s office, and are voidable by the Tax
Administrator or the City at any time.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance
with the requirements of this Chapter, of any person required to collect and/or
remit a tax pursuant to this Chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said
person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other
intentional misconduct, the audit period of review shall not exceed a period of
three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by said
person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax
Administrator may make a deficiency determination pursuant to Section 3.45.110
of this Chapter for all taxes (and applicable penalties and interest) owed and not
paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person to the Tax
Administrator. If said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records
to enable the Tax Administrator to verify compliance with this Chapter, the Tax
Administrator is authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency.
Said reasonable estimate shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of
correctness.

(e)	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax
Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to
this Chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the
time for filing the required statement has not already passed when the request is
received. No penalty for delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such
extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at the rate of 75/100ths
(0.75%) percent per month, prorated for any portion thereof.

(f)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who
asserts a right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this
Chapter.

(g)	Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapter to the contrary, the Tax
Administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required
to collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by this Chapter if the
non-collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether the non-collection
was in good faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into consideration industry
practice or other precedence.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 366-052

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V (Continued)

3.45.140	Records.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the
City any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at
least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of
such tax as he/she may have been liable for the collection of and remittance to
the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right
to inspect at a reasonable time.

(b)	The City may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a person to
deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the
Tax Administrator to establish compliance with this Chapter, including the
delivery of records in a common electronic format on readily available media if
such records are kept electronically by the person in the usual and ordinary
course of business. As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to the
Tax Administrator on or before the due date provided in the administrative
subpoena, such person may provide access to such records outside the City on or
before the due date, provided that such person shall reimburse the City for all
reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect those records,
including travel, lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the
normal salary or hourly wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct
the inspection.

(c)	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement
approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer
information pursuant to California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and

7284.7.

(d)	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax
Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent
and billing aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator,
deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the possession of
such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

(e)	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably
denies the Tax Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the
information requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified,
then the Tax Administrator may impose a penalty of $500 on such person for
each day following: i) the initial date that the person refuses to provide such
access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as set forth in the
administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty
imposed under this Chapter.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-19

N LA 366-053

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V

3.45.150	Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or
has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator
under this Chapter from a person or service supplier, it may be refunded as
provided in this section as follows:

(a)	. Written Claim for Refund. The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that
has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter from a person
or service supplier, provided that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of
this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor, or
administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one
year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim
must clearly establish claimant’s right to the refund by written records showing
entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on behalf of
a class or group of taxpayers unless each member of the class has submitted a
written claim under penalty of perjury as provided by this subsection.

(b)	. Compliance with Claims Act. The filing of a written claim pursuant to
Government Code Section 935 is a prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action
brought against the City pursuant to this section shall be subject to the provisions
of Government Code Sections 945.6 and 946. The Tax Administrator, or the City
Council where the claim is in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000), shall act
upon the refund claim within the time period set forth in Government Code
Section 912.4. If the Tax Administrator/City Council fails or refuses to act on a
refund claim within the time prescribed by Government Section 912.4, the claim
shall be deemed to have been rejected by the City Council on the last day of the
period within which the City Council was required to act upon the claim as
provided in Government Code Section 912.4. The Tax Administrator shall give
notice of the action in a form which substantially complies with that set forth in
Government Code Section 913.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-20

N LA 366-054

. NTfCOflttlHied)”^^^^

(c)	. Refunds to Service Suppliers. Notwithstanding the notice provisions of
subsection (a) of this Section, the Tax Administrator may, at his or her
discretion, give written permission to a service supplier, who has collected and
remitted any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed by this
Chapter, to claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is
due the City upon a subsequent monthly retum(s) to the Tax Administrator,
provided that: i) such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year
from the date of overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax; ii) the Tax
Administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis and amount of such credit has
been reasonably established; and, iii) in the case of an overpayment by a service
user to the service supplier that has been remitted to the City, the Tax
Administrator has received proof, to his or her satisfaction, that the overpayment
has been refunded by the service supplier to the service user in an amount equal
to the requested credit.

(d)	. Overpayments as Credits. Notwithstanding subsections (a) through (c)
above, a service supplier shall be entitled to take any overpayment as a credit
against an underpayment whenever such overpayment has been received by the
City within the three (3) years next preceding a deficiency determination or
assessment by the Tax Administrator in connection with an audit instituted by
the Tax Administrator pursuant to Section 3.45.130(d). A service supplier shall
not be entitled to said credit unless it first clearly establishes, to the satisfaction
of the Tax Administrator, the right to the credit by written records showing
entitlement thereto. Under no circumstances shall an overpayment taken as a
credit against an underpayment pursuant to this subsection qualify a service
supplier for a refund to which it would not otherwise be entitled under the
one-year written claim requirement of this section.

3.45.160	Appeals.

(a)	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision
relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.45.150 of this Chapter), deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator.
Any person aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund
pursuant to Section 3.45.150 of this Chapter), deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, shall be required
to comply with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with this
section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government Code Section
935(b)], Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action on behalf of a
class or group of taxpayers.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-21

N LA 366-055

PROPOSED ORDINANGEOF M EASUREV{Gontinued)	^

(b)	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to
a refund pursuant to Section 3.45.150 of this Chapter), deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may
appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within
fourteen (14) days of the date of the decision, deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator which aggrieved
the service user or service supplier.

(c)	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before an independent hearing
officer selected by the City Manager, no more than thirty (30) days from the
receipt of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time and
place of the hearing, as well as any relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar
days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to time upon
mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the Tax
Administrator, and any other interested person may present such relevant
evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination from which the
appeal is taken.

(d)	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s
files, the hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order upholding,
modifying or reversing the determination from which the appeal is taken. The
notice shall be given within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the hearing
and shall state the reasons for the decision. The notice shall specify that the
decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be filed within
ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1094.6.

(e)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid,
and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of
mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

3.45.170	No Injunetion/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer
of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter of any tax or
any amount of tax required to be collected and/or remitted.

3.45.180	Notice of changes to ordinance.

If a tax under this Chapter is added repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base
is changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of
California Public Utilities Code Section 799.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 366-056

PROPOSBEH!^^	.....

3.45.190	Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute
in this Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time,
provided that such reference to a statute herein shall not include any subsequent
amendment thereto, or to any subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a
state or federal agency or court of law with the duty to interpret such law, to the
extent that such amendment or change of interpretation would require voter
approval under California law, or to the extent that such change would result in a
tax decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of a communication service, or
charge therefor, from taxation). Only to the extent voter approval would
otherwise be required or a tax decrease would result, the prior version of the
statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any application or
situation that would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax,
provisions of the amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to
the maximum possible extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed
under this Chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or
federal law, no amendment or modification of this Chapter shall be required to
conform the tax to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to
the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed
under this Chapter.

3.45.200	Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption, Remittance, and
Expenditure.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Chapter have been
properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this
Chapter, and properly expended according to applicable municipal law. The
annual verification shall be performed by a qualified independent third party and
the review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance,
including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be required of tax
remitters where the cost of the verification may exceed the tax revenues to be
reviewed.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-23

N LA 366-057

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V (Continued)

3.45.210 Interaction with Prior Tax

(a)	. Satisfaction of Tax Obligation by Service Users. Any person who pays the
tax levied pursuant to Section 3.45.040 of this Code with respect to any charge
for a communication service shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her
obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant to Sections 3.44.030 and 3.44.070 of this
Code with respect to that charge. Likewise, prior to April 1, 2009, any person
who pays the tax levied pursuant to Section 3.44.030 or 3.44.070 of this Code with
respect to any charge for a service subject to taxation pursuant to this chapter
shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pay the tax levied
pursuant to Section 3.45.040 of this Code with respect to that charge. The intent
of this paragraph is to prevent the imposition of multiple taxes upon a single
utility charge during the transition period from the prior telephone users tax and
cable television users tax to the new communication users’ tax (which transition
period ends April 1, 2009) and to permit communications service providers,
during that transition period, to satisfy their collection obligations by collecting
either tax.

(b)	Collection of Tax by Service Providers. Service providers shall begin to
collect the tax imposed by this Chapter as soon as feasible after the effective date
of the Chapter, but in no event later than permitted by Section 799 of the
California Public Utilities Code.

(c)	Judicial Determinations. In the event that a final court order should
determine that the election enacting this Chapter 3.45 is invalid for whatever
reason, or that any tax imposed under this Chapter 3.45 is invalid in whole or in
part, then the taxes imposed under Sections 3.44.030 and 3.44.070 (unless
repealed) shall automatically continue to apply with respect to any service for
which the tax levied pursuant to this Chapter has been determined to be invalid.
Such automatic continuation shall be effective beginning as of the first date of
service (or billing date) for which the tax imposed by this Chapter is not valid.
However, in the event of an invalidation, any tax (other than a tax that is ordered
refunded by the court or is otherwise refunded by the City) paid by a person with
respect to a service and calculated pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed to
satisfy the tax imposed under Section 3.44.030 and 3.44.070 on that service, so
long as the tax is paid with respect to a service provided no later than six months
subsequent to the date on which the final court order is published.

SECTION 2. Effective Date. This chapter, if approved by the electorate of the
City of Hawthorne at the Special Municipal Election of November 4, 2008, shall
become effective immediately upon the declaration of the results of that election
by the City Council of the City of Hawthorne.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 366-058

SECTION 3. Amendment or Repeal. Chapter 3.45 of the Hawthorne
Municipal Code may be repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote
of the people. However, as required by Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment provision that would
increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance. The People of the
City of Hawthorne affirm that the following actions shall not constitute an
increase of the rate of a tax:

(1) The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set
try this Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

2)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any
definition applicable to the tax, so long as such interpretation or clarification
(even if contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent
with the language of this Ordinance;

3)	The establishment a class of persons that is exempt of excepted from the tax
or the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the
discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this

Ordinance); and

4)	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the City had, for
some period of time, failed to collect the tax.

SECTION 4. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance
shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The people hereby declares that
they would have adopted each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be
declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 5. Ratification of Prior Tax. The People of the City of Hawthorne
hereby ratify and approve the past collection of the Telephone Users Tax and the
Cable Television Users Tax under Chapter 3.44 of the Hawthorne Municipal
Code as it existed prior to the effective date of this Ordinance.

SECTION 6. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the
adoption of this Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing where indicated
below.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900459-25

N LA 366-059

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE V (Continued)

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and
ADOPTED by the people of the City of Hawthorne, California voting on the 4th
day of November, 2008.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this day of , 2008.

LARRY M. GUIDI, Mayor
City of Hawthorne, California

ATTEST;

ANGIE ENGLISH, City Clerk
City of Hawthorne, California

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

GLEN E. SHISHIDO,

City Attorney

City of Hawthorne, California

PR-900459-26

N LA 366-060