RESOLUTION NO. 078-21

A RESOLUTION TO THE CITY COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF ARCATA
PLACING THE UTILITY USERS TAX MEASURE ON THE BALLOT
FOR THE ELECTION TO BE HELD FEBRUARY 5, 2008

WHEREAS, beginning in 1990 the State of California significantly reduced the tax revenues
available to the City for general fund purposes; and,

WHEREAS, the City’s general fund is used to fund such essential governmental services as Police,
Public Works, Parks and Recreation, and other essential services provided by the City to its citizens; and,

WHEREAS, IN 1993 THE City Council, by unanimous vote, adopted a three percent (3%) Utility
Users Tax to partially offset the City’s general fund revenue loss to permit the City to maintain essential
government services, and a majority of the voters of the City of Areata has approved ballot measures
continuing the Utility Users Tax in 1996, 2000, and 2004; and,

WHEREAS, the current Utility Users Tax will terminate by its own terms on November 30, 2008;

and,

WHEREAS, continuation of a three percent (3%) Utility Users Tax will continue to generate
approximately Seven Hundred Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($715,000) per year to partially offset the City’s
general fund revenue loss and permit the City to maintain essential governmental services; and,

WHEREAS, unless the City is able to partially offset the loss in general fund revenues occurring
since 1990, the City will be unable to fund essential government services and will be required to drastically
reduce such services, to the detriment of its citizens.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City Council of the City of Areata hereby
places the following question before the voters of Areata at the election to be held February 5, 2008:

“Shall the City of Areata continue to impose a three percent (3%) Utility Users Tax

(Resolution No. 078-21) on the use of utility services in the City, including gas, electric,

water, wastewater, and communications services?”

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that upon approval of the foregoing question by a majority vote of
the electorate, the City shall adopt the following Utility Users Tax attached hereto and incorporated herein,
and shall direct the City Clerk to codify said tax by replacing Article 1.5 of Chapter 5, Title II, Sections
2625-2645, of the Areata Municipal Code with said duly approved tax.

This resolution shall be effective upon its adoption.

Dated: October 17, 2007

ATTEST:	APPROVED:

City Clerk, City of Areata

Vice-Mayor, City of Areata

///

III

III

III

III

III

III

III

III

III

III

III

III

III

CLERK’S CERTIICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution No. 078-21, passed and
adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Areata, County of Humboldt, State of
California, held on the 17th day of October, 2007, by the following vote:

AYES

NOES

ABSENT

ABSTENTIONS

GROVES, WHEETLEY, MACHI, PITINO, STILLMAN

NONE

NONE

NONE

City Clerk, City of Areata

Page 2 of 2

TITLE II - ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 5 - TAXATION
ARTICLE 1.5 - UTILITY USERS TAX

SEC. 2625. Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this ordinance shall be construed as
defined in this section.

(a)	“Communication Services” shall mean and include the following:

(1)	“Telecommunications Services” including any telephonic type and
quality of communication including that which is interconnected to the public
switched network, which allows people to talk to each other without the necessity
of conversing in Person. In determining whether a service constitutes a
Telecommunication Service, all technology used to transmit voice
communications from one Person to another shall be included irrespective of
whether, for example, such technology utilizes computer processing applications
on the form, code or protocol of the content of the communication or where the
origination and/or termination points of the transmission, conveyance or routing
are not fixed. Such means of transmission shall include, without limitation, for
the purpose of transmitting messages or information (including but not limited to
voice, telegraph, teletypewriter, data facsimile, video, or test) by electronic, radio
or similar means whether such transmission occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic,
light wave, laser, microwave, radio wave [including, but not limited to, cellular
service, personal communications service (PCS), specialized mobile radio
(SMR), and other types of personal wireless service regardless of radio spectrum
used], switching facilities, satellite or any other similar facilities.

(2)	“Ancillary Telecommunication Service” including services that are
associated with or incidental to the provision or delivery of Telecommunication
Services;

(3)	“Video Services” including any and all services related to the providing
or delivering of Video Programming (including origination programming and
programming using Internet protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video) using one or
more channels by a Video Service Supplier, regardless of the technology used to
deliver or provide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which
such services are calculated or billed, and includes data, Telecommunication
Services, or interactive Communication Services, which are functionally
integrated with Video Services;

(4)	“Ancillary Video Services” including services associated with or
incidental to the provision or delivery of Video Services, search functions, or
other interactive services or communications that are ancillary, necessary or
common to the use or enjoyment of Video Programming.

(5)

(b)	“Electrical corporation.” “Gas Corporation” and “Telephone Corporation” shall
have the same meanings as defined in Sections 218, 222, and 234, respectively, of the California

UUT 2008, Resolution 078-21, Tax

Page 1 of 13

Public Utilities Code, except “Electrical Corporation,” and “Gas Corporation” shall also be
construed to include any municipality, public agency or Person engaged in the selling or
supplying of electrical power or Gas to a Service User.

(c)	"Gas" shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel
which may be substituted therefor.

(d)	"Month" shall mean a calendar month.

(e)	"Non-utilitv Service Supplier" shall mean:

(1)	A Service Supplier, other than an Electric Corporation serving within the
City, which generates electrical energy in capacities of at least 50 kilowatts for its
own use or for sale to others; and a supplier of electric distribution services to all
or a significant portion of the City, including but not limited to any publicly-
owned electric utility, investor owned utility, cogenerator, distributed generation
provider, exempt wholesale generator, municipal utility district, federal power
marketing agency, or other supplier or seller of electricity;

(2)	An electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer,
aggregator, pool operator; or

(3)	A Gas supplier other than a Gas Corporation that sells or supplies Gas or
supplemental services to users within the City, including but not limited to an
aggregator, marketer, broker, other than a supplier of Gas distribution services to
all or a significant portion of the City.

(f)	"Person" shall mean any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, association,
syndicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, Massachusetts
business or common law trust, society, individuals, local, state or federal government agency.

(g)	“Place of Primary Use” shall mean the street address where the customer’s use of
Communication Service primarily occurs, generally, the residential street address or the primary
business address of the customer.

(h)	“Post-paid Communication Service” shall mean the Communication Service
obtained by making payment on a communication-by-communication basis either through the use
of a credit card or a payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit
card, or by a charge made to a service number which is not associated with the origination of
termination of the Communication Service.

(i)	“Prepaid Communication Service” shall mean the right to access Communication
Services, which must be paid for in advance and which enables the origination of
communications using an access number or authorization code, whether manually or
electronically dialed, and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the number
declines with use in a known amount.

(j)	"Service Supplier" shall mean any Person that provides Communication, electric.
Gas, water or wastewater Services to a user of such services within the City. The term shall
include any Person required to collect or self-impose and remit a tax as imposed by this Article,

Page 2 of 13

including its billing agent.

(k)	"Service User" shall mean any Person who uses utility services within the City's
boundaries for which a tax is imposed by this Article. For metered utilities, each metered service
shall be treated as a single Service User for that particular utility. For non-metered service, each
address of service usage shall be treated as a single Service User for that particular utility.

(l)	"Tax Administrator" shall mean the Finance Director of the City of Areata.

(m)	“Video Programming” means those programming services commonly provided
to subscribers by a Video Service Supplier including but not limited to basic services, premium
services, audio services, video games, pay-per view services, regardless of the content of such
video programming, or the technology used to deliver such services, and regardless of the manner
or basis on which such services are calculated or billed.

(n)	“Video Service Supplier” means any Person, company, or Service Supplier
which provides or sells one or more channels or Video Programming, or provides or sells the
capability to receive one or more channels of Video Programming, including any
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use and enjoyment of the Video
Programming, to or from a business or residential address in the City, where some fee is paid,
whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that service, whether or not the public
rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or communications. A Video
Service Supplier includes, but is not limited to, multichannel Video Programming distributors [as
defined in 47 U.S.C.A. section 552(13)]; open video systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of
cable television; master antenna television; satellite master antenna television; multichannel
multipoint distribution services (MMDS); video services using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and
IP-video, which provide, among other things, broadcasting and video on demand); direct
broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its video services, now or in the
future; and other suppliers of Video Programming or communications (including two-way
communications), whatever their technology.

SEC. 2626. Exemptions.

(a)	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any Person
when imposition of such tax upon that Person would be in violation of the Constitution of the
United States or that of the State of California.

(b)	The City Council may, by ordinance or resolution, establish one or more classes
of Persons or one or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to payment of a tax imposed
by this chapter and provide that such classes of Persons or service shall be exempt, in whole or in
part from such tax.

(c)	Service Users who receive Low Income Rate Assistance (LIRA) from a Gas
and/or Electric Corporation are exempt from paying electricity and Gas utility users taxes as
imposed by this Article. As used herein. Low Income Rate Assistance is defined as a monthly
discount given by a Gas and/or Electric Corporation to eligible low income customers on their
Gas and electricity charges.

(d)	The use of utility services by the City, other local government agencies, state
agencies, federal agencies, public schools and state universities is exempt from the levy of taxes

Page 3 of 13

imposed by this Article.

(e)	Service Users who receive "universal lifeline service" from a Telephone
Corporation are exempt from paying the utility users tax as provided in this Article on the basic
telephone service. As used herein, "universal lifeline service" is identified as a monthly discount
on the basic service charge given by a Telephone Corporation to eligible low income customers
on their basic telephone service.

(f)	It is the responsibility of any Person who claims a tax exemption under the
provisions of this Article to notify the Tax Administrator and provide sufficient proof of such
exempt status.

SEC. 2627. Communication Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every Person in the City using
Communication Services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three percent
(3%) of the charges made for such Communication Services unless the Service User is exempt
from paying the tax under Section 2626 of this Article. The tax shall be collected from the
Service User by the Communication Services supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable
presumption that the tax on Communication Services, which are billed to a billing or service
address within the City's boundaries, are used, in whole or in part within the City, and such
services are subject to taxation under this Article. If the billing address of the Service User is
different from the service address, the service address of the Service User shall be used.

(b)	Notwithstanding subdivision (a), the tax on charges for Post-paid
Communication Service is sourced to the origination point of the communication signal as first
identified by either (i) the Service Supplier’s communication system, or (ii) information received
by the seller of the service from the Service Supplier, where the system used to transport such
signals is not that of the seller. The tax on charges for Prepaid Communication Service is sourced
to the location associated with the service number.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the Service
User in exchange for the Communication Services. If a non-taxable service and a taxable service
are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the
Service Supplier can identify, by verifiable data, non-taxable charges based upon its books and
records that are kept in the regular course of business, which shall be consistent with generally
accepted accounting principles. The Service Supplier has the burden of proving the proper
apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges.

(d)	Charges for Communication Services shall include, but not be limited to, charges
for the following:

(1)	Franchise fees and access fees (PEG);

(2)	Initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of

Communication Services;

(3)	Late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

(4)	Activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

(5)	All Video Programming services (e.g., basic services, premium services,

audio services, video games, pay-per view services, on demand programming);

UUT 2008, Resolution 078-21, Tax

Page 4 of 13

(6)	Ancillary programming services (e g., electronic program guide services,
search functions, or other interactive services or communications that are ancillary,
necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of the Video Programming);

(7)	Equipment leases (e g., converters, remote devices); and

(8)	Service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of
services, and special services.

(e)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall not include:

(1)	Charges for any type of service or equipment furnished by a Service
Supplier subject to public utility regulation during any period in which the same or
similar services or equipment are also available for sale or lease from Persons other than
a Service Supplier subject to public utility regulation;

(2)	Charges for services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated
telephones except that where such coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a
guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or
other periodic charge shall be included in the base for computing the amount of tax due;
and

(3)	Charges for private mobile radio service. For purposes of this Article
“private mobile radio service” is a radio Communication Service which is not a
commercial mobile service. A “mobile service” means a radio Communication Service
carried on between mobile stations or receivers and land stations, and by mobile stations
communicating among themselves, and includes (A) both one-way and two-way radio
Communication Services, (B) a mobile service which provides a regularly interacting
group of base, mobile, portable, and associated control and relay stations (whether
licensed on an individual, cooperative, or multiple basis) for private one-way or two-way
land mobile radio communications by eligible users over designated areas of operation,
and (C) any service for which a license is required in a personal communications service
established pursuant to the proceeding entitled “Amendment to the Commission’s Rules
to Establish New Personal Communications Services” (GEN Docket No. 90-314; ET
Docket No. 92-100), or any successor proceeding. A “commercial mobile service” is a
“mobile service” that is provided for profit and makes interconnected service available
(A) to the public or (B) to such classes of eligible users as to be effectively available to a
substantial portion of the public.

(f)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of Communication Services
subject to tax under this section, any Service User, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the
Service User has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such Communication
Services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax
legally imposed in such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not
exceed the tax owed to the City under this section. For purposes of establishing sufficient legal
nexus for the imposition and collection of utility users’ tax on charges for Communication
Services pursuant to this Article, “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the
imposition and collection of the utility users’ tax to the fullest extent permitted by California and
federal law, and as it may change from time to time.

(g)	The tax on Communication Services imposed by this section shall be collected
from the Service User by the Service Supplier. The amount of tax collected in one Month shall be

UUT 2008, Resolution 078-21, Tax

Page 5 of 13

remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following Month; and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following Month.

SEC. 2628. Electricity Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax on the use of electrical energy supplied by a
Service Supplier or a Non-utility Service Supplier which is used within the City's boundaries,
unless the service user is exempt from paying the tax under section 2626 of this Article. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three percent (3%) of the charges made for such
electricity, and for any supplemental services or other associated activities directly related to
and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the service user. The tax shall be paid by the
Person responsible for paying for such service, and shall be collected from the service user by the
Service Supplier or Non-utility Service Supplier, or its billing agent. An Electric Corporation
using electrical energy within the City's boundaries is exempt from paying the taxes imposed by
this section.

(b)	The tax applicable to electrical energy provided by a Non-utility Service Supplier
shall be determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charge the service user would have
incurred if the energy used had been provided by the electrical corporation franchised by the City.
Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from the City. Non-utility Service Suppliers
shall install, maintain and use an appropriate utility-type metering system which will enable
compliance with this section.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service
user in exchange for the electricity services. If a non-taxable service and a taxable service are
billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the Service
Supplier can identify, by verifiable data, non-taxable charges based upon its books and records
that are kept in the regular course of business, which shall be consistent with generally accepted
accounting principles. The Service Supplier has the burden of proving the proper apportionment
of taxable and non-taxable charges.

(d)	As used in this section, "charges" shall apply to all services, components, and
items that are (i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use, or enjoyment of electrical service;
or (ii) historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include but is not
limited to the following charges:

(1)	Energy charges;

(2)	Distribution or transmission	charges;

(3)	Metering charges;

(4)	Stand-by, reserves, firming,	ramping, voltage support, regulation,

emergency, or other similar minimum charges for services;

(5)	Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, demand charges, independent system operator (ISO) charges, stranded
investment or competitive transition charges (CTC), public purpose program charges,
nuclear decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts (bond financing charges),
franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and other charges, fees
or surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use, or enjoyment of
electric service; and

Page 6 of 13

(6)	All other charges, fees, surcharges which are mandated by the California
Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, whether or
not such charges, fees or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on the
customer billing.

(e)	As used in this section, the term "use of electrical energy" shall not be construed
to mean the use of such energy by a storage battery; provided, however, that the term shall
include the receipt of such energy for the charging of storage batteries. Nor shall the words "use
of electrical energy" be construed to mean the receipt of such energy by an electrical corporation
or a governmental agency at a point within the City for resale.

(f)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the Person responsible for
paying for the electrical energy service by the Person selling such electrical energy. The amount
of tax collected in one Month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day
of the following month.

SEC. 2629. Gas Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon the use of Gas supplied by a Service Supplier
or Non-utility Service Supplier which is transported through mains or pipes or by mobile
transport, and which is used within the City's boundaries, unless the service user is exempt from
paying the tax under section 2626 of this Article. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of three percent (3%) of the charges made for the Gas and shall be paid by the Person
responsible for paying for such service. A Gas Corporation using Gas within the City's
boundaries is exempt from paying the tax imposed by this section.

(b)	The tax applicable to Gas or Gas transportation provided by Non-utility Service
Suppliers shall be determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user
would have incurred if the Gas or Gas transportation had been provided by the Gas Corporation
franchised by the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from the City. Non-
utility Service Suppliers shall install, maintain and use an appropriate utility-type metering
system which will enable compliance with this section.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service
user in exchange for the Gas service. If a non-taxable service and a taxable service are billed
together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the Service
Supplier can identify, by verifiable data, non-taxable charges based upon its books and records
that are kept in the regular course of business, which shall be consistent with generally accepted
accounting principles. The Service Supplier has the burden of proving the proper apportionment
of taxable and non-taxable charges.

(d)	As used in this section, "charges" shall apply to all services, components, and
items that are (i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use, or enjoyment of Gas service; or (ii)
historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for Gas service by a local distribution
company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include but is not limited to, the
following charges:

(1) The commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of Gas owned by
the service user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting,

UUT 2008, Resolution 078-21, Tax

Page 7 of 13

storage, gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with the
production and delivery of gas), which is delivered through mains or pipes;

(2)	Gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not
included in commodity charges);

(3)	Capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, transition charges, customer charges, annual and monthly
charges, and other charges, fees or surcharges which are necessary for or common to the
receipt, use, or enjoyment of Gas service; and

(4)	Charges, fees or surcharges for Gas services or programs which are
mandated, by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission whether or not such charges, fees or surcharges appear on a
bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

(e)	As used in this section, "charges" shall not include: (1) charges made for Gas
which is to be resold and delivered through mains and pipes; (2) charges made for Gas used in the
propulsion of a motor vehicle, as authorized in the Vehicle Code of the State of California; or (3)
charges made for Gas used in the generation of electrical energy by a public utility or a
governmental agency.

(f)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the Person responsible for
paying for the Gas service by the Person selling the Gas. The amount collected in one Month
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following Month.

SEC. 2630. Water Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon the use of water supplied by the City which
is delivered through mains or pipes to a service user located within the City's boundaries, unless
the service user is exempt from paying the tax under section 2626 of this Article. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three percent (3%) of the charges made for such
water and shall be paid by the Person responsible for paying for such water service.

(b)	There shall be excluded from the tax imposed in this section charges made for
water which is to be resold and delivered through mains or pipes.

(c)	As used in this section, "charges" shall include monthly service and usage fees,
and shall not include connection or installation fees or charges.

(d)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the Person paying for
such water service by the City. The amount collected in one Month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator on or before the last day of the following Month.

SEC. 2631. Wastewater Collection System Users Tax.

(a) There is hereby imposed a tax upon the use of the City's wastewater collection
system, unless the service user is exempt from paying the tax under section 2626 of this Article.
The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three percent (3%) of the charges made for
such service and shall be paid by the Person responsible for paying for such wastewater collection
service.

(b)	As used in this section, "charges" shall include monthly service and usage fees,

Page 8 of 13

and shall not include connection or installation fees or charges.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the Person responsible for
paying for such wastewater collection service by the City. The amount collected in one Month
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following Month.

SEC. 2632. Maximum Amount of Tax.

(a)	The taxes levied in this Article shall be limited for each service user to a
combined total utility users tax of $ 1,500.00 per fiscal year. This amount shall be subject to an
adjustment each fiscal year, beginning on July 1, 2010, based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI)
- All Urban Consumers, U S. All Items, 1982-84 = 100 (CUUROOOOSAO), Annual from prior
calendar year.

(b)	Persons who use a particular utility service at a single location, but have more
than one meter for such service may combine service usage from all meters at that location to
compute the maximum tax. Such Persons shall apply to the Tax Administrator for treatment in
accordance with this section.

(c)	It shall be the responsibility of the Person responsible for paying the tax
imposed by this Article to present to the Tax Administrator sufficient evidence to prove that
combined taxes levied under this Article reach or exceed $1,500.00 per fiscal year for a particular
service user. Sufficient evidence includes billing receipts or other proof as determined
appropriate by the Tax Administrator.

(d)	Once the Tax Administrator has determined that the total utility users tax for a
particular service user has reached or exceeded the limitation described in this section, the City
will inform the Service Suppliers and thereafter bill the Person responsible for paying the tax
imposed by this Article directly on a quarterly basis for the $1,500.00 per fiscal year combined
tax.

(e)	It is the responsibility of the Person responsible for paying the tax imposed by
this Article to notify the Tax Administrator if service usage for a particular service user drops
below such levels that the tax limitation imposed in this section is no longer appropriate.

SEC. 2633. Remittance of Tax.

Taxes collected from a Person responsible for paying the tax imposed by this Article
which are not remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the due dates provided in this
Article are delinquent. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return may
be postmarked on the first regular working day following a Saturday/Sunday, or legal holiday.

SEC. 2634 Effects of Commingling Nontaxable Items With Taxable Items.

If any one or more nontaxable items are bundled or billed together with one or more
taxable items (as provided for by the Article) under a single charge on a customer’s bill, the entire
single charge shall be deemed taxable unless, upon the written request of the customer, the
Service Supplier can reasonably identify the nontaxable component of the single charge based
upon one or more of the following methodologies, as elected by the tax administrator:

Page 9 of 13

(a)	The average industry charges for the individual nontaxable items included in the
entire single charge;

(b)	The amount of the entire single charge less the average industry charges for the
individual taxable items in the entire single charge; or

(c)	The Service Supplier’s books and records that are kept in the regular course of
business, which must be consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.

SEC. 2635	Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this
Article, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the
imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by
state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by
statutory enactment. Any Communication Service (including voice over Internet protocol, VoIP)
used by a Person with a service address in the City, which service is capable of terminating a call
to another Person or the general telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption
that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts? Exists for the purposes of imposing a tax, or
establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this Article.

SEC. 2636.	Actions to Collect.

Any tax and/or penalty required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this
Article shall be deemed a debt owed by the Person responsible for paying the tax imposed by this
Article to the City. Any such tax collected from a Person responsible for paying the tax imposed
by this Article which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed
to the City by the Service Supplier. Any Person owing money to the City under the provisions of
this Article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such
amount.

SEC. 2637. Duty to Collect - Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this Article shall be performed as

follows:

(a)	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along
with the charges made in accordance with the regular billing practices of the Service Supplier.
Except in those cases where a Person responsible for paying for services pays the full amount of
said charges but does not pay any portion of a tax imposed by this Article, if the amount paid is
less than the full amount of the charge and the tax which has accrued for the billing period, a
proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid.

(b)	The duty to collect the tax from a Person responsible for paying the tax imposed
by this Article shall commence with the beginning of the first full regular billing period
applicable to that Person who starts on or after the operative date of this ordinance. Where a
Person receives more than one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the
duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

Page 10 of 13

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this Article.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations not
inconsistent with provisions of this Article for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing the
payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. This administrative ruling shall
be consistent with and shall not impose a new tax, or increase an existing tax without voter
approval if such administrative ruling is (1) consistent with the existing Areata Municipal Code
tax language; and, (2) merely reflects a change in, clarification to, or new rendition of (i) the
definition, interpretation, or application of substantial nexus by a court of competent jurisdiction
or by preemptive state or federal law, for purposes of taxation; or, (ii) the sourcing of taxable
transactions based upon industry custom and practice, which furthers administrative efficiency
and minimizes multi-jurisdictional taxation. A copy of such rules and regulations shall be on file
in the Tax Administrator's office. The Tax Administrator may, from time to time, issue and
disseminate to Service Suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this
Article, such administrative ruling identifying those services, or charges therefor, that are subject
to the tax of this Article.

(c)	The Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements to vary the
strict requirements of this Article so that collection of any tax imposed herein may be made in
conformance with the billing procedures of a particular Service Supplier so long as said
agreements result in collection of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of
this Article. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any Person who asserts a
right to exemption from the tax imposed by this ordinance. The Tax Administrator shall provide
the Service Supplier with the name of any Person who the Tax Administrator determines is
exempt from the tax imposed hereby, together with the address and account number to which
service is supplied to any such exempt Person. The Tax Administrator shall notify the Service
Supplier of termination of any Person's right to exemption hereunder, or the change of any
address to which service is supplied to any exempt Person.

(e)	The Tax Administrator shall provide notice to all Service Suppliers at least ninety
(90) days prior to any annexation or other change in the City's boundaries. Said notice shall set
forth the revised boundaries by street and address, along with a copy of the final annexation order
from the Local Area Formation Commission (LAFCO).

(f)	The Tax Administrator may, from time to time, survey Service Suppliers to
identify the various unbundled billing components of service that they may commonly provide to
residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the charges therefor, including
those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing
such service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such Service
Suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are: (1)
necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of service; or (2) currently are or
historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for service by a local distribution
company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject
to the tax of this Article.

Page 11 of 13

(a)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a Person responsible for paying
the taxes imposed by this Article has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed from the
amounts remitted to a Service Supplier for a period of four (4) or more billing periods, or that a
Person responsible for paying the taxes imposed by this Article has refused to pay the amount of
tax to such Person, the Tax Administrator may relieve such Service Supplier of the obligation to
collect such taxes due under this Article from certain named Persons for specific billing periods.

(b)	The Service Supplier shall provide the City with a report of the amounts refused
along with the names and addresses of the service users refusing to pay the tax.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the Person responsible for paying the taxes
imposed by this Article that the Tax Administrator has assumed responsibility to collect the taxes
due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the
Person responsible for paying the taxes imposed by this Article by handing it to him or her
personally or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon,
addressed to such Person at the address to which billing was made by the Service Supplier; or,
should such Person's address change, to the last known address.

(d)	If a Person responsible for paying the taxes imposed by this Article fails to remit
the tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15) days from the date of the service of the notice
upon such Person in accordance with subsection (c) herein, which shall be the date of mailing if
service is not accomplished in Person, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of
the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than Five Dollars ($5.00). The
penalty shall become part of the tax herein required to be paid.

SEC. 2640.	Records.

It shall be the duty of every Person required to collect and remit to the City any tax
imposed by this ordinance to keep and preserve, for a period of three (3) years, all records as may
be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as such Person may have been liable for the
remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to
inspect at all reasonable times.

SEC. 2641.	Refunds.

(a)	A Service Supplier who has collected any amount of tax illegally, erroneously, or
more than once may refund such amount to the Person responsible for paying such tax and claim
credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due upon any other monthly
returns, providing such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than three (3) years from the
date of overpayment.

(b)	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or paid
more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under this
Article, it may be refunded to a Service Supplier or Person responsible for paying such tax by the
City, provided a claim in writing, therefore, stating under penalty of peijury the specified grounds
upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the Tax Administrator within three (3) years of the
date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Administrator. No refund
shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless the claimant establishes his right thereto

UUT 2008, Resolution 078-21, Tax

Page 12 of 13

by written records, and, in the case of a Person responsible for paying the taxes imposed by this
Article, that such Person has been unable to obtain a refund or adjustment from the Service
Supplier who collected the tax. Nothing herein shall permit the fding of a refund claim on behalf
of a group of a class or group of taxpayers. The filing of a written claim is a prerequisite to any
suit thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to this section shall be subject to the
provisions of the Government Code sections 945.6 and 946.

(c)	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a Service Supplier,

pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent
jurisdiction, makes a refund to Persons responsible for paying taxes imposed by this Article of
charges for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to this Article on the amount of such
refunded charges may also be refunded to such Persons by the Service Suppliers, and the Service
Supplier can claim credit for such refunded taxes against the amount which is due upon any
monthly returns. In the event this Article is repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will
be borne by the City.

SEC. 2642. Termination of Tax.

(a)	The levy of taxes as provided in this Article shall expire on November 30, 2016.
The use of utility services thereafter shall no longer be subject to utility users taxes.

(b)	The termination of the levy of taxes on November 30, 2016, shall not terminate
the obligation to pay taxes levied on services used prior to such date. Taxes levied prior to such
date shall remain a debt payable to the City. All provisions in this Article, except those relating
to the levy of taxes, shall continue with full force and effect after such date.

SEC. 2643. Severability. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this Article or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this ordinance or any part
thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause of phrases be declared
unconstitutional.

SEC. 2644. Limitation on Actions. Any action to challenge the validity or legality of any
provision of this resolution on any grounds whatsoever including, without limitation, the
proceedings by which it was adopted, any substantive provision or any other defect shall be
brought by court action commenced within ninety (90) days of the date of adoption of this
resolution.

SEC. 2645. Operative Date. All taxes levied by this ordinance are to be used for the usual
and current general fund expenses of the City. This Article will go into effect on December 1,
2008, provided it is ratified by a majority of the electorate at the February 5, 2008, general
election.

Page 13 of 13