Measure L: Vital Services Measure, City of Newark



To prevent severe cuts to critical Newark city services, including police officers and patrols, 
crime prevention, anti-gang/drug prevention, fire protection and 911 emergency services, senior 
services and health programs, programs for children and teens, street maintenance and pothole 
repair, and general city services, shall the City of Newark establish a 3.9 percent Utility Users 
Tax for six years exempting low-income seniors and requiring independent audits with all funds 
staying local?


Meaning of Voting Yes/No


A YES vote on this measure means:

A YES vote means that the 
Utility Users Tax will be adopted.


A NO vote on this measure means:

A NO vote means that the Utility Users Tax will not be adopted.



Impartial Analysis from City Attorney for Newark




Arguments For Measure L

YES on L gives you LOCAL CONTROL over LOCAL FUNDS for LOCAL NEEDS.

LOCAL CONTROL

It's time we take control of our own money to protect local city services. The State has just taken 
almost 1.2 million dollars from Newark to balance its budget. YES on L protects the services Newark 
residents depend on from more money grabs by Sacramento politicians.
YES on L generates protected 
funding for Newark's local community services that can't be taken to balance the State's fiscal crisis. 
WE use Measure L money for what WE need in Newark!



LOCAL FUNDS

YES on L provides Newark with a reliable 
local revenue source to prevent severe cuts to public safety, 9-1-1 emergency, senior services and 
other essential local services. Every penny is legally required to be spent in Newark for services 
that benefit YOU. No money can go to other communities.
YES on L includes annual independent financial 
audits and reports to the community to keep the City accountable for how the funds are spent. Low-income 
seniors are exempt from Measure L.



LOCAL NEEDS
 
YES on L prevents our City from having to make more severe 
cuts to fire and 9-1-1 emergency response services.
 YES on L prevents additional severe cuts to police 
services and patrols.
YES on L maintains the City's ability to respond quickly and effectively to a natural 
disaster like an earthquake.
 YES on L reduces and prevents crime in our neighborhoods by protecting community 
policing programs where police officers work closely with businesses and community organizations.
YES on L 
funds youth services, such as anti-drug and gang prevention programs, senior programs, and other essential 
services.
 Join the Newark Police Officers and Firefighters associations, the Newark Chamber of Commerce, 
Newark Employees Association, and youth and senior advocates in supporting YES on L. 


Signers:
s/David Smith
Mayor of Newark

s/Patrick Smith
 President, Newark Police Officers Association

s/Bob Bodner
 President, Newark Firefighters Association

s/Linda Ashley
President/CEO, Newark Chamber of Commerce

s/Ray J. Rodriguez
 Board Member, Newark Unified School District Board of Trustees



Rebuttal to Arguments For

Please Vote NO on Measure L, Newark's Utility User TAX. Don't believe the scare tactics of the Special 
Interest Groups urging you to vote for this NEW TAX. This 3.9% TAX is in addition to what you already pay to 
the City, County, State and Federal Governments.
 	
•	The amount we will be taxed isn't fixed and 
will be charged based on the use of utilities we cannot live without, phones, electricity, and gas. The more 
you use, the more TAX you pay.
	
•	The TAX will increase each year tied to rising utility charges. Even if you don't use more utilities, 
you will still pay more. (It will take even more money out of your pocket as the utility companies raise their 
rates).
	
•	This ADDITIONAL TAX will be spent any way the Mayor and City Council see fit because the TAX goes into 
the General Fund and the City Council controls how those monies are spent.
	
•	Federal monies have already been designated to maintain many "vital services".
They say that there will be 
an annual audit on how the
 money is spent. What about an audit on where our surplus of $35 million went?

 Most 
importantly, we need to be attracting new businesses not drive them away. This TAX will force businesses to leave 
the City.
 For more information and facts please visit our web site http://home.earthlink.net/~lewis2/vote.nonewarktax/

or email nonewarktax@yahoo.com

Please Vote No on Measure L, Newark's Utility User's TAX.

s/Stewart "Dean" Lewis

s/Wayne W. Miller
s/Don A. Marenzi

s/Margaret Lewis



Arguments Against Measure L

Please vote NO on the User Utility Tax (UUT). This is an added tax to be placed on over-burdened citizens of Newark, 
in troubled times, for unspecified benefits, on top of what you already pay the City, County, State, and Federal 
governments.
THIS IS WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT THIS TAX.
The City claims they need a UUT to fund programs. They haven't 
told you many programs are receiving Federal stimulus monies:
	
•	$700,000 for anti-drug programs.
	
•	$600,000 for at-risk kids and after school programs,
	
•	$1,800,000 for programs like Head Start.
	
•	$900,000 for paving our streets.

We are asked to pay more in taxes? WHY? In 2005, we had a surplus of $35 million dollars. Where is it now?
 UUT's 
go to the City's general fund, to be spent as the Mayor and City Council desire, with no restrictions on how the 
money's spent. Do you want your hard-earned money spent on pet projects like the proposed championship golf course?

At a time when we need to encourage businesses to stay in Newark, they are proposing taxes that will drive them away. 
Empty businesses do not create sales tax. We need to help them stay here in Newark, not chase them away. 
What 
utilities will be taxed? Cell and regular phone services, gas, electricity, cable...things you need on a daily basis. 
There are limited exemptions for senior citizens, but none for lower income families and those who have lost jobs.

Our utility costs will increase dramatically in the next few years, so will the proposed tax. It is a percentage of 
our utility bills.
 Keep Newark politicians' hands out of your pocket!
This is a tax they don't need and WE CAN'T AFFORD.

Please vote NO on Newark's additive Users Utility Tax.

s/Stewart "Dean" Lewis

s/WayneW. Miller

s/Patricia C. Knight

s/Don A. Marenzi

s/Margaret Lewis



Rebuttal to Arguments Against

Yes on L for LOCAL CONTROL. Measure L provides local money for local needs - preserve Newark's quality of life!
 Don't 
believe opponents' misleading statements - they're only meant to scare voters.
 The City isn't hiding anything, a secret 
surplus is ridiculous + we could only wish! There is no money. Deep cuts have already been made; services are down to 
barebones!
One time federal funds for specific programs are not long term solutions we need for Newark. And nothing can 
make up for the ongoing state takeaways.
In the past three years, the City has made millions in cuts to operate as 
efficiently as possible. Although Newark has demonstrated good fiscal stewardship and has been able to balance the budget, 
the cost for essential services is more than our declining revenues can support - especially when the State continues to 
take more and more away from Newark.
 Yes on L ensures that Newark has a LOCAL source of revenue that cannot be taken by 
Sacramento or Washington D.C.
Yes on L requires annual independent audits to ensure money is spent responsibly.
Yes on L 
protects the Newark we all know and love by ensuring we have the level of city services we rely on--including neighborhood 
policing, youth services, and senior programs.
 Yes on L is supported by local businesses and homeowners because they understand 
the value of a safe Newark.
 Don't be fooled by scare tactics and misinformation.
 YES on L: LOCAL CONTROL - money for Newark, 
not Sacramento!

s/F. Preston "Bud" Spalding
 Retired Fire Chief, City of Newark

s/Bernie Nillo
Local Parent and Volunteer

s/Mel Nunes
Senior Citizens Advisory Committee Member

s/Patricia "Pat" Danielson
 Washington Hospital Healthcare District Boardmember

s/Luis Freitas
Chairman of 
the Board, Newark Pavilion


