SAMPLE BALLOT

and Voter Information Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2009

www.solanocounty.com/elections

POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

4 8 / F C

OFFICIAL BALLOT - CONSOLIDATED ELECTION

+

County of Solano

Consolidated Election

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

To vote for the candidate of your choice, BLACKEN the oval to the left of
the candidate's name. Do not vote for more than the authorized number
of candidates. To vote for a qualified write-in candidate, fill in the oval
next to the write-in line and write the candidate's name on the write-in
line. To vote on any measures, fill in the oval next to "YES" or "NO." Use
a ballpoint pen with black ink. If you make a mistake, ask a pollworker or
call the Registrar of Voter’s Office at (707) 784-6675 for a replacement
ballot.

MEASURES SUBMITTED
VOTERS

Valleio City Unified School District
Member, Governing Board
Vote for no more than THREE

RUSCAL J. CAYANGYANG

College Student

HAZEL A. WILSON

Corporate Audit Manager

ADRIENNE WATERMAN

Arts Administrator

CRIS OGGEE VILLANUEVA

Incumbent

LOU BORDISSO

Mental Health Provider

JUDITH BAUMGARDNER

Events/Parly Planner

CITY

City of Vallejo

Member, City Council
Vote for no more than THREE

STEPHANIE GOMES

Vallejo City Councilmember

SAM KURSHAN

Information Technology Consultant

JOHNATHAN LOGAN, JR.

Local Government Administrator

MARIE "PUNKIE" NELSON

Retired Manager

TOM BARTEE

Incumbent

MARTI BROWN

Senior Urban Planner

HERMIE R. SUNGA

Vice Mayor

-MEAS

Shall an ordinance be adopted to
reduce the tax rate and
modernize the existing Utility
Users’Tax only on
telecommunication and video
services, to preserve funding for
essential City services including
police, fire, emergency medical
response, street repair and other
City services, treating all
taxpayers equally regardless of
technology used, with all revenue
and expenditures subject to the
City’s annual independent audit
ana keeping locally generated
revenues in Vallejo?

c::> yes

NO

END OF BALLOT

VOTE NEXT COLUMN

BT 5

1-1-1

7.Z0.0/Q11002 © Election Systems & Software, Inc. 1981,2002

COMMUNICATION USERS TAX
MEASURE U

VALLEJO COMMUNICATION USERS TAX REDUCTION, MODERNIZATION AND SERVICES PROTECTION MEASURE	
Shall an ordinance be adopted to reduce the tax rate and modernize the existing Utility Users' Tax only on telecommunication and video services, to preserve funding for essential City services including police, fire, emergency medical response, street repair and other City services, treating all taxpayers equally regardless of technology used, with all revenue and expenditures subject to the City’s annual independent audit and keeping locally generated revenues in Vallejo?	YES
	NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U
City Of Vallejo
Communication Users Tax

Measure U, if approved by a majority vote, would authorize an
amendment to the Vallejo Municipal Code by adding Chapter 3.13 with
respect to a Communication Users’ Tax, commonly referred to as a
Utility Users Tax (“UUT”).

Since 1969, the City has collected a UUT on telecommunication, gas,
electricity, and video services. The UUT is a general tax. All revenue
generatedgoesintotheCity’s General Fund toprovide essential government
services including, but not limited to: police, fire, emergency medical
response, street repair and other City services. The Telecommunication
and Video UUT generates approximately $5.2 million annually.

The City of Vallejo, like most California cities with UUT ordinances,
originally determined which telecommunication services would be
subject to the UUT by referencing definitions in federal law. Recent
interpretations of those federal law definitions have changed and
challenges to the collection of a UUT in federal and state courts have
created uncertainty about the application and reach of the City’s UUT.

Measure U would:

• Replace older definitions of telecommunications and video,
and would treat users of such services in a uniform and equitable
manner, regardless of the means of transmission or technology
used. As a result, private communication services (e.g.,T-1), voice
over internet (VoIP), paging, and text messaging, would be treated
the same as traditional telephone services.

•	Reduce the tax rate from 7.5% to 7.3% for all communication
services, regardless of technology.

•	It would not apply to charges for internet services such as
e-mail, and would specifically exclude digital downloads like
music, games, and ringtones. Federal law prohibits any local tax
on “internet access" including DSL and cable modem.

•	Authorizes administrative tools for addressing communication
taxation issues including administrative rulings for the purpose of
interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and enforcing the payment,
collection and remittance of the UUT.

•	Require an annual independent audit and verification to confirm
the UUT is being properly collected, remitted and spent.

The UUT would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and certain
service charges, and would be collected by the service provider. As
a result of updating the definitions or future changes to federal law,
customers using emerging technologies for communications services
will be subject to the UUT in the same way as are customers using
current communication technologies (e.g., “landlines”).

Measure U requires approval of a majority of the voters. A “Yes" vote for
Measure U will approve the updates described above, slightly reduce
the tax rate, and avoid potential court rulings that could preclude the
City from continuing to collect the UUT for certain telecommunication
and video services. A “No” vote against Measure U will leave in place
the City’s existing UUT ordinance, without update ora decrease in the
tax rate, and at risk from adverse court rulings.

Isl Frederick G.Soley

City Attorney, City of Vallejo

Solano 48 / 24

4 8/24

48/24

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

Yes on U - Preserve Vallejo’s essential services.

Your Yes vote on U will continue support for important services
including:

1)	Police

2)	Fire

3)	Emergency medical response

4)	Street repair

Without Measure U, the City could lose some or all of the $5.2 million
annual revenue that supports needed services.

Measure U is NOT a new tax. U is important NOW for Vallejo’s
FUTURE. We must change the existing Communication Utility Users’
Tax (UUT) to protect essential services for all residents.

Since 1969, Vallejo’s citizens have paid a UUT on telecommunication
services. Over the past 40 years technology has changed and there
are services that didn’t even exist back when our UUT was enacted.
That means not everyone is being treated equally - some people
aren’t payingl

To keep up with communication advances, Vallejo must update the
communication services definitions and close unintended loopholes
ensuring all taxpayers are treated equally regardless of the services
they use now, or in the future.

YES on U REDUCES THE CURRENT TAX RATE on tele-
communication services. Measure U does NOT make changes to
water, sewer, gas or electric services.

Yes on U protects existing local revenues and helps stabilize Vallejo's
financial situation. This is a protected, reliable revenue source that
CANNOT be taken by Sacramento. Without our UUT, there will be
more fire station closures, cuts to police, 9-1-1 emergency response
and other services.

The economic recession, state budget crisis, and Vallejo’s bankruptcy
have already reduced our quality of life and property values. Further
cuts will only affect our home values even more - we must secure our
UUT money.

YES on U CONTINUES TOUGH ACCOUNTABILITY. Annual,
independent financial audits keep the City accountable to you - the
voters.

Vote YES on U - protect Valleio’s local revenues and vital city services
while reducing current tax rates.

Isl Mayor Osby Davis

Solano 48 / 25

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U

(None filed)

liiili lii 111:1
4 8/25

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE U

ORDINANCE NO.__________

EXHIBIT 1

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF VALLEJO, CALIFORNIA ADDING CHAPTER 3.13
OF TITLE 3 TO THE VALLEJO MUNICIPAL CODE WITH
RESPECTTO A COMMUNICATION USERS’TAX.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF VALLEJO, CALIFORNIA DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.13 of the Vallejo Municipal Code is hereby
added, and it shall read as follows:

“ARTICLE 1. GENERAL.

3.13.010 Short Title

This chapter shall be known as the “Communication Users’Tax
Law” of the City of Vallejo.

3.13.020	Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter
shall be construed as defined in this section.

(a)	. “Ancillary telecommunication services” means services that
are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of
telecommunications services, including but not limited to the following
services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that
links two or more participants of an audio or video conference call
and may include the provision of a telephone number. Conference
bridging service does not include the telecommunications services
used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunications billing service” means an
ancillary service of separately stating information pertaining to
individual calls on a customer’s billing statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance" means an ancillary service of providing
telephone number information and/or address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered
in connection with one or more telecommunications services,
which offers advanced calling features that allow customers to
identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections,
including conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables
the customer to store, send or receive recorded messages.
Voice mail service does not include any vertical services that the
customer may be required to have in order to utilize the voice mail
service.

(b)	. “Ancillary video services” means services that are associated
with or incidental to the provision or delivery of video services, including
but not limited to electronic program guide services, recording services,
search functions, or other interactive services or communications that
are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of
video services.

(c)	. “Billing Address” means the mailing address of the service
user where the service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by
the customer.

(d)	. “City” means the City of Vallejo.

(e)	. “Communication Services” means: “telecommunications
services", “ancillary telecommunication services", “video services” and
“ancillary video services”.

(f)	. “Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the meaning and
usage as set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4
U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations thereunder.

(g)	. “Month” means a calendar month.

(h)	. “Paging Service” means a “telecommunications service”
that provides transmission of coded radio signals for the purpose of
activating specific pagers; such transmissions may include messages
and/or sounds.

(i)	. “Person” means, without limitation, any natural individual,
firm, trust, common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association,
syndicate, club, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability
company, limited liability partnership, corporation (including foreign,
domestic, and non-profit), municipal district or municipal corporation
(other than the City), cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other
representative appointed by order of any court.

(j)	. “Place of Primary Use” means the street address
representative of where the customer’s use of the communications
service primarily occurs, which must be the residential street address or
the primary business street address of the customer.

(k)	. “Post-paid telecommunication service” means the
telecommunication service obtained by making a payment on a
communication-by-communication basis either through the use of a
credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit
card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service number which is not
associated with the origination or termination of the telecommunication
service.

(l)	. “Prepaid telecommunication service” means the right to
access telecommunication services, which must be paid for in advance
and which enables the origination of communications using an access
number or authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed,
and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the number
declines with use in a known amount.

(m) . “Private	telecommunication service” means a
telecommunication service that entitles the customer to exclusive or
priority use of a communications channel or group of channels between
or among termination points, regardless of the manner in which such
channel or channels are connected, and includes switching capacity,
extension lines, stations, and any other associated services that are
provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A
communications channel is a physical or virtual path of communications
over which signals are transmitted between or among customer channel
termination points (r.e., the location where the customer either inputs or
receives the communications).

(n)	. “Service Address" means either:

(1)	The location of the service user’s communication equipment
from which the communication originates orterminates, regardless
of where the communication is billed or paid; or,

(2)	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown
(e.g., mobile telecommunications service or VoIP service), the
service address means the location of the service user’s place of
primary use.

Solano 48 / 26

(з)	. For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address"

means the location associated with the service number or, if not

known, the point of sale of the services.

(o)	. “Service Supplier” means any entity or person, including
the City, that provides communication service to a user of such service
within the City.

(p)	. “Service User” means a person required to pay a tax
imposed under the provisions of this Chapter.

(q)	. “State” means the State of California.

(r)	. “Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement” means
the multi-state agreement commonly known and referred to as the
Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, as it is amended from
time to time.

(s)	. “Tax Administrator” shall mean the Finance Director or his
or her designee.

(t)	. “Telecommunications Service" means the transmission,
conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video or any other
information or signal to a point, or between or among points, whatever
the technology used. The term “telecommunications services" includes
such transmission, conveyance or routing in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content
for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to
whether such services are referred to as voice over internet protocol
(VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal Communications
Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or
data services that is functionally integrated with “telecommunication
services”. “Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to
the following services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such
services are calculated or billed: ancillary telecommunication services;
intrastate, interstate, and international telecommunication services;
mobile telecommunications service; prepaid telecommunication service;
post-paid telecommunication service; private telecommunication
service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission); 900
service (or any other similar numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission for services whereby subscribers who
call in to pre-recorded or live service).

(и)	. “Video Programming” means those programming services
commonly provided to subscribers by a “video service supplier”
including but not limited to basic services, premium services, audio
services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on demand,
origination programming, or any other similar services, regardless
of the content of such video programming, or the technology used to
deliver such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which
such services are calculated or billed.

(v)	. “Video Services” means “video programming” and any
and all services related to the providing, recording, delivering, use or
enjoyment of “video programming” (including origination programming
and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video)
using one or more channels by a “video service supplier”, regardless
of the technology used to deliver, store or provide such services,
and regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are
calculated or billed, and includes ancillary video services, data
services, “telecommunication services" or interactive communication
services that are functionally integrated with “video services”.

(w)	. “Video Service Supplier” means any person, company,
or service which provides or sells one or more channels of video

programming, or provides or sells the capability to receive one or more
channels of video programming, including any communications that
are ancillary, necessary or common to the provision, use or enjoyment
of the video programming, to or from a business or residential address
in the City, where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in
dues or rental charges for that service, whether or not public rights-
of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or
communications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not
limited to, multichannel video programming distributors [as defined in
47 U.S.C.A. Section 522(13)]; open video systems (OVS) suppliers;
suppliers of cable television, master antenna television, satellite master
antenna television and multichannel multipoint distribution services
(MMDS); video services using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-
Video, which provide, among other things, broadcasting and video on
demand), direct broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits
taxation of its video services, now or in the future; and other suppliers
of video services (including two-way communications), whatever their
technology.

(x)	. “VoIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol)” means the digital
process of making and receiving real-time voice transmissions over
any Internet Protocol network.

(y)	. “800 Service” means a “telecommunications service” that
allows a caller to dial a toll-free number without incurring a charge for
the call.The service is typically marketed under the name “800”, “855”,
“866”, “877”, and “888" toll-free calling, and any subsequent numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

(z)	. “900 Service" means an inbound toll “telecommunications
service” purchased by a subscriber that allows the subscriber’s
customers to call in to the subscriber's prerecorded announcement or
live service. “900 service” does not include the charge for: collection
services provided by the seller of the “telecommunications services”
to the subscriber, or services or products sold by the subscriber to
the subscriber’s customer. The service is typically marketed under the
name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers designated by the
Federal Communications Commission.

3.13.030 Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions.

(a)	. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing
a tax upon any person or service when the imposition of such tax
upon such person or service would be in violation of a federal or state
statute, the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the
State.

(b)	. Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this
Chapter pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall file an application
with the Tax Administrator for an exemption; provided, however, this
requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a state or federal
agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized name for such
service. Said application shall be made upon a form approved by the
Tax Administrator and shall state those facts, declared under penalty of
perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall include
the names of all communication service suppliers serving that service
user. If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service user
shall give the Tax Administrator timely written notice of any change
in communication service suppliers so that the Tax Administrator can
properly notify the new communication service supplier of the service
user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this
section shall not be entitled to a refund of a communication users' tax
collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator from such service user
as a result of such noncompliance.

Solano 48/27

The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to
Section 3.13.150 of this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax
Administrator and appeal to the City Manager pursuant to Section

3.13.150	of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

(c). The City Council may, by resolution, establish one or more
classes of persons or one or more classes of utility service otherwise
subject to payment of a tax imposed by this chapter and provide that
such classes of persons or service shall be exempt, in whole or in part
from such tax for a specified period of time.

3.13.040 Communication Users’Tax.

(a)	. There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the
City using communication services. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of seven and three-tenths percent (7.3%) of the
charges made for such services and shall be collected from the service
user by the communication services supplier or its billing agent. There
is a rebuttable presumption that communication services, which are
billed to a billing or service address in the City, are used, in whole or
in part, within the City’s boundaries, and such services are subject to
taxation under this Chapter. There is also a rebuttable presumption
that prepaid telecommunication services sold within the city are used,
in whole or in part, within the City and are therefore subject to taxation
under this Chapter. If the billing address of the service user is different
from the service address, the service address of the service user shall
be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this section, the
term “charges" shall include the value of any other services, credits,
property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the communication services.

(b)	. “Mobile Telecommunications Service" shall be sourced
in accordance with the sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C, Section 124). The Tax
Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this
Chapter, sourcing rulesforthetaxation of othercommunication services,
including but not limited to post-paid communication services, prepaid
communication services, VoIP and private communication services,
provided that such rules are based upon custom and common practice
that further administrative efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional
taxation (e.g., Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement).

(c)	. The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to
communication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this Chapter, an administrative ruling identifying those
communication services, or charges therefor, that are subject to or not
subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(d)	. As used in this section, the term “telecommunication
services” shall include, but is not limited to, charges for: connection,
reconnection, termination, movement, or change of telecommunication
services; late payment fees; detailed billing; central office and
custom calling features (including but not limited to call waiting, call
forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling); voice mail
and other messaging services; directory assistance; access and line
charges; universal service charges; regulatory fees and surcharges,
and other state and federal cost recovery fees and surcharges;
local number portability charges; and text and instant messaging.
“Telecommunication services” shall not include digital downloads
that are not “ancillary telecommunication services”, such as music,
ringtones, games, and similar digital products.

(e)	. Charges for communication services (video) shall include,

but are not limited to, charges for the following:

(1)	regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees and access
fees (PEG);

(2)	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision
and receipt of video services;

(3)	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return
check fees;

(4)	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

(5)	video programming and video services;

(6)	ancillary video services (e.g., electronic program guide
services, recording functions, search functions, or other
interactive services or communications that are ancillary,
necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of video
services);

(7)	equipment leases (e.g., remote, recording or search
devices, converters, remote devices); and,

(8)	service calls, service protection plans, name changes,
changes of services, and special services.

(f)	. To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of
communication services subject to tax under this section, any service
user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the service user
has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such
communication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax
imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in
such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of credit shall
not exceed the tax owed to the City under this section.

(g)	. The tax on communication services imposed by this
section shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier.
In the case of video service, the service user shall be deemed to be
the purchaser of the bulk video service (e.g., an apartment owner),
unless such service is resold to individual users, in which case the
service user shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video service. The
amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

3.13.050 Bundling Taxable Items with Non-Taxable
Items.

If any non-taxable charges are combined with and not separately
stated from taxable service charges on the customer bill or invoice of
a service supplier, the combined charge is subject to tax unless the
service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable standards,
the portions of the combined charge that are non-taxable and taxable
through the service supplier’s books and records kept in the regular
course of business, and in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax
purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
valuation and apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges. If
the service supplier offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable
services, and the charges are separately stated, then for taxation
purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services
shall be based on its books and records kept in the regular course
of business and in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The
service supplier has the burden of proving the proper valuation of the
taxable and non-taxable services.

mu

4 8/28

Solano 48 / 28

3.13.060 Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and
remit a tax under this Chapter, “substantial nexus" and “minimum
contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition,
collection and/or remittance of the communication users’ tax to the
fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as it may change
from time to time by judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment.
Any communication service (including VoIP) used by a person with a
service address in the City, which service is capable of terminating
a call to another person on the general telephone network, shall be
subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum
contacts” exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty
to collect and remit a tax, under this Chapter. A service supplier shall
be deemed to have sufficient activity in the City for tax collection and
remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any
of the following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an
agent or subsidiary, a place of business of any nature; solicits business
in the City by employees, independent contractors, resellers, agents
or other representatives; solicits business in the City on a continuous,
regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that
is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter with the City or distributed
from a location with the City; or advertises in newspapers or other
periodicals printed and published within the City or through materials
distributed in the City by means other than the United States mail; or
if there are activities performed in the City on behalf of the service
supplier that are significantly associated with the service supplier’s
ability to establish and maintain a market in the City for the provision of
communication services that are subject to a tax under this Chapter.

3.13.070 Duty to Collect-Procedures.

(a)	. Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service
suppliers to collect and remit the taxes imposed by the provisions of
this Chapter shall be performed as follows:

(1)	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as
practicable at the same time as, and along with, the collection of
the charges made in accordance with the regular billing practice
of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by a service user
to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge
and tax which was accrued for the billing period, a proportionate
share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have
been paid. In those cases where a service user has notified
the service supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed on said
charges, Section 3.13.110 shall apply.

(2)	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a
service user shall commence with the beginning of the first
regular billing period applicable to the service user where all
charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to
the provisions of this Chapter. Where a service user receives
more than one billing, one or more being for different periods
than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each
billing period.

(b)	. Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this
Chapter to remit a tax shall file a return to the Tax Administrator,
on forms approved by the Tax Administrator, on or before the due
date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included with the
return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is
authorized to require such additional information as he or she deems
necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and
remitted in accordance with this Chapter. Returns are due immediately

upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and
Tax Code Section 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall
maintain such filing returns as confidential information that is exempt
from the disclosure provisions of the Public Records Act.

3.13.080 Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers.

(a)	. Taxes collected from a service user are delinquent if not
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should
the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return must
be received by the Tax Administrator on the first regular working day
following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit, including
electronic fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically
exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by a service
supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection shall
be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due
date, and the transfer settles into the City’s account on the following
business day.

(b) .	If the person required to collect and/or remit the
communication users’ tax fails to collect the tax (by failing to properly
assess the tax on one or more services or charges on the customer’s
billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before the due date,
the Tax Administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies or
deficiencies at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is
delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and interest at the rate of and
75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

(c)	. The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose
additional penalties upon persons required to collect and remit taxes
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter for fraud or gross negligence
in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the
amount of the tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as
recomputed by the Tax Administrator.

(d)	. For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and
such interest that is accrued under the provisions of this section shall
become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

(e)	. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may,
in his or her discretion, modify the due dates of this Chapter to be
consistent with any uniform standards or procedures that are mutually
agreed upon by other public agencies imposing a utility users tax, or
otherwise legally established, to create a central payment location or
mechanism.

3.13.090 Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of
this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the
City. Any such tax collected from a service user which has not been
remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the
City by the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be
a debt of the service user. Any person owing money to the City under
the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the
name of the City for the recovery of such amount, including penalties
and interest as provided for in this Chapter, along with any collection
costs incurred by the City as a result of the person’s noncompliance
with this Chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys
fees. Any tax required to be collected by a service supplier or owed by
a service user is an unsecured priority excise tax obligation under 11
U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8)(C). Service suppliers who seek to collect
charges for service in bankruptcy proceedings shall also include in any

liiini in Mi iKi I

4 8/29

Solano 48 / 29

such claim the amount of taxes due the City for those services, unless
the Tax Administrator determines that such duty is in conflict with any
federal or state law, rule, or regulation or that such action would be
administratively impractical.

3.13.100 Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax
Application Errors.

(a)	. TheTaxAdministratorshallmakeadeficiencydetermination
if he or she determines that any person required to pay or collect
taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter has failed to pay,
collect, and/or remit the proper amount of tax by improperly or failing
to apply the tax to one or more taxable services or charges. Nothing
herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings
under this Section 3.13.100 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator,
the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(b)	. The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency
determination to the person required to pay or remit the tax, which
notice shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes owed, plus interest
at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax
should have been received by the City. Within fourteen (14) calendar
days after the date of service of such notice, the person may request
in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the matter.

(c)	. If the person fails to request a hearing within the prescribed
time period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall become
a final assessment, and shall immediately be due and owing to the
City. If the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall
cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be scheduled
within thirty (30) days after receipt of the written request for hearing.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax
Administrator to such person at least ten (10) calendar days prior
to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person to
produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate
the records requested to be produced.

(d)	. At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator
shall hear all relevant testimony and evidence, including that of any
other interested parties. At the discretion of the Tax Administrator,
the hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of
allowing the presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable
time following the conclusion of the hearing, the Tax Administrator
shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessment), thereafter, by
confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination,
and shall mail a copy of such final assessment to person owing the
tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant
to Section 3.13.150 of this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax
Administrator and appeal to the City Manager pursuant to Section

3.13.150	of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

(e)	. Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent
if not received by the Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th)
day following the date of receipt of the notice of final assessment.
The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on the
total amount of the assessment, along with interest at the rate
of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof,
on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date of
delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations regarding
a claim by the City seeking payment of a tax assessed under this
Chapter shall commence from the date of delinquency as provided in
this subsection (e).

(f). All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail,
postage prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar
day following the date of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

3.13.110 Administrative Remedy - Non-Paying Service Users.

(a)	. Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service
user has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by the
service user from the amounts remitted to a person required to collect
the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest
of the City, he or she may relieve such person of the obligation to
collect the taxes due under this Chapter from certain named service
users for specific billing periods. To the extent the service user has
failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more
billing periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation
to collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide the City with
the names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of
taxes owed under the provisions of this Chapter. Nothing herein shall
require that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this
Section 3.13.110 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of
collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(b)	. In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a
delinquency penalty at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax
that is owed, and shall pay interest at the rate of 75/1 OOths (0.75%)
percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.

(c)	. The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service
user that the Tax Administrator has assumed the responsibility to
collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment
of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice shall be
served on the service user by personal delivery or by deposit of the
notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
service user at the address to which billing was made by the person
required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have a change
of address, to his or her last known address.

(d)	. If the service user fails to remit the tax to theTax Administrator
within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice upon
him or her, the Tax Administrator may impose an additional penalty of
fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the total tax that is owed.

3.13.120 Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax
Administrator.

(a)	. The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and
is hereby directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this
Chapter.

(b)	. The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules
and regulations consistent with provisions of this Chapter for the
purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and enforcing the
payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. The
administrative ruling shall not impose a new tax, revise an existing
tax methodology as stated in this Section, or increase an existing
tax, except as allowed by California Government Code Section
53750(h)(2). A copy of such administrative rules and regulations
shall be on file in the Tax Administrator’s office. To the extent that
the Tax Administrator determines that the tax imposed under this
Chapter shall not be collected in full for any period of time from any
particular service supplier or service user, that determination shall be
considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator’s discretion to settle
disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing methodology for
purposes of Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The Tax

Solano 48 / 30

4 8/30

Administrator is not authorized to amend the City’s methodology for
purposes of Government Code Section 53750 and the City does not
waive or abrogate its ability to impose the communication users’ tax in
full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or entering into
agreements.

(c)	. Upon a proper showing of good cause, theTax Administrator
may make administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions,
to vary from the strict requirements of this Chapter and thereby: (1)
conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so long
as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance
with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter; or, (2) to avoid a
hardship where the administrative costs of collection and remittance
greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall
be on file in the Tax Administrator’s office, and are voidable by the Tax
Administrator or the City at any time.

(d)	. The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure
proper compliance with the requirements of this Chapter, of any person
required to collect and/or remit a tax pursuant to this Chapter. The
Tax Administrator shall notify said person of the initiation of an audit
in writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct,
the audit period of review shall not exceed a period of three (3)
years next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by said
person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the
Tax Administrator may make a deficiency determination pursuant to
Section 3.13.100 of this Chapter for all taxes (and applicable penalties
and interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced by information provided
by such person to the Tax Administrator. If said person is unable or
unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax Administrator to
verify compliance with this Chapter, theTax Administrator is authorized
to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable
estimate shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

(e)	. Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good
cause, the Tax Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement
required pursuant to this Chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-
five (45) days, provided that the time for filing the required statement
has not already passed when the request is received. No penalty for
delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such extension. Interest
shall accrue during said extension at the rate of 75/1 OOths (0.75%)
percent per month, prorated for any portion thereof.

(f)	. The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any
person who asserts a right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax
imposed by this Chapter.

(g)	. Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapterto the contrary,
the Tax Administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon
a person required to collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax
imposed by this Chapter or require prospective application of the tax,
if the non-collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether the
non-collection was in good faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into
consideration industry practice or other precedence.

3.13.130 Records.

(a). It shall be the duty of every person required to collect
and/or remit to the City any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and
preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years, all records as may be
necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have
been liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator,
which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at a
reasonable time.

(b)	. The City may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a
person to deliver, to theTax Administrator, copies of all records deemed
necessary by the Tax Administrator to establish compliance with this
Chapter, including the delivery of records in a common electronic format
on readily available media if such records are kept electronically by the
person in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative
to delivering the subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or
before the due date provided in the administrative subpoena, such
person may provide access to such records outside the City on or
before the due date, provided that such person shall reimburse the
City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect
those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other similar
expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those
persons designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

(c)	. The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-
disclosure agreement approved by the City Attorney to protect the
confidentiality of customer information pursuant to California Revenue
and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.

(d)	. If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator
to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide
to the Tax Administrator the name, address and telephone number of
each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the
service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and,
ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery
of, any information or records in the possession of such billing agent
or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is
necessary to verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/
or remittance of such tax to the City.

(e)	. If any person subject to record-keeping under this section
unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator access to such records,
or fails to produce the information requested in an administrative
subpoena within the time specified, then the Tax Administrator may
impose a penalty of $500 on such person for each day following: i) the
initial date that the person refuses to provide such access; or, ii) the
due date for production of records as set forth in the administrative
subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty
imposed under this Chapter.

3.13.140 Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
Tax Administrator under this Chapter from a person or service supplier,
it may be refunded as provided in this section as follows:

(a)	. Written Claim for Refund.The Tax Administrator may refund
any tax that has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator
under this Chapter from a person or service supplier, provided that
no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor, or administrator
has submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one year
of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such
claim must clearly establish claimant’s right to the refund by written
records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the
filing of a claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each
member of the class has submitted a written claim under penalty of
perjury as provided by this subsection.

(b)	. Compliance with Claims Act. The filing of a written claim
pursuant to Government Code Section 935 is a prerequisite to any suit

I,HUM ill .I I
4 8/31

Solano 48 / 31

thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to this section
shall be subject to the provisions of Government Code Sections 945.6
and 946. The Tax Administrator, or the City Council where the claim is
in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000), shall act upon the refund
claim within the time period set forth in Government Code Section 912.4.
If the Tax Administrator/City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund
claim within the time prescribed by Government Section 912.4, the
claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the City Council on the
last day of the period within which the City Council was required to act
upon the claim as provided in Government Code Section 912.4. The Tax
Administrator shall give notice of the action in a form which substantially
complies with that set forth in Government Code Section 913.

(c). Refunds to Service Suppliers. Notwithstanding the notice
provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the Tax Administrator
may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to a service
supplier, who has collected and remitted any amount of tax in excess
of the amount of tax imposed by this Chapter, to claim credit for such
overpayment against the amount of tax which is due the City upon a
subsequent monthly return(s) to the Tax Administrator, provided that:

i)	such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from
the date of overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax; ii) the
Tax Administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis and amount
of such credit has been reasonably established; and, iii) in the case
of an overpayment by a service user to the service supplier that has
been remitted to the City, the Tax Administrator has received proof,
to his or her satisfaction, that the overpayment has been refunded
by the service supplier to the service user in an amount equal to the
requested credit.

3.13.150	Appeals.

(a)	. The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other
than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.13.140 of
this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative
ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any person aggrieved by any decision
(other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section
3.13.140 of this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, shall be required to
comply with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with
this section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government
Code Section 935(b)]. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim
or action on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

(b)	. If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than
a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.13.140 of this
Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative
ruling of the Tax Administrator; he or she may appeal to the City
Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen
(14) days of the date of the decision, deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator which
aggrieved the service user or service supplier.

(c)	. The matter shall b,e scheduled for hearing before an
independent hearing officer selected by the City Manager, no more
than thirty (30) days from the receipt of the appeal. The appellant
shall be served with notice of the time and place of the hearing, as
well as any relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior to
the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to time upon
mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the
Tax Administrator, and any other interested person may present such
relevant evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination
from which the appeal is taken.

(d)	. Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review
of the City’s files, the hearing officer shall issue a written notice and
order upholding, modifying or reversing the determination from which
the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within fourteen (14) days
after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the
decision. The notice shall specify that the decision is final and that any
petition for judicial review shall be filed within ninety (90) days from
the date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1094.6.

(e)	. All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail,
postage prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar
day following the date of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

3.13.160 No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process
shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this
City or against any officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected and/or remitted.

3.13.170 Notice of changes to ordinance.

If a tax under this Chapter is added repealed, increased, reduced, or
the tax base is changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice
requirements of California Public Utilities Code Section 799.

3.13.180 Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or
federal statute in this Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be
amended from time to time, provided that such reference to a statute
herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or to
any subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal
agency or court of law with the duty to interpret such law, to the extent
that such amendment or change of interpretation would require voter
approval under California law, or to the extent that such change would
result in a tax decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of a
communication service, or charge therefor, from taxation). Only to the
extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease
would result, the prior version of the statute (or interpretation) shall
remain applicable; for any application or situation that would not
require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of
the amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the
maximum possible extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any
tax imposed under this Chapter is expanded or limited as a result of
changes in state or federal law, no amendment or modification of this
Chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the
tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization
up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this Chapter.

3.13.190 Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption,
Remittance, and Expenditure.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Chapter
have been properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in
accordance with this Chapter, and properly expended according to
applicable municipal law. The annual verification shall be performed
by a qualified independent third party and the review shall employ
reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance, including
the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be required of
tax remitters where the cost of the verification may exceed the tax
revenues to be reviewed.

Solano 48 / 32

4 8/32

3.13.200 Interaction with Prior Tax

(a)	. Satisfaction of Tax Obligation by Service Users. Any
person who pays the tax levied pursuant to Section 3.13.040 of this
Chapter with respect to any charge for a communication service shall
be deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pay the tax levied
pursuant to Sections 3.12.020 and 3.12.080 of this Code with respect
to that charge. Likewise, prior to May 1, 2010, any person who pays
the tax levied pursuant to Sections 3.12.020 and 3.12.080 of this Code
with respect to any charge for a service subject to taxation pursuant
to this Chapter shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation
to pay the tax levied pursuant to Section 3.13.040 of this Chapter with
respect to that charge. The intent of this paragraph is to prevent the
imposition of multiple taxes upon a single utility charge during the
transition period from the prior telephone users tax and cable television
users tax to the new communication users’tax (which transition period
ends May 1, 2010) and to permit communications service providers,
during that transition period, to satisfy their collection obligations by
collecting either tax.

(b)	. Collection of Tax by Service Providers. Service providers
shall begin to collect the tax imposed by this Chapter as soon as
feasible after the effective date of the Chapter, but in no event later
than permitted by Section 799 of the California Public Utilities Code.

(c)	. Judicial Determinations. In the event that a final court order
should determine that the election enacting this Chapter 3-13 is invalid
for whatever reason, or that any tax imposed under this Chapter 3-13
is invalid in whole or in part, then the taxes imposed under Sections

3.12.020	and 3.12.080 (unless repealed) shall automatically continue
to apply with respect to any service for which the tax levied pursuant
to this Chapter has been determined to be invalid. Such automatic
continuation shall be effective beginning as of the first date of service
(or billing date) for which the tax imposed by this Chapter is invalid.
However, in the event of an invalidation, any tax (other than a tax that
is ordered refunded by the court or is otherwise refunded by the City)
paid by a person with respect to a service and calculated pursuant to
this Chapter shall be deemed to satisfy the tax imposed under Sections

3.12.020	and 3.12.080 on that service, so long as the tax is paid with
respect to a service provided no later than six months subsequent to
the date on which the final court order is published.”

SECTION 2. Effective Date. This chapter, if approved by the
electorate of the City of Vallejo at the Municipal Election of November
3, 2009, shall become effective immediately upon the declaration of
the results of that election by the City Council of the City of Vallejo.

SECTION 3. Amendment or Repeal. Chapter 3.13 of the Vallejo
Municipal Code may be repealed or amended by the City Council
without a vote of the people. However, as required by Article XIIIC of the
California Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment
provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this
Ordinance. The People of the City of Vallejo affirm that the following
actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

(1) The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no
higher than that set by this Ordinance, if the City Council has
acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

2)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology
of the tax, or any definition applicable to the tax, so long as
such interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some
prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the
language of this Ordinance;

3)	The establishment of a class of persons that is exempt
or excepted from the tax or the discontinuation of any such
exemption or exception (other than the discontinuation of an
exemption or exception specifically set forth in this Ordinance);
and

4)	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if
the City had, for some period of time, failed to collect the tax.

SECTION 4. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held
to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain
in full force and effect. The People hereby declare that they would
have adopted each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this
Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 5. Ratification of Prior Tax. The People of the City of
Vallejo hereby ratify and approve Chapter 3.12 of the Vallejo Municipal
Code as it existed prior to the effective date of this Ordinance, and the
past collection of the Telephone Users Tax and the Video Users Tax
thereunder.

SECTION 6. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to
attest to the adoption of this Ordinance by the voters of the City by
signing where indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED,
APPROVED and ADOPTED by the people of the City of Vallejo,
California voting on the 3rd day of November, 2009

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this __ day of
_______________________,	2009.

Isl Osby Davis, Mayor
City of Vallejo, California

ATTEST:_____________________________________

Isl Mary Ellsworth, City Clerk
City of Vallejo, California

Solano 48/33