City of Dinuba
Measure M

BALLOT TEXT

Dinuba’s UUT Modernization/Protect Vital City Services Measure

To maintain Dinuba services by protecting local funds to retain police officers,
firefighters/paramedics, gang/drug prevention programs; maintain parks, after-school
programs, graffiti removal, senior programs, and other services, shall Dinuba modernize
and continue collecting its existing utility user’s tax, ensuring equal treatment of
taxpayers, independent audits, budget reviews, low-income senior exemptions, with all
funds staying locally in Dinuba and no increase in tax rate?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE M

Measure M is proposed by the Dinuba City Council to continue its existing Utility Users
Tax on the November 3, 2009, Election Ballot for voter consideration. The utility users’
tax is a general tax required to be used to support local City of Dinuba services.

If approved by more than fifty percent (50%) of the voters voting in the election. Measure
M would authorize the City of Dinuba to continue its existing Utility Users’ Tax,
eliminate the sunset provision such that the tax would stay at seven percent (7%) and
ratify the existing utility users tax.

From 1993 to 2008 the State has taken over $2.5 million dollars from the City. This year
and next year they are planning to take an additional $2.6 million dollars.

Our existing UUT funds provide funding of essential city services for police, fire and
ambulance services, 9-1-1 services, after-school programs for our youth and support to
seniors. A portion of the UUT (3%) is scheduled to sunset in June of 2010. The
remaining portion (4%) is subject to legal challenge under the provisions of proposition
218 enacted in 1998.

Measure M would continue a protected revenue source to support and maintain Dinuba
city services without increasing tax levels above their current amount.

Revenues from Measure M are legally required to be used in Dinuba for essential city
services and cannot be taken by the State of California.

The tax includes a requirement for an annual financial audit performed by a qualified,
independent third party. The results of these audits would be available to the public.

Measure M also provides for modernization of the language of the code section to collect
Utility Users Taxes due to advances in modern technology in the telephone industry
including but not limited to wireless and cellular technologies.

Dated: August 6, 2009
s/ Daniel T. McCloskey
City Attorney
City of Dinuba

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

The Dinuba City Council passed a utility tax in the years 1991 and 1992 that equals 7%.
This tax has been paid on all utilities for the past 20 years, this utility tax was only
supposed to be a temporary tax.

The residents of Dinuba are already paying one of the highest sales tax in our state. These
two taxes place an extra burden on the residents of Dinuba.

We as concerned citizens do not want to impose an increase in hardship on the city but
our question is when is enough tax money enough! We say No More Taxes.

s/ Ruth E. Padilla
s/ Dolores M. Cervantes
s/ Alex Mireles
s/ Donna Mireles
s/ Ramiro Robert Cervantes

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE M

Did you know that Sacramento politicians just took over $2.5 million from Dinuba for
their own budget mess?

Yes on M is Dinuba’s LOCAL solution to maintaining vital city services such a Police,
Fire, Ambulance, 9-1-1 Services, after-school programs and support for seniors with NO
INCREASE in tax rates!

We must protect our money from Sacramento - YES on M ensures Dinuba continues to
have the money it needs to keep you safe!

Measure M DOESN’T increase tax rates!

Measure M simply continues Dinuba’s existing UUT that residents have already been
paying for two decades.

Did you know that 90% of all calls to our fire department are medical emergencies?

Without YES on M. Dinuba must cut four firefighter/paramedics - 20% of our force.

YES on M ensures firefighters/paramedics can respond quickly to 9-1-1 emergency
calls - saving lives.

Without Measure M. Dinuba must cut ten police officers, nearly 33% of frontline
responders and after-school and gang prevention programs serving 200 students every
day.

We must protect our kids. YES on M keeps police officers and after-school programs
that keep our youth away from gangs/drugs.

Measure M includes tough fiscal accountability safeguards, including annual audits,
public expenditure reviews and exemptions for low-income seniors ensuring money
CANNOT be taken by Sacramento.

That is why local firefighters, police officers, faith leaders, the Dinuba Chamber of
Commerce, the entire Dinuba City Council and hundreds of local citizens will Vote
YES on M.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE M

There is nothing fair about this tax. This tax was imposed by the city council in 1991 and
1992 as a temporary tax. Three percent of this tax was set to expire in 2010 and would
have provided some tax relief. Now, voters are being asked to approve a full 7% tax on
all utilities: electric, water, gas, cell phones, telephones and all current technologies of the
communication industry. This constitutes an increase in tax by the very fact that the cost
of utilities has risen over the past several years. It places a huge tax burden on the
residents within Dinuba city limits. In 2005, the voters of Dinuba passed a three-quarter
sales tax for police, fire, seniors and other programs making our sales tax one of
the highest in the state. The city has been given a grant of $563,000 from the Federal
Recovery Act for police and safety. Just when is it enough money? We have paid this
temporary tax for eighteen years! It is time for it to end!