Full Text

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SOUTH SAN
FRANCISCO AMENDING CHAPTER 4.20 OF THE SOUTH SAN
FRANCISCO MUNICIPAL CODE CONCERNING THE TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX

The People of the City of South San Francisco do hereby ordain as
follows:

SECTION 1. Chapter 4.20 of the South San Francisco Municipal
Code is hereby amended to read as follows: (with text in
strikeout indicating deletion and double-underlined text
indicating addition):

Section 4.20.020(b) Amended: “‘Occupancy’ means the use or possession,
or the right to the use or possession, of any room or rooms. any_or portion
thereofi_or any other space, including for parking of vehicles, in or at any
hotel for dwelling, lodging^ or sleep ing^or related purposes.”

Section 4.20.020(e) Amended: “‘Rent’ means the consideration charged,
whether or not received, for the occupancy of space in a hotel, including
for parking of vehicles, valued in money, whether to be received in money,
goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property
and services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom
whatsoever. Whenever a third party collects the consideration charged for
occupancy on behalf of an operator, or charges a fee for arranging occupancy
on behalf of an operator but does not itself collect the consideration charged,
the rent shall be the total amount represented to the transient by the third
party as the consideration charged for the occupancy.”

Section 4.20.030 Amended: “Tax Imposed. For the privilege of occupancy
in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a general tax in
the amount of eigfatnine percent of the rent charged by the operator and
a special tax of one percent. The total general and special taxes imposed
pursuant to this chapter shall equal mneten percent of the rent charged by
the operator. If a room is rented by a firm, corporation, partnership, joint
venture or any other organization on a long term basis, the tax imposed by
this section shall fall upon and be borne by each individual who occupies
or has the right to occupy the room for a period of thirty consecutive days
or less. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city, which
is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The transient
shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If
the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be
paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s
ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. The operator shall be liable for any
amount of tax that he or she fails to collect or remit; and must remit to
the City the entire amount of tax due and collected. If for any reason the
tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax administrator may
require that such tax shall be paid directly to the tax administrator.”

Section 4.20.050 Amended: “Operator’s Duties. Each operator shall
collect the tax imposed by this chapter to the same extent and at the same
time as the rent is collected from every transient. If a third party collects

the rent from the transient on behalf of the operator, or otherwise arranges
occupancy on behalf of an operator, the operator shall ensure that the tax
is levied on the rent, and shall obtain from the third party anv tax collected.
The operator shall remit to the City the total amount of tax owed based
on the renU_The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount
of the rent charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment
from the operator. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any
manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will
be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to
the rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded except in the manner
hereinafter provided. ”

Section 4.20.150 Added:	“Amendment	of	this	Chapter.	Without

subsequent voter approval, the City Council may, as it deems appropriate
from time to time, amend this Chapter, including but not limited to changes
to ensure that the tax authorized herein is imposed and collected on the
total rent charged to the transient for the privilege of occupying the room,
regardless of whether that amount is represented by an operator or third
party, provided that no such amendment may increase the rate of tax or
impose tax on any exempt transients unless the amendment has been
submitted to and approved by the electorate in accordance with State law.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, the remainder of this ordinance, including the
application of such part or provision to other persons
or circumstances shall not be affected thereby and shall
continue in full force and effect. To this end, provisions
of this ordinance are severable. The People of the City
of South San Francisco hereby declare that it would have
passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause, or phrase hereof irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases be held
unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable.

SECTION 3. Election Required for Tax to be Effective. The tax
proposed by this ordinance shall not become effective
until approved by a majority the voters voting on the issue
at the November 3, 2009 election.

SECTION 4. Effective Date of Tax. If this ordinance is approved by a
majority of the voters voting on the issue at the November
3, 2009 election, pursuant to Elections Code Section
9217, this ordinance shall be considered adopted on that
date and the tax shall become effective January 1, 2010,
or no sooner than 10 days after the City Council certifies
the results of the election, whichever occurs later.

SECTION 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published once,
with the names of those City Councilmembers voting for
or against it, in the San Mateo County Times, a newspaper
of general circulation in the City of South San Francisco,
in accordance with Government Code Section 36933.