

r .

; Vi-'.

a

•4

■ a i5:j-	■,	/*•>	/.*	.;	•	'v-. /•;

CITY OF HAYWARD MEASURE A



A

YES-.

NO

To prevent severe cuts to Hayward
city services including, maintain-
ing firefighters, paramedics* fire
stations, and neighborhood police patrols;
protecting emergency response times; \
preserving youth/anti-gang programs, disaster pre-
paredness, and job/economic development services;
shall the City of Hayward adopt an Ordinance enacting
a Utility Users Tax of 5.5% on gas, electricity, video
^nd telecommunications services, for 10 years only,
with exemptions available for low-income/lifeline
users; and all money dedicated to preserving Hayward
city services? ,	\V,	•	•	,	•	:



;!\i! ..	'	jl.’	'	:	-	'

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure
. A. If you desire a copy of the Ordinance, please contact
the City Clerk's Office at 777 B Street, Hayward, CA
94541, telephone number 510-583-4400, and a copy will
be sent to you at no charge. Free copies of the Ordinance
are available at the City Clerk’s office or via email to
CityClerk@hayward-ca.gov. v	(

;v,-; s/MICHAELS. LAWSON, City Attorney ;	"	,

City of Hayward	‘ . ‘	■	.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE A ;

The Hayward City Council has placed a measure on the
May 19, 2009, ballot, asking voters to approve a Utility
Users Tax Ordinance. If passed by a simple majority of the
voters voting on the measure, the Ordinance would
impose a five and one-half percent (5.5%) utility users tax
on telecommunication services (including landline tele-
phone and cellphone services), video services (including
cable television), electricity and gas consumption. Water
consumption and sewer services would not be taxed under
the Ordinance. The tax would automatically expire on
June 30, 2019. The tax could only be extended with an
additional vote of the people.

In general, utility companies would collect the tax from
consumers as part of their regular utility bills and would
remit the taxes to the City. Qualifying low-income resi-
dents and Lifeline program participants would be exempt
from the tax, upon application and approval by the Tax
Administrator. The definition of each utility service and a
description of how the tax is calculated are more particu-
larly described in the Ordinance.

The utility users tax is a general tax intended to alleviate
the City’s ongoing general operating budget deficit. Rev-
enue generated by the tax would be deposited in the City’s
General Fund and used to support essential public ser-
vices, including police, fire and paramedic services; the
operation of youth/anti-gang. disaster preparedness and
economic development programs; street repairs and main-
tenance; graffiti removal; code enforcement and library
programs, and other general governmental purposes. The
Ordinance includes a requirement for an annual financial
audit of tax collection and expenditures to be performed
by a qualified, independent third party. The results of the
annual audits would be available to the public. /

A "‘Yes” vote an Measure A means the voter is in favor of
authorizing the City to collect a utility users tax for ten
years. A “No” vote on Measure A means the voter is not in
favor of the City collecting a utility users tax.



‘7’ V.

I

ill

i!

>: 1

It'

i p

i if i

i if:

I 1

■M •

!|

fl;

HI

Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed law are the opinions of the authors

r ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Hayward residents, seniors, parents, firefighters, police,
business people and community leaders urge you to
VOTE YES on Measure A—to protect our community
from devastating cuts that will impact Hayward’s quality
: of life for years to come.	■

:	Our Hayward community faces a serious budget crisis.

; The City has done everything possible to control opera-
tional costs, but as the economy has fallen deeper into
recession, city revenues have declined drastically. The
City of Hayward has no control over these national trends,
yet it must address them to maintain city services.

City leaders have already cut $7 million from this year’s
. budget by eliminating 50 full-time positions, lowering
employee compensation, delaying projects, reducing ser-
vices and implementing strict cost controls. Now, there is
nothing left to cut except basic services including public
- safety.	-; '	-	•	•	-	•

Two choices remain: generate additional revenue or con-
tinue making deep cuts to city services.	,

Measure A will PREVENT extreme city services cuts.

Measure A will:	.	£ '

•	Retain firefighters and paramedic services

•	Continue current police staffing levels and neigh-
borhood patrols	:

y: Keep Hayward fire stations open-protecting emer-
; gency response times
o Provide youth programs that keep kids away from
•v - ; crime, gangs and drugs '	-

•	Maintain disaster preparedness efforts

•	Keep current library hours	.	.

® Preserve job/economic development services that
help stimulate the local economy
100% of Measure A funds will stay in Hayward to pro-
vide essential city services—including public safety, so
emergency responders ^firefighters, paramedics and
police) are available to help when you need them. v ,
Measure A will last ten years only—changes cannot be
made without a vote of the people.

Hayward renters, homeowners and businesses will all pay
their fair share because they will all pay into Measure A.
(Exemptions will be available for low income/lifeline
users.) •	‘	-	’	■	V. _	.	-y.v	■	-•	:

Protect	your investment	in Hayward.	(

■fj Please—VOTE YES on A.







HYM-2

s/Charles C. Plummer	.

Sheriff Emeritus, Retired Hayward Police Chief,
Hayward Homeowner
s/Michael Sweeney :

Mayor, City of Hayward; 50+ year Hayward resident
s/Mimi Bauer	•	•

President, Fairway Park Neighborhood Association
s/Elisa Marquez '	’	*	'	-	r	-:

Parent, Hayward Planning Commissioner / -	:	/

s/ClaudiaG. Borboa
Mobile Home Owner, Neighborhood Alert Block Captain

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A WAS
SUBMITTED.





j " - ' /V *. » - ! * ’*

■A 'V

J&K.





:"/■ • 1 , , ......................................................... . . , ■ .

•'•4., <;+•:	■:	Mi-	>.■>*■	w-	*	-.^4)	“

':V-

v- . 4U;.