MEASURE

FULL TEXT OF SALES TAX ORDINANCE SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF A
MAJORITY OF THE QUALIFIED VOTERS A T THE MARCH 5, 2009 ELECTION

ORDINANCE NO. 08-27

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLOVIS
AMENDING THE CLOVIS MUNICIPAL CODE TO ENACT A ONE
CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX (SALES TAX) FOR TEN YEARS
AND THREE QUARTERS OF A CENT THEREAFTER FOR
RESTORATION AND PROTECTION OF ESSENTIAL CITY SERVICES
TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLOVIS DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. FINDINGS. The City Council finds and determines as follows:

A.	During the past 15 years the City has repeatedly experienced a loss of general tax
revenues to meet current operations and capital investment which has resulted in deferred
spending on many areas of essential services.

B.	The General Fund revenue primarily flows from collection of property, sales and
other general taxes, vehicle license fees and gas tax. Since 1990, there has been a steady
erosion of these tax revenues by reallocation imposed by the State Legislature.

C.	This steady erosion of local tax revenues has not only impacted cities but has also
impacted counties. In response, counties have requested additional tax revenue from
cities when annexation of land occurs to fund many of the State mandated services that
counties are obligated to provide on behalf of the State.

D.	During the current and previous two budget cycles the City has found it necessary
to further reduce operational spending and defer hiring of adequate staffing to provide
service generally supported by the City’s General Fund due to rising cost of services,
increasing demand for service, and inadequate revenue from taxes to fund these services.

E.	These cuts have included, but are not limited to, lowering the number of police
and fire personnel available to respond to calls and special crime teams, eliminating most
public safety education programs for children, eliminating vehicle replacement funds
keeping older and undependable public safety vehicles on the street, closing down city
public counters early each day to better utilize staff and prevent the need for overtime
expense, mowing parks every two weeks instead of once per week, reducing median
landscaping maintenance to once per year, reducing repair and preventative maintenance
of City streets, decreasing code enforcement capability to only those most urgent health

and safety hazards, and eliminating some programs for youth and family recreation and
seniors.

F.	In addition, deferment of maintenance and capital facilities investments persists
without the ability to adequately fund such activities.

G.	For the public health, safety, and welfare of the residents and businesses of
Clovis, the City Council finds that it is necessary to restore and meet recommended city
service levels, restore deferred capital funds, and meet currently identified capital needs.

H.	The City Council further finds that an additional one percent (1.00%) transactions
and use tax (“Sales Tax”) in the City for ten years and seventy five one hundredths of one
percent (0.75%) thereafter is the best way to raise the necessary revenue to address the
City’s service and capital funding needs, and seeks voter approval for the tax.

SECTION 2. NEW ARTICLE 7 TO CHAPTER 3.3. A new Article 7 to Chapter 3.3 is
hereby added to Title 3 ("Taxes") of the Clovis Municipal Code, to read as follows:

Article 7. Essential City Services Restoration and
Protection Transactions and Use Tax

3.3.701	Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the "Essential City Services Restoration and
Protection” Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Clovis hereinafter shall be
called "City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.3.702	Operative	Date.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being
as set forth below.

3.3.703	Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A. To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
. purpose.

2

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by
the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost
of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.3.704	Contract With State.

Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.3.705	Transactions (Sales) Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one
percent (1.00%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.
Such tax shall be in addition to any other transactions (sales) tax imposed by this Code or
applicable State law.

Beginning on July 1, 2019, the tax rate set forth in this section shall be seventy
five one hundredths of one percent (0.75%). Prior to July 1, 2019, the City shall enter
into any necessary contract amendments with the State Board of Equalization to
implement the change in tax rate from 1.00% to 0.75% effective July 1, 2019; provided,
that if the City shall not have entered into any necessary contract amendments with the
State Board of Equalization prior to July 1, 2019, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date for the 0.75% tax rate shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such contract amendments.

3

3.3.706

Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.3.707 Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative
date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of
one percent (1.00%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. Such tax shall be in addition to any other use tax
imposed by this Code or applicable State law.

Beginning on July 1,2019, the tax rate set forth in this section shall be seventy
five one hundredths of one percent (0.75%). Prior to July 1, 2019, the City shall enter
into any necessary contract amendments with the State Board of Equalization to
implement the change in tax rate from 1.00% to 0.75% effective July 1, 2019; provided,
that if the City shall not have entered into any necessary contract amendments with the
State Board of Equalization prior to July 1, 2019, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date for the 0.75% tax rate shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such contract amendments.

3.3.708. Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein. In accordance with Section 3.3.712, any amendments to
applicable Revenue and Taxation Code sections shall be deemed incorporated herein.

3.3.709 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution
shall not be made:

1.	When the word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	When the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

C.	In accordance with Section 3.3.712, any amendments to applicable
Revenue and Taxation Code sections shall be deemed incorporated herein.

3.3.710 Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

In accordance with Section 3.3.712, any amendments to applicable Revenue and
Taxation Code sections shall be deemed incorporated herein.

5

3.3.711

Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer
or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has

6

the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting
or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	nA retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter I
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses
the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

7

/

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use
or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

E.	In accordance with Section 3.3.712, any amendments to applicable
Revenue and Taxation Code sections shall be deemed incorporated herein.

3.3.712	Amendments.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part
1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by
this ordinance unless any increase in the rate of this tax is first approved by the voters of
the City of Clovis voting on such question.

B.	The City Council of the City of Clovis may make amendments to this
ordinance that do not affect the rate of tax imposed by majority vote of the Council
without approval of the voters of the City. The City Council may repeal this ordinance
by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Council without approval of the voters of the City,
provided all indebtedness secured by the tax have been satisfied. The City Council may
amend the rate of tax imposed herein (increase or decrease) only upon two-thirds (2/3)
vote of the Council and with approval of the voters of the City.

3.3.713	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any
officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

3.3.714	Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

8

3.3.715

Use of Tax Proceeds.

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be paid into the
General Fund for use by the City of Clovis.

3.3.716 Annual Audit and Independent Citizens Oversight Committee.

By no later than December 31st of each year, the City’s independent auditors shall
complete a Financial Audit Report to include the revenue raised by this tax and used for
general purposes as intended.

The City Council shall also establish an independent seven (7) member Citizens
Oversight Committee within one (1) year after the Operative Date. The Citizens
Oversight Committee shall be responsible for reviewing how the revenue raised by this
tax was expended and shall have the following make up and responsibilities:

1.	The members shall represent the community at large. City employees and
officials, and contractors or individuals who do business with the City of Clovis and
would directly benefit from use of the tax, may not serve on the Committee.

2.	Terms of members shall be two (2) years with no more than two (2)
consecutive terms.

3.	The purpose of the Committee shall be to inform the public regarding the
expenditure of funds associated with the tax set forth in this ordinance and alert the
public to any waste of funds. Specifically, the Committee shall:

a.	Review annual and independent financial audits.

b.	Inspect facilities and public space that are constructed and/or improved by
use of the funds.

c.	Annually issue a public report to the City Council and the Clovis
community relating to the Committee’s review of the City’s use of funds generated the
preceding year by the sales tax override.

4.	The Committee shall operate as a public committee with all meetings open
to the public in accordance with the provisions of the Brown Act, and provide reports and
documents to be part of the official public record.

5.	The City Manager’s office shall provide administrative support for the
Committee to perform its functions. The City Manager shall also establish a technical
advisory group comprised of city employees with expertise in city operations and budgets
that are supported by the General Fund and benefit from the use of this tax to provide
input to the Committee during the course of review.

SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE: VOTER APPROVAL. This ordinance relates to the
levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect 10 days

following certification by the City Council of approval by a majority vote of the qualified
voters of the City voting at the March 3, 2009 election and the Council hereby calls for an
election of this ordinance as set forth in a separate resolution, said election to be
consolidated with the next regularly scheduled local election on March 3, 2009.

SECTION 4. PUBLICATION AND CERTIFICATION. The City Clerk shall publish
this ordinance as required by applicable law. Upon approval by the voters, the City Clerk
shall certify the passage of this ordinance by the voters, forward a copy of the adopted
ordinance to the Board of Equalization, and cause the ordinance to be codified in the
Clovis Municipal Code.

The foregoing ordinance was introduced and read at a regular meeting of the City
Council held on November 10, 2008, and was adopted at a regular meeting of said
Council held on December 1, 2008, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Armstrong,	Ashbeck,	Flores,	Magsig

NOES:	Mayor Whalen

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

DATED: December 1, 2008

10