Impartial Analysis of Measure A

The City currently imposes a transient occupancy tax upon hotel and motel room stays
by guests in the amount of seven percent (7%) of the applicable rental rate. Measure A
increases the amount of transient occupancy tax from seven percent (7%) to nine
percent (9%) effective January 1, 2010, and to ten percent (10%) effective January 1,
2013. The tax is payable to the hotel/motel operator at the time the rent is paid by the
hotel/motel guest and if paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be
paid with each installment. The unpaid tax is due upon the guest’s ceasing to occupy
space in the hotel/motel. Any due tax not paid to the hotel/motel operator may be
required to be paid to the City’s tax administrator.

The additional transient occupancy taxes paid would be general taxes, the revenues
from which would be placed into the General Fund of the City, and the City would be
permitted to use the revenues for any valid municipal purpose. This Measure would
take effect only if approved by a majority of those voting on the Measure at the March 3,
2009 General Municipal Election.

James L. Markman, City Attorney

Let’s maintain our local services and facilities in the City of La Mirada.
Vote Yes on Measure A, the transient occupancy tax on hotel room stays.

• Yes on Measure A will help support public safety services.

• Yes on Measure A will help maintain City streets.

•	Yes on Measure A will help preserve youth and senior programs and
services.

•	Yes on Measure A will help maintain park and recreation facilities.

La Mirada has a long tradition of adopting balanced City budgets, but each year it
becomes more difficult to do so without negatively impacting the level of City
services provided to the public. In these difficult economic times, City officials
are making a major effort to control costs and preserve service levels. Measure
A is a key to addressing this problem.

We support a YES vote on Measure A for many reasons.

•	Funds collected will be paid by visitors who stay in local hotel rooms.

•	Funds are generated locally, and can’t be taken away by the State.

•	The money will help maintain our public safety services, preserve youth
and senior services, maintain parks and recreation facilities, and support
economic growth in La Mirada.

•	A small hotel room tax increase of only 3%, phased in over several years,
will not hurt local hotel and business owners or prevent tourists from
staying in La Mirada.

•	La Mirada’s new rate will continue to be competitive with neighboring
cities.

Yes on Measure A is the best way for our community to maintain vital City
services without costing residents. Please join your neighbors, community
leaders, and hotel operators in voting Yes on Measure A.

Hal Malkin, Mayor

Lou Piltz, Former Mayor and Councilmember

Pat Ruiz, La Mirada Symphony President
and Former School Board President

Joe Subramaniam, General Manager
Gateway Plaza Holiday Inn

Eddie Navarro, General Manager
Extended Stay America, La Mirada


CITY OF LA MIRADA
AFFIDAVIT OF POSTING

I, Anne Haraksin, certify that I caused to be posted the following document in the
areas designated for posting on March 18, 2009:

ORDINANCE NO. 628

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LA MIRADA INCREASING
THE CITY’S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX FROM SEVEN
PERCENT (7%) TO NINE PERCENT (9%) EFFECTIVE JANUARY
1, 2010, AND TO TEN PERCENT (10%) EFFECTIVE JANUARY
1, 2013, AND AMENDING TITLE 3 OF THE LA MIRADA
MUNICIPAL CODE.

Anne Haraksin, City Clerk

ORDINANCE NO. 628

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LA MIRADA INCREASING
THE CITY’S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX FROM SEVEN
PERCENT (7%) TO NINE PERCENT (9%) EFFECTIVE JANUARY
1, 2010, AND TO TEN PERCENT (10%) EFFECTIVE JANUARY
1, 2013, AND AMENDING TITLE 3 OF THE LA MIRADA
MUNICIPAL CODE.

The People of the City of La Mirada hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1. Section 3.06.030 of Chapter 3.06 of Title 3 of the La Mirada
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

“3.06.030 Payment of transient occupancy tax.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall
pay a tax in the amount of seven percent (7%) of the rent charged by the
operator. Commencing January 1, 2010, said tax shall increase to nine percent
(9%), and commencing January 1, 2013, said tax shall increase to ten percent
(10%). Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city, which is
extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The transient shall
pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is
paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each
installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy
space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the
hotel, the tax administrator may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the
tax administrator.”

Section 2. Unless otherwise provided by faw, the City Council of the City of La
Mirada may not increase the amount of tax established by this Ordinance, except as
otherwise provided by law, without an additional vote of the People. However, the City
Council is hereby authorized to make any other amendments and adjustments to this
Ordinance and to the text of the section of the La Mirada Municipal Code hereby
amended, including but not limited to, reducing the amount of tax, adding, deleting or
modifying conditions, criteria or language with respect to the application of the transient
occupancy tax.

Section 3. Severability. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect
other provisions or applications of this Ordinance which can be given effect without the
invalid provision or application. To this end, the provisions of this Ordinance are
severable. The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this Ordinance
irrespective of the invalidity of any particular portion thereof.

Ordinance No. 628

Section 4. This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of the
voters voting thereon, and, if approved, shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is
declared by the City Council.

Section 5. The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this Ordinance.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED this 20lh day of March, 2009.

I, Anne Haraksin, City Clerk of the City of La Mirada, do hereby certify that the foregoing
Ordinance No. 628 was passed by the voters of La Mirada pursuant to the General
Municipal Election held March 3, 2009.

ATTEST:

Anne Haraksin, City Clerk