City of San Carlos

Compiled by the City of San Carlos City Clerk Christine Boland
Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Measure U

City of San Carlos Vital Services Measure. To prevent further cuts and preserve funding for general city services, including fire protection,
paramedics and 9-1-1 emergency response; police protection and crime prevention; street repair and maintenance; and avoiding closure of parks and
sports fields, shall the City of San Carlos adopt an ordinance enacting a one-half cent transactions and use tax (sales tax), a general tax, for six years
with independent annual audits and all funds staying local?

Impartial Analysis of Measure U	Argument	In	Favor	of	Measure	U

The measure proposes a local one-half cent Transactions and Use tax
(sales tax) on purchases made in the City of San Carlos or assessed as
allowed by law in addition to existing sales taxes. The additional one-
half cent sales tax would commence April 1, 2010 and continue for six (6)
consecutive years. An extension of this tax would require City Council
action and a new vote of the public.

The proposed one-half cent sales tax is a general tax and as such, the
funds received from the tax will be placed in the general fund of the City
of San Carlos for City programs, general City functions, or in any manner
allowed by law as directed by the City Council. Examples of such general
fund expenditures could include police, fire services, street maintenance,
parks and recreation programs and capital improvements.

This initiative requires a majority vote (fifty percent plus one) to

pass.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure U. If
you desire a copy of the Measure, please call the City Clerk’s
Office at (650) 802-4219 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to
you.

Keep the “City of Good Living” a great place to live! Vote YES on Measure
U.

Here’s the situation. Since 2000, San Carlos has:

•	Realized minimal revenue growth and a growing demand for services

•	Slashed its budget by reducing staff, benefits, and pension costs

•	Deferred most capital and infrastructure projects

•	Complied with, and paid for, all mandated state and federal programs

While we’ll continue to be very diligent about expense control, we face
deficits that budget cutting can’t solve.

And to make a bad situation worse, the state will be dipping into our city
coffers to the tune of $2.4 million this year alone.

It’s important to note that when compared to local cities of similar size
(Belmont, Menlo Park, Burlingame, Foster City), San Carlos:

•	Has the lowest city staffing level

•	Receives only 13% of your property taxes (the average of the four
other cities is 20.2%)

•	Has not enacted a revenue measure for 10 years

This initiative will add one half percent to the sales tax for 6 years. It will
produce approximately $2.2 million in yearly revenue for San Carlos that
cannot be shared by the state. And non-San Carlos residents will generate
income for us as they shop and dine in town.

We all value our neighborhood parks, recreation programs, and police
and fire departments. Without the revenue produced by Measure U, our
emergency services, park quality, and recreation resources will be severely
reduced. These facilities and services are critical contributors to our safety,
quality of life, and property values.

Please keep our “City of Good Living” a great place to live. Vote for good!
Vote YES on Measure U.

For additional information, please go to www.vote4goodliving.com

/s/ Seth Rosenblatt

Member, San Carlos School Board

/s/ Scot Marsters

Past President, GESC (Greater East San Carlos)

/s/ Barbara Billings

San Carlos community volunteer

/s/ Thomas Davids

Past Mayor and City Councilmember, City of San Carlos

/s/ Linda Teutschel

Chairperson, San Carlos Hometown Days, and community volunteer

City of San Carlos

Compiled by the City of San Carlos City Clerk Christine Boland
Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Rebuttal to Argument In Favor of Measure U_________	Argument	Against	Measure	U

The City of San Carlos’ Mission Statement reads that they provide “high
quality services and facilities in a fiscally sustainable manner.” According
to proponents of Measure U, that’s how the City has been managed. “Since
2000, San Carlos has slashed its budget by reducing staff, benefits and
pension costs.”

But over those nine years, while revenues have increased 3 percent annually
on average, and operational costs have grown the same, salary and benefit
costs have grown at 7 percent. Spending this way is not sustainable and the
problem is obvious.

Now they want us to pay more so that we can pay more? Pay more in taxes
to pay more in salaries and benefits?

Increasing the sales tax rate in San Carlos is not the solution. It is more
likely to exacerbate the problem. Neighboring cities are not pursuing
higher sales taxes, therefore, a higher tax in San Carlos may lead to fewer
customers, fewer purchases, closed businesses and reduced revenue.

The ongoing recession has had a negative impact on our local businesses,
especially retailers and restaurants. We should be supporting this vital
sector of our economy, not punishing it by imposing higher taxes on their
sales.

We know the City has made budget cuts; cuts to a plan. But have city
administrators or elected officials cut expenses where it’s really needed?
We don’t believe so and placing a burden on our local businesses isn’t the
solution. Please Vote NO on Measure U.

/s/	Matt Grocott	August 24, 2009
/s/	Janice Raymond	August 24, 2009
/s/	Dennis Werkmeister	August 24, 2009
/s/	Gary Young	August 24, 2009
/s/	Horst Jung	August 24, 2009

Taxes have outpaced inflation, decade after decade. We must draw a line
in the sand, now.

No tax increase is affordable, when added to the other taxes we pay:

•	Property Taxes (plus special assessments)

•	Sales Taxes (county and state)

•	Income Taxes (state and federal)

•	Vehicle Ticense fees & taxes

•	Gas taxes (state and federal)

•	Telecommunications taxes

•	additional excise taxes on alcohol, tobacco, gasoline, tires, etc.

How much is enough?

•	In 1960 the sales tax was only 3%.

•Today it is 9.25% in all cities in San Mateo County.

•Increasing that to nearly 10% in San Carlos would be crazy!

Raising taxes never stopped politicians from claiming they need more
money. But higher taxes always make it harder for regular people to make
ends meet. And some can’t.

Retailers struggle to survive on razor-thin profit margins. Higher taxes
won’t help anybody, including city governments, if local businesses are
forced to close their doors, due to unprofitability.

Please vote ‘NO ’ on the San Carlos sales tax increase.

/s/ Kevin Dempsey Peterson	August	14,	2009

Treasurer, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County

/s/ John J. Hickey	August	14,	2009

6

City of San Carlos

Compiled by the City of San Carlos City Clerk Christine Boland
Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure U

No one likes to pay taxes, but we all use the services they support - fire and
police protection, parks, sewers, streets, maintenance, and the Youth and
Adult Community Centers.

San Carlos has not realized a revenue increase in 10 years, while our state
funding and property tax revenue have dropped significantly. In 1978, San
Carlos received 13 cents from the state for every dollar of property tax
collected, but we now receive only 11 cents. The status of our revenue
stream is dire, and essential services and programs are seriously at risk.

To be fiscally responsible, any tax increase must be preceded by assertive
and sustained efforts to reduce expenses. The City has already cut over
30% of administrative costs and reduced public works by 19%, and City
Council’s commitment to reducing expenses is ongoing and aggressive.

Measure U is a responsible and conservative request for funding to protect
our services and maintain our safety and property values. It represents only
a 50 cent assessment on a $100 purchase, generates revenue from non-
residents who shop and dine in town, and expires in six years.

Economic times like these require us to come together and protect what
we’ve worked hard to create. Measure U is endorsed by a diverse group of
residents, small businesses, and the San Carlos Chamber of Commerce. It
deserves your thoughtful consideration, not a knee-jerk reaction to taxes in
general. Please support your community by voting “YES” on Measure U.

/s/ Mary Jo Hoffman

Vice Chair, General Plan Advisory Committee

/s/ Ronald Collins

Board member, San Carlos Chamber of Commerce

/s/ Mike Aydelott

Past Chair, San Carlos Arts and Culture Commission