MEASURE“A”

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF GARDENA UPDATING THE
TELEPHONE/TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVISIONS OF THE UTILITY USERS

TAX.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF GARDENA, CALIFORNIA DO HEREBY ORDAIN
AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Section 3.20.010 of Chapter 3.20 of the Gardena Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

3.20.010	Definitions.

For the purposes of this chapter, unless otherwise apparent from the context, certain words and
phrases used in this chapter are defined as follows:

(a)	“Ancillary Telecommunictions Services” shall mean services that are associated
with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services, including but
not limited to the following services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that links two or
more participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision of a
telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include the telecommunications services
used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunications billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone
number information, and/or address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection
with one or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling features that allow
customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections, including
conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer
to store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any vertical
services that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize the voice mail service.

(b)	“Billing Address” shall mean the mailing address of the service user where the
service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the service user.

(c)	“City” shall mean the City of Gardena, California.

(d)	“City Manager” shall mean the City Manager of the City, or his or her authorized
representative.

(e)	“Communication Services” shall mean telecommunication services and ancillary
telecommunication services.

(f)	“Cogenerator” shall mean any corporation or person employing cogeneration (as
defined in Section 218.5 of the California Public Utilities Code) for producing power for the

Page 1 of 3

generation of electricity for self use or sale to others from a qualified cogeneration facility (as
defined in the federal Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 and regulations thereunder).

(g)	“Exempt Wholesale Generator” shall have the same meaning as set forth in the
Federal Power Act (15 U.S.C. Section 79z-5a) and the regulations thereunder.

(h)	“Gas” shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel,
which may be substituted therefor.

(i)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” shall have the same meaning and usage as
set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the
regulations thereunder.

(j)	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

(k)	“Municipal Organization” shall mean an organization or association created by
statute or by voluntary action, whose purpose is to facilitate the development and dissemination
of uniform rulings or interpretations regarding the application of utility users taxes to
communications services in the State of California.

(l)	“Non-Utility Service Supplier” shall mean:

(1)	a service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all
or a significant portion of the City, which generates electricity for sale to others, and shall
include but is not limited to any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility,
cogenerator, distributed generation provider, exempt wholesale generator, municipal utility
district, federal power marketing agency, electric rural cooperative, or other supplier or seller of
electricity;

(2)	an electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator,
pool operator, or other electricity supplier other than a supplier of electric distribution services to
all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies electricity or supplemental services
to electricity users within the City;

(3)	a gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than a supplier
of gas distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies gas
or supplemental services to gas users within the City; or,

(4)	a water service supplier, distributor, wholesaler, marketer, or broker, which
sells or supplies water to users within the City (other than a supplier of water distribution
services to all or a significant portion of the City).

(m)	“Person” shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual; firm; trust;
common law trust; estate; partnership of every kind; association; syndicate; society; club; joint
stock company; joint venture; limited liability company; corporation (including foreign,
domestic, and non-profit); municipal corporation (other than the City); municipal district;
cooperative; or receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court.

(n)	“Place of Primary Use” shall mean the street address representative of where the
customer’s use of the communications service primarily occurs, which must be the residential
street address or the primary business street address of the customer.

(o)	“Post-Paid Telecommunication Service” shall mean the telecommunication service
obtained by making a payment on a telecommunication-by-telecommunication basis either through
the use of a credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or

Page 2 of 9

debit card, or by charge made to a service number which is not associated with the origination or
termination of the telecommunication service.

(p)	“Prepaid Telecommunication Service” shall mean the right to access
telecommunication services, which must be paid for in advance and which enables the origination
of telecommunications using an access number or authorization code, whether manually or
electronically dialed, and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the number
declines with use in a known amount.

(q)	“Private Telecommunication Service” shall mean a telecommunication service that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a telecommunications channel or group of
channels between or among termination points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or
channels are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other
associated services that are provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A
telecommunications channel is a physical or virtual path of telecommunications over which signals
are transmitted between or among customer channel termination points (i.e., the location where the
customer either inputs or receives the telecommunications).

(r)	“Service Address” means any of the following:

(1)	The location of the service user’s telecommunications equipment from
which the telecommunication originates or terminates, regardless of where the
telecommunication is billed or paid; or,

(2)	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (e.g., mobile
telecommunications or VoIP service), the service address means the location of the service user’s
place of primary use, or

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” means the location
associated with the service number.

(s)	“Service Supplier” shall mean any entity or person, including the City that provides
communication, electric, gas or water services to a user of such services within the City. The term
shall include any entity or person required to collect, or self-collect under Section 3.20.060 of this
chapter, and remit a tax as imposed by this chapter, including its billing agent in the case of
communication, electric, gas or water service suppliers.

(t)	“Service User” shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter.

(u)	“State” shall mean the State of California.

(v)	“Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement” shall mean the multi-state agreement
commonly known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, and as it is
amended from time to time.

(w)	“Tax Administrator” shall mean the Administrative Services Director of the City,
or his or her authorized representative.

(x)	“Telecommunications Services” shall mean the transmission, conveyance, or
routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or
among points, whatever the technology used. The term “telecommunications services” includes
such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to
act on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or
routing without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet protocol
(VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or
value added, and includes video and/or data services that is functionally integrated with

Page 3 of 9

“telecommunication services”. “Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to
the following services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or
billed: ancillary telecommunication services; mobile telecommunications service; prepaid
telecommunication service; post-paid telecommunication service; private telecommunication
service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission); 900 service (or any other similar numbers designated by the
Federal Communications Commission for services whereby subscribers who call in to pre-
recorded or live service).

(y)	“VoIP” (voice over internet protocol) shall mean the digital process of making
and receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

(z)	“800	SERVICE” shall mean a “telecommunications service” that allows a caller

to dial a toll-free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically
marketed under the name “800”, “855”, “866”, “877”, and “888” toll-free calling, and any
subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

(aa)	“900 SERVICE” shall mean an inbound toll “telecommunications service”
purchased by a subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s
prerecorded announcement or live service. “900 service” does not include the charge for:
collection services provided by the seller of the “telecommunications services” to the subscriber,
or service or product sold by the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is typically
marketed under the name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission.

Section 2. Subsection (b) of Section 3.20.020 of Chapter 3.20 of the Gardena Municipal
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

3.20.020	Constitutional exemptions.

(b)	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this subchapter
pursuant to division (A) shall file an application with the Tax Administrator for an exemption;
provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a state or federal
agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized name. Said application shall be made upon a
form approved by the Tax Administrator and shall state those facts, declared under penalty of
perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall include the names of all utility
service suppliers serving that service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such
service user shall give the Tax Administrator timely written notice of any change in utility
service suppliers so that the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new utility service
supplier of the service user's tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this
section shall not be entitled to a refund of utility users taxes collected and remitted to the Tax
Administrator from such service user as a result of such non-compliance. Upon request of the
Tax Administrator, a service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent, shall
provide a list of the names and addresses of those customers which, according to its billing
records, are deemed exempt from the utility users tax.

Page 4 of 9

Section 3. Section 3.20.030 of Chapter 3.20 of the Gardena Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

3.20.030 Communication users’ tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City who uses intrastate
communication services in the city. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five
percent (5%) of all charges made for such services and shall be collected from the service user
by the service supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that
communication services, which services are capable of terminating a call to another person on
the general telephone network, and which are billed to a billing or service address in the City, are
used, in whole or in part, within the City’s boundaries, and such services are subject to taxation
under this chapter. If the billing address of the service user is different from the service address,
the service address of the service user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax.

(b)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” shall be sourced in accordance with the
sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124).
The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication service suppliers, which are
subject to the tax collection requirements of this chapter, sourcing rules for the taxation of other
communication services, including but not limited to post-paid telecommunication services,
prepaid telecommunication services, and private telecommunication services, provided that such
rules are based upon custom and common practice that further administrative efficiency and
minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation (e.g., Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement).

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service
user in exchange for the communication services.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may issue and disseminate to
communication service suppliers that are subject to the tax collection requirements of this
chapter, an administrative ruling identifying those communication services that are subject to the
tax of subsection (a) above. This administrative ruling shall not impose a new tax, revise an
existing tax methodology as stated in this chapter, or increase an existing tax except as allowed
by California Government Code Section 53750(h)(2), as it may be amended from time to time.

(e)	As used in this section, the term “communication services” shall not include
“private mobile radio service” [as defined in Part 20.3 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal
Regulations] or “private mobile service” [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 332(d)(3)], which is
not interconnected with the public switched network. As used in this section, the term
“communications services” shall include, but shall not be limited to charges for: connection,
reconnection, termination, movement, or change of communications services; late payment fees;
detailed billing; central office and custom calling features (including but not limited to call
waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling); voice mail and other
messaging services; directory assistance; access and line charges; universal service charges;
regulatory, administrative and other cost recovery charges; local number portability charges; and
text and instant messaging. “Communication services” shall not include digital downloads such
as, music, ringtones, games, and similar digital products.

(f)	To facilitate the uniform interpretation and application of similar ordinance
provisions in other local jurisdictions in the state, the Tax Administrator may, prior to issuing
and disseminating a sourcing rule or an administrative tax ruling, submit his or her proposed
sourcing rule or administrative tax ruling to a Municipal Organization for review and comment,
according to the rules and procedures of that Municipal Organization, or its successor
organization.

(g)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of communication services subject to
tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the service user
has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such communication services, shall
be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally
imposed in such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the
tax owed to the City under this section.

(h)	. The tax on communication services imposed by this section shall be collected from
the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before
the thirtieth (30th) day of the following month.

Section 4. Section 3.20.080 of Chapter 3.20 of the Gardena Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

3.20.080	Effect of Bundling Non-Taxable with Taxable Items.

If any nontaxable charges are bundled with and not separately stated from taxable service
charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge is subject to
tax unless the service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of
the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier's books and
records kept in the regular course of business, and in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has
the burden of proving the proper apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges. If the
service supplier offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges are
separately stated, then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable
services shall be based on its books and records kept in the regular course of business and in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax
purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper valuation of the taxable and
non-taxable services.

Section 5. Section 3.20.090 of Chapter 3.20 of the Gardena Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

3.20.090	Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this
chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the
imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by
state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by

statutory enactment. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the City for
tax collection and remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any of the
following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of
business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees, independent contractors,
resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the City on a continuous, regular,
seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a
transmitter with the City or distributed from a location within the City; or advertises in
newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the City or through materials
distributed in the City by means other than the United States mail; or if there are activities
performed in the City on behalf of the service supplier that are significantly associated with the
service supplier's ability to establish and maintain a market in the City for the provision of
services that are subject to a tax under this Chapter.

Section 6. Subsection (b) of Section 3.20.160 of Chapter 3.20 of the Gardena Municipal
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

3.20.160	Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations not
inconsistent with provisions of this chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying
out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of
such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator’s office. To
the extent that the Tax Administrator determines that the tax imposed under this chapter shall not
be collected in full for any period of time from any particular service supplier or service user,
that determination shall be considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator's discretion to settle
disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government
Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The Tax Administrator is not authorized to amend the City's
methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750 and the City does not waive or
abrogate its ability to impose the communication users’ tax in full as a result of promulgating
administrative rulings or entering into agreements.

Section 7. Section 3.20.230 of Chapter 3.20 of the Gardena Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

3.20.230	Future Amendment to Cited Statute.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that such
reference to a statute herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or to any
subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of law with the
duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of interpretation would
require voter approval under California law, or to the extent that such change would result in a
tax decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of any utility service, or charge therefor, from

Page 7 of 9

taxation). Only to the extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would
result, the prior version of the statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any
application or situation that would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax,
provisions of the amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum
possible extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this
chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no amendment or
modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax
shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of the
tax imposed under this chapter.

Section 8. Section 3.20.250 of Chapter 3.20 of the Gardena Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

3.20.250 Operative Date.

The amendments to this chapter shall become effective immediately upon the date that
this Ordinance is confirmed and approved by the voters of Gardena at the Municipal General
Election of March 3, 2009.

Section 9. Section 3.20.260 of Chapter 3.20 of the Gardena Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

3.20.260 Temporary Adjustments to Amount to be Collected.

The tax rate imposed upon every telephone user, electricity user, gas user, and water user
shall be a maximum of five percent (5%), except where any service user or service supplier is
made expressly exempt from the utility users’ tax by this chapter. However, beginning on
December 1, 1987, the amount to be collected from every telephone user, electricity user, gas
user and water user in the city shall be calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of the charges
made for such service and shall be paid by the person paying for such service The utility users
tax shall be reviewed annually by the City Council, in consultation with the Finance Committee,
and the City Council may, by ordinance or resolution, adjust the rate or temporarily suspend all
or a portion of the tax, as appropriate to the financial condition of the city. No adjustment to the
rate or temporary suspension of the tax shall constitute a decrease in a tax, or an increase in a tax
requiring voter approval under California Constitution Article XIIIC (Proposition 218); provided
the City Council’s action does not increase the tax beyond the maximum rate or methodology set
forth in this voter-approved ordinance. To the extent that any aspect of a rate adjustment or
temporary tax suspension is found to invoke such a requirement under Proposition 218, the entire
City Council action shall be deemed null and void ab initio, and there shall be no entitlement to
adjustment or suspension for any service user.

Section 10. Effective Date. This ordinance is subject to a vote of the citizens of
Gardena and shall take effect, if approved by a majority of the voters voting at such election,
immediately upon certification of the election by the City Clerk.

Section 11. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is
for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this
ordinance. The People of the City of Gardena hereby declare that they would have adopted this
ordinance and each section, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more section, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.

Section 12. Certification/Summary. Following the City Clerk’s certification that the
citizens of Gardena have approved this Ordinance, the Mayor shall sign this Ordinance and the
City Clerk shall cause the same to be entered in the book of original ordinances of said City; and
shall cause the same, or a summary thereof, to be published as required by law.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED, this 3rd day of March, 2009.

ATTEST:

PAUL K. TANAKA, Mayor

TASHA CERDA, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

PETER L. WALLIN, City Attorney

Page 9 of 9