IMPARTIAL ANAYLSIS OF MEASURE P

Measure P revises the method for calculating certain business license taxes in the City of Beverly Hills. The following
changes are proposed to the City’s business license tax rates:

TvDe of Business	Current Annual Tax	ProDosed Annual Tax
Oil Production from Wells Drilled Partially Within Beverly Hills	$1,895 flat fee for the first 10,000 barrels of oil produced per well  $0.14 (14 cents) per barrel of oil for each additional barrel No tax on natural gas production	1.5% of gross receipts from the sale of oil, plus  1.5% of gross receipts from the sale of natural gas, plus  $2,000 annual flat fee per well regardless of production
Oil Production From Wells Drilled Entirely Within Beverly Hills	$3,804 flat fee for the first 10,000 barrels of oil produced per well  $0.35 (35 cents) per barrel of oil for each additional barrel No tax on natural gas production	2.0% of gross receipts from the sale of oil, plus  2.0% of gross receipts from the sale of natural gas, plus  $2,000 annual flat fee per well regardless of production
Professionals	$1,288 for the first professional, plus  $0.6192 (61.92 cents) per additional hour of professional/ semi-professional service rendered during the year, plus  $0.1244 (12.44 cents) per hour of non professional payroll during the year	0.5% of annual gross receipts from the business
Business and Personal Services	$232 for the first worker, plus  $0.0485 (4.85 cents) for each additional hour of employee payroll during the year	0.1 % of annual gross receipts from the business
Corporate or other headquarters	$232 for the first worker employed in Beverly Hills, plus  $0.0485 (4.85 cents) for each additional hour of payroll during the year for those employees located in Beverly Hills	0.1 % of annual gross payroll for those employees located in Beverly Hills
Commercial Parking Operations	$232 for the first worker, plus  $0.0485 (4.85 cents) for each additional hour of employee payroll during the year	10% of annual gross receipts from the business

The City’s other business license tax rates would remain unchanged.

The City’s Chief Financial Officer estimates that the proposed business license tax revision will generate an additional
5.2 million dollars to 7.2 million dollars in revenue annually to the City of Beverly Hills.

All revenue generated by the City’s business license taxes is retained by the City and deposited in the City’s general
fund. The general fund is the primary funding source for the City’s operations and services such as police services,
fire services, paramedic services, and recreation services. The general fund is also the primary funding source for
maintenance of City facilities and infrastructure (other than utilities) including, parks, streets and sidewalks, and the
City’s library.

Measure P also updates definitions and makes other administrative changes to the City’s business license tax
ordinance.

A “yes” vote approves the revisions to the business license tax ordinance. A “no” vote rejects the revisions to the
business license tax ordinance. Business license taxes may not be increased unless approved by the City’s voters.

LAURENCE S. WIENER
City Attorney
City of Beverly Hills

The above statement is an Impartial Analyis of Measure P. A copy of the Measure is available at the Beverly
Hills Public Library and on the City’s website at www.beverlvhills.org. If you have any questions, please contact
the City Clerk’s Office at (310) 285-2400.

Beverly Hills/15

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Measure P is on the ballot to make technical changes to outdated methods for calculating certain business taxes in
Beverly Hills.

Measure P only impacts businesses and will not increase taxes paid by homeowners or other residents of the city who
do not own businesses in Beverly Hills.

For example, the city currently taxes oil companies at a flat rate per barrel. The method for calculating this tax was
established over 30 years ago and the price of oil has increased by 900% during this time. Measure P will change the
flat rate per barrel to a tax linked to the price of oil.

,1

The city does not currently tax businesses that operate commercial parking lots. Measure P will establish a tax similar
to those in neighboring cities.

Measure P will make business tax policies fairer. The amount of taxes that a business pays will be based on the money
it makes, not the number of employees it has.

If Measure P is approved, the business taxes paid in Beverly Hills will still be less than in any surrounding city.

All funds raised by Measure P will stay in Beverly Hills and can’t be taken away by the State.

Funds from Measure P will:

-	Maintain police protection and investigations that keeps our community safe

-	Preserve firefighting, paramedics and rapid response to life threatening emergencies

- Maintain funding for Beverly Hills schools to limit the impact of state budget cuts and keep our schools among
the best in the State

-	Pave, maintain and repair local streets	\

-	Keep parks and other public areas clean, landscaped and well-maintained

By maintaining the outstanding quality of city services in our community, Measure P will protect our property values
and quality of life.

Please vote Yes on P.

/s/ Joan Seidel, Former Treasurer
/s/ Leslie Bronte, Former Mayor
/s/ Mark Egerman, Former Mayor
/s/ Eliot M. Finkel, City Treasurer
/s/ Fred J. Hayman

Beverly Hills / 16