FULL TEXT OF MEASURE O

ORDINANCE NO. 2010-03

An ordinance of the city of Albany,

CALIFORNIA ADDING SECTION 4-11,
SUBSECTIONS 4-11.1 ET SEQ. TO CHAPTER IV
TO THE ALBANY MUNICIPAL CODE WITH
RESPECT TO AN ELECTRIC, GAS, AND
COMMUNICATION USER’S TAX.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF ALBANY, CAL-
IFORNIA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION .1. Chapter TV, Section 4-11 of the Albany
. Municipal Co.de is hereby enacted, and it shall read as fol-
lows: :

Article 4-11
Utility Users’ Tax
4-11.1 Short Title
4-11.2 Definitions

4-11.3 Constitutional. Statutory, and Other Exemptions .
4-11.4 Communication Users’ Tax
4-11.5 . Electricity Users Tax
4-11.6 Gas Users Tax

4-11.7 Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving
Direct Purchase of Gas or Electricity
4-11.8 Bundling’Taxable Items with Nontaxable Items
4-11.9 Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts
4-11.10 Duty to Collect- Procedures
4-11.11 Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers
4-11.12 Actions to Collect

4-1L13 Deficiency Determination and Assessment -
Tax Application Errors	'

4-11.14 Administrative Remedy - Nonpaving Service
.	Users	.

4-11.15 Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax

4-11.22 No Increase in Tax Percentage or Change in
Methodology without Voter Approval
4-11.23 Independent Audit of Tax Collection. Exemp-
tion. Remi ttance, and Expenditure
4-1L24 Remedies Cumulative
4-11.25 Interaction with Prior Tax .

4-11.1 Short Title

This Section. 4-11. shall be known as the “Electric-
Gas. and Communication Users’ Tax Law” of the City
of Albany.

4-11.2 Definitions

The following words and'phrases whenever used in
this Section. 4-11. shall be construed as defined in this
Section.

(al “Ancillary telecommunication services”

means services that are associated with or incidental to the .
provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications ser-
vices. including but not limited to the following services:

. £11 “Conference bridging service” means an
ancillary service that links two (2s) or more participants of
an audio or video conference call and may include the pro-
vision of a telephone number. Conference bridging service
does not include the telecommunications services used to
reach the conference bridge.

(2 s)	“Detailed telecommunications billing ser-

vice” means an ancillary service of separately stating
information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s
billing statement.

01	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary ser-
vice of providing telephone number information, and/or
address information.

£41 “Vertical service” means an ancillary service
that is offered in connection with one or more teleconimu- .
nications services, which offers advanced calling features
that allow customers to identify callers and-to manage
multiple calls and- call connections, including conference
. bridging services.

£5} “Voice mail service” means an ancillary ser-
vice that enables the customer to store, send or receive
recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include
anv vertical services that the customer may be required to
have in order to utilize the voice mail service

£b} “Ancillary video .services” means services that
are associated with or incidental to the provision or deliv-
ery of video services, including but not limited to electron-
ic program guide services, recording services, search func-
tions. or other interactive services or communications that
are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or
enjoyment of video services.

(cl “Billing address” shall mean the mailing
address of the service user where the service supplier sub-
mits invoices or hills for payment bv the customer.

(dl “City” shall mean the City of Albany.

(el “Communication services” means: “telecom-
munications services.” “ancillary telecommunication ser-
vices.” “video services’’ and “ancillary video services.”

(ft “Gas” shall mean natural or manufactured gas
or anv alternate hydrocarbon fuel which may be substitut-
ed therefor.

(gl “Mobile telecommunications service” has the

meaning and usage as set forth in the Mobile Telecommu-
. nications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 1241 arid the reg-
ulations thereunder.

(hi “Month” shall mean a calendar month.

£i) “Non-Utilitv Service1 Supplier” means:

(11 a service supplier, other than a supplier of electric
distribution services to all or a significant portion of the
Citv. which generates electricity for sale to others, and
■ shall include but is not limited to anv publicly-owned
electric utility, investor-owned utility, cogenerator, dis-
tributed generation provider, exempt wholesale gener-
ator (15 U.S.C. Section 797-5a), municipal utility dis^

Administrator
4-11.16 Records
4-11.17 Refunds
4-11.18 Appeals

4-11.19 No Injunction/Writ of Mandate .
4-11.20 Notice of Changes to Article
4-11.21 Future Amendment to Cited Statute

trict. federal power marketing agency, electric rural
cooperative, or other supplier or seller of electricity: .
(21 an electric service provider (ESP!. electricity bro-
ker. marketer, aggregator, pool operator, or other elec-
tricity supplier other than a supplier of electric distrib-
ution services to all or a significant portion of the Citv.
which sells or supplies electricity or supplemental ser-
vices to electricity users within the Citv: or
131 a gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or bro-
ker. other than a supplier of gas distribution services to
all or a significant portion of the Citv. which sells or
supplies gas or supplemental services to gas users
within the Citv.

ij) “Paging service” means a “telecommunica-
tions service” that provides transmission of coded radio
signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers: such
transmissions may include messages and/or sounds.

■ (k) “Person” shall mean, without limitation, anv
natural individual, firm, trust, common law trust, estate,
partnership of anv kind, association, syndicate, club, joint
stock company, joint venture, limited liability company.
corporation ('including foreign, domestic, and non-profit!,
municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the
City! cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other rep-
resentative appointed bv order of anv court. .

£1) “Place of primary use” means the street
address representative of where the customer’s use of the '
communications service primary occurs, which must be
the residential street address or the primary business street
address of the customer.

(mV “Post-paid telecommunication service” means
the telecommunication service obtained bv making a pay-
ment on a communication-by-communicatiOn basis either
through the use of a credit card or payment mechanism
such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card,
or by charge made to a service number which is not associ-
ated with the origination or termination of the telecommu-
nication service.

(nl “Prepaid telecommunication service” means
the right to access telecommunication services, which'
must be paid for in advance and which enables the origina-
tion of communications using an access number or autho-
rization code, whether manually or electronically dialed,
and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which
the number declines with use in a known amount.

(0s) “Private telecommunication service” means a
telecommunication service that entitles the customer to '
exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or
group of channels between or among termination points,
regardless of the manner in. which such channel or chan-
nels are connected, and includes switching capacity-
extension lines, stations, and any other associated services
that are provided in connection with the use of such chan-
nel or channels. A communications channel is a physical
or virtual path of communications over which signals are
transmitted between or among customer channel termina-
tion points (i. e.. the location where the customer either
inputs or receives the communications!.

(pi “Service address” means the residential street

address or the business street address of the service user.
For a telecommunication or video service user, “service
address” means either:

(11 The location of the service user’s communica-
tion equipment from which the communication originates
or terminates, regardless of where the communication is
billed or paid: or.

(21 If the location in Subsection (11 of this defini-
tion is unknown (e.g.. mobile telecommunications service
or VoIP servicel. the service address means the location of
the service user’s place of primary use.

(31 For prepaid telecommunication service, “ser-
vice address” means the, location associated with the ser-
vice number or. if not known, the point of sale of the ser- .
vices. .

(ql “Service supplier” shall mean anv entity or
person, including the City, that provides utility service to a
user of such service within the Citv.

. {r} “Service user” shall mean a person required to
pav a tax imposed under the provisions of this Chapter.

(si “State” shall mean the State of California. .

£t) “Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement”
means the multi-state agreement commonly known and
referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agree-
ment. as it is amended from time to time.

(ul “Tax Administrator” shall have the Finance
Director, or his or her designee.

(vl “Telecommunications service” means the
transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio,
video, or any other information or signals to a.point, or
between or among points, whatever the technology used.
The term “telecommunications services” includes such
transmission, conveyance, or. routing in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, code
or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission,
conveyance or routing without regard to whether such ser-
vices are referred to as. voice over internet protocol (VoIPl
services or are classified by the Federal Communications
Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes
video and/or data services that is functionally integrated
with ‘‘telecommunication services.” “Telecommunications
services” include, but are not limited to the following ser-
vices. regardless of the manner or basis on which such ser-
vices are calculated or billed: ancillary telecommunication
services: intrastate, interstate, and international telecom-
munication services: mobile telecommunications service:
prepaid telecommunication service: post-paid telecommu-
nication service: private telecommunication service: pag-
ing service: 800 service (or anv other toll-free numbers
designated bv the Federal Communications Commission!:
900 service (or anv other similar numbers designated bv
the Federal Communications Commission for services
whereby subscribers who call in to pre-recorded or live
service!.

(wl “Video programming” means those program-
ming services commonly provided to subscribers by a
“video service supplier.” including but not limited to basic
services, premium services, audio services, video games.

pay-per-view services, video on demand, origination pro-
gramming. or anv other similar services, regardless of the
content of such video programming, or the technology
used to deli ver such services, and regardless of the manner
or basis on which such services are calculated or hilled.

(X) “Video services” means “video programming”
and anv and all services related to the providing, record-
ing. delivering, use or enjoyment of “video programming”
(including origination programming and programming
using Internet Protocol, e.g.. IPrTV and IP-Video) using
one or more channels by a “video service supplier.”
regardless of the technology used to deliver, store or pro-
vide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis
on which such services are calculated or billed, and
includes ancillary video services, data services, “telecom-
munication services.’’ or interactive communication ser-
vices that are functionally integrated with “video ser-
vices.”	■	-	'

(v) “Video service supplier” means any person,
company, or service which provides or sells one or more
channels of video programming, or provides or sells the
capability to receive one or more channels of video'pro-
gramming: including any communications that are ancil-
lary. necessary orcommon to the provision, use or eniov-
ment of the video programming, to or from a business or
residential address in the Citv. where some fee* is paid.
whether directly or included in dues or iental charges for
that service, whether or not public rights-of-waV are uti-
lized in the delivery of the video programming or commu-
nications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not
limited to. multichannel video programming distributors
fas defined in 47 U.S.C:A. Section 522(13)): open video
systems (QVS) suppliers: and suppliers of cable televi-
sion: master antenna television: satellite master antenna
television: multichannel multipoint distribution services
(MMDS'): video services using internet protocol (eLg.. TP-
TV and IP-Video, which provide, among other things,
broadcasting -and video on demand}, direct broadcast
satellite to the extent federal.law permits taxation of its
video services, now or in the future: and othersuppliers of
video services (including two-wav communications').
whatever their technology.

fz) “VoIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol')” means
the digital process of making and receiving real-time voice
transmissions over anv Internet Protocol network.

(aa) • “800 Service” means a “telecommunications
service” that allows a caller to dial a toll-free number
without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typi-
cally marketed under the name “800.” “855.” “866;”
“877.” and “888” toll-free calling, and anv subsequent
numbers designated bv the Federal Communications
Commission.

(bb) “900 Service” means an inbound toll “telecom-
munications service” purchased bv a subscriber that
allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the sub-
scriber’s prerecorded announcement or live service. “900
service” does not include the charge for: collection ser-
vices provided bv the seller of the “telecommunications
services” to the subscriber, or service or product sold bv

5

£

■ I

the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is •
typically marketed under the name “900” service, and anv *
subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Commnni- 1
cations Commission.

4-11.3 Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions. \

fa) Nothing in this Section shall be construed as impos-
ing a tax upon anv person or service when the imposition	;

of such tax upon such person or service would be in viola-	!

tion of a Federal or State statute, the Constitution of the
United States or the Constitution of the State.

(b) Anv service user that is exempt from the tax
imposed bv this Section pursuant to subsection (a~) of this \
Subsection shall file an application with the Tax Adminis-
trator for an exemption: provided, however, this require- :
ment shall not apply to a service user that is a State or Fed-
eral agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized
name for such service. Said application shall be made
upon a form approved bv the Tax Administrator and shall
state those facts, declared under penalty of periurv. which
qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall include
the names of all service suppliers serving that service user.

If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service
user shall give the Tax Administrator timely written notice
of anv change in service suppliers so that the Tax Admin-
istrator can properly notify the new service supplier of the
service user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to
comply with this Section shall not be entitled to a refund
of a users’ tax collected and remitted to the Tax Adminis-
trator from such service user as a result of such noncom-
pliance.	.	.

The decision of the Tax Administrator mav be
appealed pursuant to Subsection 4-11.18 of this Chapter.
Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and
appeal to the City Administrator or .designee, pursuant to
Subsection 4-11.18 of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a
suit thereon.

(c~) The City Council mav. bv resolution, establish one
or more classes of persons or one or more classes of utility
service otherwise subject to payment of a tax imposed hv
this chapter and provide that such classes of persons or
service shall be exempt, in whole or in part from such tax
for a specified period of time.

(d) The tax imposed under Sections 4-11.5 and 4-11.7
shall not apply to the use of solar or wind energy provided
bv an “eligible customer-generator” as defined in Public
Utilities Code Section 2827(b)(4): nor shall the tax apply
to the use of solar or wind energy provided by a residential
service user, who is not interconnected to the electric grid.

The tax imposed under Sections 4-11.5 and 4-11.7. how-
ever. shall apply to charges for electricity and supplemen- '
tal service Tas described in-Section 4.11.5(a) and (b)l.
which are provided by a service supplier or non-utilitv ser-
vice supplier to such customers oh a standby or supple-
mental basis.

4-11.4 Communication Users’ Tax
£a) There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in
the Citv using communication services. The tax imposed
bv this Section shall be at the rate of six arid one-half per-
cent (6.5%) of the charges made for such services and

shall he collected from the service user bv the communica-
tion services supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebut-
table presumption that communication services, which are
billed to a hilling or service address in the City, are used;
in whole nr in part, within the City’s boundaries, and such
services are subject to taxation under this Section'. There is
also a rebuttable presumption that prepaid telecommunica-
tion services sold within the city are used, in whole or in
part, within the City and are therefore subject to taxation
under this Section. If the billing address of the service user
is different from the service address, the service address of
the service user' shall be used for purposes of imposing the
tax. As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall
include the value of anv other services, credits, property of
every kind or nature, or other consideration, provided bv
the service user in exchange for the communication ser-
vices.

(bl “Mobile telecommunications service” shall be
sourced in accordance with the sourcing rules set forth in
the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C.
Section 1241, The Tax Administrator may issue and dis-
seminate to communication service suppliers, which are
subject to the tax collection requirements of this Section-
sourcing rules for the taxation of other communication
services, including but not limited to post-paid communi-
cation services, prepaid communication services. VoIP.
and private communication services, provided that such
rules are based upon custom arid common practice that
further administrative efficiency and minimize multi juris-
dictional taxation (e.g.. Streamlined Sales and Use Tax
Agreement!.

(cl The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate
to communication service suppliers, which are subject to
the tax collection requirements of this Section, an admin-
istrative ruling identifying those communication services.

. nr charges therefore! that are subject to or not subject to
the tax of subsection (a) above.	1

(dl As used in this Section, the term “telecommunica-
tion services” shall include, but is not limited to. charges
for: connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or
change of telecommunication services: late payment fees:
detailed hilling: central office arid custom calling features
('including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding-
caller identification and three-way callingl: voice mail and
other messaging services: directory assistance: access and
line charges: universal service charges: regulatory, admin-
istrative and other cost recovery charges: local number
portability charges: and text and instant messaging:
“Telecommunication services” shall not include digital
downloads that are not “ancillary telecommunication ser-
vices.” such as music, ringtones, games, and similar digi-
tal products.

(el Charges for communication services (videol shall
include, hut are not limited to. charges for the following:
.L Regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise
fees and access fees (PEGl:

2.	Initial installation of equipment necessary
for provision and receipt of video services:

i Late fees, collection fees, bad debt recover-

ies. and return check fees:

4.	Activation fees, reactivation fees, and recon-
nection fees:

Video programming and video services:

£. Ancillary video services (e.g.-. electronic
program guide services, recording functions, search func-
tions, or other interactive services or communications, that
are ancillary, necessary or common to the use or enjoy-
ment of video services!:

7.	Equipment leases (e.g.. remote, recording or
search devices, converters, remote devices!: arid.

8.	Service calls, service protection plans, name
changes, changes of services, and special services-

£f} , To prevent actual multi jurisdictional taxation of
communication services subject to tax under this Section,
anv service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that
the service user has previously paid the same tax in anoth-
er state or city on such communication services, shall be
allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of
the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state
or city : provided, however, the amount Of credit shall not
exceed the tax owed to the City under this Section.
fgl The tax on communication services imposed bv this
Section shall be collected from the service user bv the ser-
vice supplier. In the case of video service, the service user
shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video ser-
vice (e.g.. an apartment owner!. unless such service is
resold to individual users, in which case the service-user
shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video service. The
amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted to
the Tax Administrator, and must be received bv the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth (20thl daV of the
following month,

4-11.5 Electricity Users Tax.

(al There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person
using electricity in the City. The tax imposed bv this Sec-
tion shall be at the rate of seven percent (7%1 Of the
charges made for such electricity, and for anv supplemen-
tal services or other associated activities directly related to
and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the ser-
vice user, which are provided by a service supplier or non-
utility service supplier to a service user. The tax shall be
collected from the service user bv the service supplier or
non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent.

(bl As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall
apply to all services, components and items that are: il
necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment
of electric service: or. iil currently are or historically have
been included in a single or bundled rate for electric ser-
vice bv a local distribution company to a class of retail
customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not
limited to. the following charges:

(II energy charges:

(21 distribution or transmission charges:

(31 metering charges:

(41 stand-by’ reserves, firming, ramping, voltage
support, regulation, emergency, or other similar
charees for supplemental services to self-genera-

tion service users:

(51 customer charges, late charges, service estab-
lishment or reestablishment charges, demand
charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power
exchange charges, independent system operator
(ISO') charges, stranded investment or competitive
transition charges (CTO, public purpose program
charges, nuclear decommissioning charges, trust
transfer amounts (bond financing charges'), fran-
chise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and month-
ly charges, and other charges, fees or surcharges
which are necessary for or common to the receipt.

use or enjoyment of electric service: and.

(61 charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity ser-
vices or programs which are mandated by the Cali-
fornia Public Utilities Commission or the Federal.
Energy Regulatory Commission, whether or. not
such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bun-
dled or line item basis on the customer billing.

(cl As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall
include the value of anv other services, credits, property of
every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by
the service user in exchange for the electricity or services
~ related to the provision of such electricity.

(dl The Tax Administrator, from time to time, mav sur-
vey the electric service suppliers to identify the various
unbundled billing components of electric retail service
that they commonly provide to residential and commer-
cial/industrial customers in the of the Citv. arid the charges
therefor, including those items that are mandated bv state
or federal regulatory agencies as a Condition of providing
such electric service. The -Tax Administrator, thereafter.
mav issue and disseminate to such electric service suppli-
ers an administrative ruling identifying those components
and items which are: il necessary for or Common to the
receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service: or. iil current-
ly are or historically have been included in a single or bun-
dled rate for electric service bv a local distribution compa-
nv to a class of retail customers. Charges for such compo-
nents and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (a)
above.

fe~) As used in this Section, the term “using electricity”
shall not include the mere recei ving of such electricity by
an electrical corporation or governmental agency at a
point within the City for resale.

(f)	. The tax on electricity provided by self-production

or by a non-utilitv. service supplier not under the jurisdic-
tion of this Section shall be collected and remitted in the
manner set forth in Subsection 4-11.7 of this Section. All
other taxes on charges for electricity imposed bv this Sec-
tion shall be collected from the service user by die electric
service supplier or its hilling agent. The amount of tax col-
lected in one (11 month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator, and must he received bv the Tax Adminis-
trator on or before the twentieth (20th') day of the follow-
ing month: or. at the option of the person required to col-
lect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an esti-
mated amount of tax measured bv the tax billed in the pre-
vious month or upon the payment pattern of the service

user, which must be received by the Tax Administrator on
or before the twentieth (20th') dav of the following month-
provided that such person shall submit an adjusted pay-
ment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60!
days following, each calendar quarter. The credit, if
approved by the Tax Administrator, mav be applied
against any subsequent remittance that becomes due.

4-11.6 Gas Users Tax.

(al There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person
using gas in the City, which is transported and delivered
through a.pipeline or by mobile transport. The tax imposed
bv this Subsection shall be at the rate of seven percent
(7%1 of the charges made for such gas, including all ser-
vices related to the storage, transportation and delivery of
such gas. The tax shall be collected from the service user
bv the service supplier or non-utilitv service supplier, or
its hilling agent, and shall apply to all uses of gas, includ-
ing but not limited to. heating, electricity generation, and’
the use of gas as a component of a manufactured product.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the charges made for the
baseline rate usage approved bv the California Public Util-
ities Commission for gas furnished to a residential service
user shall he exempt from the tax levied bv this Subsection
4-11.6.

(b) As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall
apply to all services: components and items for gas service
that are: il necessary for or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment1 of gas service: or. iil currently are or historical-
ly have been included in a single or bundled rate for gas
service bv a local distribution company to a class of retail
customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not
limited to. the following charges:

(11 the commodity charges for purchased gas, or the
cost of gas owned bv the service user (including the
actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lift-
ing, storage. gathering, trunkline: pipeline, and
other operating costs associated with the produc-
tion and delivery of such gasl. which is delivered
through a gas pipeline distribution system:

(21 gas transportation charges (including interstate
charges to the extent not included' in commodity
chargesl:

(31 storage charges: provided, however, that the ser-
vice supplier shall not be required to apply the tax
to any charges for gas storage services when the
service supplier cannot, as a practical matter, deter-
mine the jurisdiction where such stored gas is ulti-
mately used: but it shall be the obligation of the ser-
vice user to self-collect the amount of tax not
applied to anv charge for gas storage by the service
supplier and to remit the tax to the appropriate
jurisdiction:

(41 capacity or demand charges, late charges, ser-
vice establishment or reestablishment charges, tran-
sition charges, customer charges, minimum charges,
annual and monthly charges, and any other charges
which are necessary for or common to the receipt,
use or enjoyment of gas service: and.

(51 charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or

ABMO-7

programs which are mandated bv the .California
Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, whether or not such
charges: fees, or. surcharges appear on a bundled or
line item basis on the customer billing.

£c) As used in this Section, the term “charges” shall
include the value of any other services, credits: property of
every kind or nature, or other consideration provided bv
the service user in exchange for the gas or services related
to the delivery of such gas.

{d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may sur-

vey the gas service suppliers to identify the various unbun-
dled billing components of gas retail service that they
commonly provide to residential and commercial/industri-
al customers in the City, and the charges therefor, includ-
ing those items that are mandated by state or federal regu-
latory agencies as a condition of providing such gas ser-
vice. The Taix Administrator, thereafter, may issue and dis-
seminate to such gas 'service suppliers am administrative
ruling identifying those components and items which are:
il necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoy-
ment of gas service: or. iil currently are or historically
have been included in a single or bundled rate for gas ser-
vice hv a local distribution company to a class of retail
customers. Charges for such components and items shall
be subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

£e) There shall be excluded from the calculation of the
tax imposed in this Section, charges made for gas which is
to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution
.system,

(TV . The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a
non-utility service supplier not under the jurisdiction of
this Section 4-11 shall be collected and remitted in the
manner set forth in Subsection 4-11.7. All other taxes on
charges for gas imposed bv this Section shall be collected
from the service user by the gas service supplier or its
hilling agent. The amount of tax collected in one (11
month shall he remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must
be received by the Tax Administrator, on of before the
twentieth f20ttr) day of the following month: or. at the
option of the person required to collect and/or remit the
tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax
measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon
the payment pattern of the service user, which must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twenti-
eth t20tht day of the following month, provided that such
person shall submit an adjusted payment or request for
credit, as appropriate, within sixty C601 davs following
each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved bv the Tax
Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent
remittance that becomes due.

4-11.7 Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving
Direct Purchase of Gas or Electricity.

('a') Anv service user subject to the tax imposed bv Sub-
section 4-11.5 or bv Subsection 4-11.6 of this Section.
which produces gas or electricity for self-use except as
exempted in 4-11.3:- which receives gas or electricity:
including anv related supplemental services, directly from
a non-utilitv service supplier not under the jurisdiction of

this Section: or which, for anv other reason, is not having
the full tax collected and remitted bv its service supplier, a
non-utilitv service supplier, or its billing agent on the use
of gas or. electricity in the City, including any related sup-
plemental services, shall report said fact to the Tax Admin-
istrator and shall remit the tax due directly to the Tax
Administrator within thirty ('30') days of such use, based on
the charges for, or value of. such gas or electricity, or sup-
plemental services, as provided in Subsection fbT In lieu
of paving said actual tax, the service user may, at its
option, remit to the Tax Administrator within thirty-130')
davs of such use an estimated amount of tax measured by
the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the payment
pattern of similar customers of the service supplier using
. similar amounts of gas or electricity, provided that the ser-
vice user shall submit an adjusted payment or request for
credit, as appropriate, within sixty 1601 days following
each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved hv the Tax
Administrator in writing, mav be applied against any sub-
sequent tax bill that becomes due.

(b) The Tax Administrator may require said service
user to identify its non-utilitv service supplier, and other-
wise provide, subject to audit: invoices: books of account:
or other satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of
gas or electricity used, including any related supplemental
services, and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is
unable to provide such satisfactory evidence, or if the
administrative cost of calculating the tax in the opinion of
the Tax Administrator is excessive, the Tax Administrator
mav determine the tax by applying the tax rate to the
equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if
the gas or electricity used, including any related supple-
mental services. had been provided by the service supplier
that is the primary supplier of gas or electricity within the
City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available
from the City

4-11.8 Bundling Taxable Items

If anv nontaxable charges are combined with and not sep-
arately stated from taxable service charges on the cus-
tomer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined
charge is subject to tax unless the service supplier identi-
fies. bv reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of
the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable
through the service supplier’s books and records kept in
the regular course of business, and in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and not created
and maintained for tax purposes. If the service supplier
offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable services,
and the charges are separately stated, then for taxation pur-
poses. the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable ser-
vices shall he based on its books and records kept in the
regular course of business and in accordance with general-
ly accepted accounting principles, and not created and
maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the
burden of proving the proper valuation and apportionment
of taxable and non-taxable charges.

4-11.9 Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to

collect and remit a tax under this Section, “substantial

nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broad-
ly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance
of the utility users’ tax to the fullest extent permitted by
State and Federal law, and as it mav change from time to
time bv judicial interpretation or bv statutory enactment.
Anv communication service (including VoIP) used by a
person with a service address in the City, which service is
capable of terminating a call to another person on the gen-
eral telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable
presumption that “substantial nexus/minimutn contacts”
exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a
duty to collect and remit a tax, under this Chapter. A ser-
vice supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in
the City for tax collection and remittance purposes if its
activities include, but are not limited to. anv of the follow-
ing: maintains or has within the Citv. directly or through
an agent or subsidiary, a place of business of anv nature:
solicits business in the Citv by employees, independent
contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives:
solicits business in the Citv on a continuous, regular, sea-
sonal or systematic basis bv means of advertising that is
broadcast or relayed from a transmitter with the City, or
distributed from a location with the City: or advertises in
newspapers or other periodicals printed and published
within the City or through materials distributed in the Citv
by means other than the United States mail: or if there are
activities performed in the Citv on behalf of the service
supplier that are significantly associated with the service
supplier’s ability to establish and maintain a market in the
Citv for the provision of utility services that are subject to
a tax under this Section.

4-11.10 Duty to Collect Procedures
Cal Collection by Service Suppliers: The duty of ser-
vice suppliers to collect and remit the taxes, imposed by
the provisions of this Section shall be performed as fol-
lows:

('ll The tax shall be collected by service suppli-
ers insofar as practicable at the same time as. and aldng
with, the collection of the char ges made in accordance with
the regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where
the amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is
. less than the full amount of the charge and tax which was
accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of
both the charge and the tax shall he deemed to have been
paid. In those cases where a service user has notified the
service supplier of refusal to pav the tax imposed on said
charges. Subsection 4-11.14 shall apply.

(2) The duty of a service supplier to collect the
tax from a service user shall commence with the beginning
of the first regular billing period applicable to the service
user where all charges normally included in such regular
billing are subject to the provisions of this Section. Where
a service user receives more than one billing, one or more
being for different periods than another, the duty to collect
shall arise separately for each billing period,
fbl Filing Return and Payment: Each person required
by this Section to remit a tax shall file a return to the Tax
Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax Administra-
tor. on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax

collected shall be included with the return and filed with
the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized
to require such additional information as he or she deems
necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected.
and remitted in accordance with this Section. Returns are
due immediately upon cessation of business, for any reason.
Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Cbde Section 7284.6. the Tax
Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing
returns as confidential information that is exempt from the
disclosure provisions of the Public Records Act.

4-11.11 Collection Penalties-Service Suppliers.

Cal Taxes collected from a service user are delinquent
if not recei ved by the Tax Administrator on or before the
due date. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal
holiday, the return must be received bv the Tax Adminis-
trator on the first regular working dav following the week-
end or legal holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic
fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically
exchanging monies between financial accounts, made bv a
service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this
Subsection shall be considered timely if the transfer is ini-
tiated on or before the due date, and the transfer settles
into the City’s account on the following business dav.

(bl	If the person required to collect and/or remit the util-

ity usersr tax fails to collect the tax (by failing to properly
assess the tax on one or more services or charges on the cus-
tomer’s billing’) or fails to remit the tax collected on or
before the due date, the Tax Administrator shall attach a
penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of
fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is delinquent or
deficient in the remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate
of seventy-five one-hundredths percent (0.75%) per month,
or anv fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive
of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first
became delinquent, until paid.

(c) The Tax Administrator shall have the power to
impose additional penalties upon persons required to col-
lect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Sec-
tion for fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting
at the rate of fifteen percent 115 % 1 of the amount of the tax
collected aiid/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed
bv the Tax Administrator.

£d)	.	For	collection	purposes	only,	every	penalty	imposed

. and such interest that is accrued under the provisions of this
Section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be
paid.

fe) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Adminis-
trator mav. in his or her discretion, modify the due dates of
this Section to be consistent with anv uniform standards or
procedures that are mutually agreed upon bv other public
agencies imposing a utility users tax, or otherwise legally
established, to create a central payment location or mecha-
nism.

. 4t11.12 Actions to Collect

Any tax required to be paid bv a service user under the
provisions of this Section shall he deemed a debt owed bv
the service user to the Citv. Any such tax collected from a
service user which has not been remitted to the Tax
Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the Citv bv

the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer
be a debt of the service user. Any person owing money to
the City under the provisions of this Section shall be liable
to an action brought in the name of the City for the recov-
. erv of such amount, including penalties and interest as
provided for in this Section, along with any collection
costs incurred bv the City as a result of the person’s non-
compliance with this Section, including, but not limited to.
reasonable attorneys’ fees. Anv tax required to be collect-
ed by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an
unsecured priority excise tax obligation under 11 U. S.
CA. Section 507(a~)(8~)fC). Service suppliers who seek to
collect charges for service in bankruptcy proceedings shall
also include in anv such claim the ambunt of taxes due the
City for those services, unless the Taix Administrator deter-
mines that such duty is in conflict with anv federal or state
law, rule, or regulation or that such action would be
administratively impractical.

4-11.13 Deficiency Determination and Assessment-Tax
Application Errors.

fal The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency .
determination if he or she determines that anv person
required to pav or collect taxes pursuant to the provisions
of this Section has failed to pay., collect, and/or remit the
proper amount of tax bv improperly or failing to apply the
tax to one or more taxable services or charges. Nothing
herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this Subsection 4-11.13 if. in the opinr
ion of. the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or
enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(b\ The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such
deficiency determination to the person required to pav or
remit die tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the amount
of the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of seventv-five
one-hundredths percent ffl.75%1 per month, or any frac-
tion thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on
which the tax should have been received by the City. With-
in fourteen (141 calendar davs after the date of service of
such notice, the person may request in writing to the Tax-
Administrator for a hearing on the matter.

(cl If the person fails to request a hearing within the
prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency deter-
mination shall become a final assessment, and shall imme-
diately be due and owing to the City. If the person requests
a hearing, die Tax Administrator, shall cause the matter to
be set for hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirty
1301 days after receipt of the written request for hearing.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed
by the Tax Administrator to such person at least ten UP-)
calendar davs prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Admin-
istrator desires said person to produce specific records at
such hearing, such notice may designate the records
requested to be produced.

<c0 At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Adminis-
trator shall hear all relevant testimony ■ and evidence.

. including that of any other interested parties. At the discre-
tion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be contin-
ued from time to time for the purpose of allowing the pre-
sentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time

following the conclusion of the hearing, the Tax Adminis-
trator shall issue a final assessment for non-assessment!,
thereafter, by confirmin g, modifying or rejecting the origi-
nal deficiency determination, and shall mail a copy of such
final assessment to person owing the tax. The decision of
the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Sub-
sections 4-11.18 and 4-il.l5 of this Section. Filing an
application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the
City Administrator, or designee, pursuant to Subsection 4-
11.18 of this Section is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

Cel Payment of the final assessment shall become
delinquent if not received bv the Tax Administrator on or
before the thirtieth (30thl dav following the date of receipt
of the notice of final assessment. The penalty for delin-
quency shall be fifteen percent (15% ) on the total amount
of the assessment along with interest at the rate of seven-
ty-five one-hundredths percent (0.75%) per month, or anv
fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid. The
applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the
City seeking payment of a tax assessed under this Section
shall commence from the date of delinquency as provided
in this Subsection (el.

Yf> All notices under this Section mav be sent bv regu-
lar mail, postage prepaid, and shall be deemed received on
the third calendar dav following the date of mailing, as
established by a proof of mailing.

4-il.14 Administrative Remedy- Non-Paving Service
Users. .

{a) Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a
service user has deliberately withheld the amount of the
tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to
a person required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax
Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he
or she mav relieve such person of the obligation to collect
the taxes due under this Section from certain named ser-
vice users for specific billing periods. To the extent the
service user has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a
period of two (2) or more billing periods, the service sup-
plier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes
due. The service supplier shall provide the City with the
names and addresses of such service users and the
amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of this Sec-
tion. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administra-
tor institute proceedings under this Subsection 4-11.14 if.
in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collec-
tion or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(bl In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall
pay a delinquency penalty at the rate of fifteen percent
(15%') of the total tax that is owed, and shall pav interest at
the rate of seventv-five one-hundredths percent (0.15%)
per month, or anv fraction thereof, on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid,
('cl The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paving
service user that the Tax Administrator has assumed the
responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods
and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties
and interest. The notice shall be served on the service user
bv personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the

ABMO-10

United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the ser-
vice user at the address to which hilling was made by the
person required to collect the tax:, or. should the service
user have a change of address, to his or her last known
address.

(dl If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax
Administrator within thirty GO! days from the date of the
service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Administra-
tor mav impose ail additional penalty of fifteen percent
(15%) of the amount of the total tax that is owed.

4-11.15 Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax
Administrator.

(al The Tax Administrator shall have the power and
duty, and is hereby directed, to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this Section.

{b} The Tax Administrator mav adopt administrative
rules and regulations consistent with provisions of this
Section for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying
out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance
of the taxes herein imposed. The administrative ruling
shall not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax method-
ology as stated in this Section, or increase an existing tax,
except as allowed bv California Government Code Section
53750fhY2y A copy of such administrative rules and regu-
lations shall he on file in the Tax Administrator’s office. To
the'extent that the Tax Administrator determines that the
fax imposed under this chapter shall not be collected in
full for any period of time from any particular service sup-
plier’ or Service user, that determination shall be consid-
ered an exercise of the Tax Administrator’s discretion to
settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing
methodology for purposes of Government Code Section
53750 or otherwise. The Tax Administrator is not autho-
rized to amend the City’s methodology for purposes of
Government Code Section 53750 and the City does not
waive or abrogate its ability to impose the utility users’ tax
in full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or
. entering into agreements.

(cl Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax
Administrator may make administrative agreements, with
appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict require-
ments of this Section and thereby: (11 conform to the
hilling procedures of a particular service supplier so long
as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in
conformance with the general purpose and scope of this
Section: or. (21 to avoid a hardship where the administra-
tive costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh
the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on
file in the Tax Administrator’s office, and are voidable by
the Tax Administrator or the City at anv time.

(dl The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to
ensure proper compliance with the requirements of this
Section, of any person required to collect and/or remit a
tax pursuant to this Section. The Tax Administrator shall
notify said person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In
the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the
audit period of review shall not exceed a period of three
(31 years next preceding the date of receipt of the written
notice bv said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon

completion of the audit, the Tax Administrator may make
a deficiency determination pursuant to Subsection 4-11.13
of this Section for all taxes (and applicable penalties and
interestl owed and not paid, as evidenced bv information
provided bv such person to the Tax Administrator. If said
person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records
to enable the Tax Administrator to verify compliance with
this Section, the Tax Administrator is authorized to make a
reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable esti-
mate shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of cor-
rectness.

(el Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and
for good cause, the Tax Administrator mav extend the time
for filing any statement required pursuant to this Section
for a period of not to exceed forty-five (451 davs. provided
that the time for filing the required statement has not
already passed when the request is received. No penalty
for delinquent payment shall accrue bv reason of such
extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at
the rate of seventv-five one-hundredths percent (0.75%1
per month, prorated for anv portion thereof.

£0	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibili-

ty of anv person who asserts a right to exemption from, or
a refund of. the tax imposed bv this Section.

(gl Notwithstanding anv provision in this chapter to the
contrary, the Tax Administrator mav waive anv penalty or
interest imposed upon a person required to collect and/or
remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by this chapter
if the non-collection occurred in good faith. In determin-
ing whether the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax
Administrator shall take into consideration the uniqueness
. of the product or service, industry practice or other prece-
dence. The Tax Administrator mav also participate with
other UUT public agencies in conducting coordinated
compliance reviews with the goal of achieving administra-
tive efficiency and uniform tax application determinations,
where possible. To encourage full disclosure and on-going
cooperation on annual compliance reviews, the Tax
Administrator, and its agents, may enter into agreements
with the tax-collecting service providers and grant
prospective only effect on anv changes regarding the taxa-
tion of services or charges that were previously deemed by
the service provider, in good faith and without gross negli-
gence. to be non-taxable. In determining whether the non-
collection was in good faith and without gross negligence,
the Tax Administrator shall take into consideration the
uniqueness of the product or service, industry practice or
other precedence.

4-11.16 Records

(a} It shall be the duty of every person required to col-
lect and/or remit to the City anv tax imposed hv this Sec-
tion to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (31
years, all records as mav be necessary to determine the
amount of such, tax as he/she mav have been liable for the
collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator,
which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to
inspect at a reasonable time.

(bl The City may issue an administrative subpoena to
compel a person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator.

ABMO-11

copies of all records deemed necessary bv the Tax Admin-
istrator to establish compliance with this Section, includ-
ing the delivery of records in a common electronic format
on readily available media if such records are kept elec-
tronically by the person in ithe usual and ordinary course of
business. As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed
records to the Tax Administrator on or before the due date
provided in the administrative subpoena, such person may
provide access to such records outside the City on or
before the due date, provided that such person shall reim-
burse the City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred
hv the City to inspect those records, including travel, lodg-
ing. meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the
normal salary or hourly wages of those persons designated
bv the City to conduct the inspection.

(cl The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a
non-disclosure agreement approved bv the City Attorney
to protect the confidentiality of customer information pur-
suant to California Revenue and Tax Code Sections

7284.6	and 7284.7.

£d) If a service supplier uses a billing‘agent or billing
aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the service
supplier shall: 11 provide to the Tax Administrator the
name, address and telephone number of each billing agent
and billing aggregator currently authorized bv the service
supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the Citv:
and. 21 upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or
effect the delivery of. anv information or records in the
possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that.
in the opinion of the Tax Admifaistrator. is necessary to .
verify the proper application, calculation, collection
and/or remittance of such tax to the Citv.

(el • If any person subject to record-keeping under this
Section unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator access
to such records, or fails to produce the information
requested in an administrative subpoena within the time
specified, then the Tax Administrator mav impose' a penal-
ty of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.001 on such person for
each day following: 11 the initial date that the person
refuses to provide such access: or. 21 the due date for pro-
duction of records as set forth in the administrative sub-
poena. This penalty shall be in addition to anv other penal-
tv imposed under this Chapter.

4-11.17 Refunds

Whenever the amount of anv tax has been overpaid or paid
more than once or has been erroneously or illegally col-
lected or received bv the Tax Administrator under this Sec-
tion from a person or service supplier, it mav be refunded
as provided in this Section as follows:

£a) Written Claim for Refund: The Tax Administra-
tor mav refund any tax that has been overpaid or paid
more than once or has been erroneously or illegally col-
lected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Sec-
tion from a person or service supplier, provided that no
refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section
unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator.

. executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to
thie Tax Administrator within one year of the overpayment
or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim

ABMO-1Z

must clearly establish claimant’s right to the refund by
written records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing
herein shall permit the filing of a claim on behalf of a class
or group of taxpayers unless each member of the class has
submitted a written claim under penalty of perjury as pro-
vided bv this Subsection. It is the intent of the City Coun-
cil that the one year written claim requirement of this Sub-
section be given retroactive effect: provided, however, that
any claims which arose prior to the commencement of the
one year claims period of this Subsection, and which are
not otherwise barred bv a then applicable statute of limita-
tions or claims procedure, must be filed with the Tax Col-
lector as provided in this Subsection within ninety davs
following the effective date of this ordinance.

(bl Compliance with Claims Act: The filing of a writ-
ten claim pursuant to Government Code Section 935 is a
prerequisite to anv suit thereon. Anv action brought
against the City pursuant to this Section shall be subject to
the provisions of Government Code Sections 945.6 and .
946. The Tax Administrator, or the Citv Council where the
claim is in excess of Five Thousand Dollars ($5.000.001.
shall act upon the refund claim within the time period set
forth in Government Code Section 912.4. If the Tax
Administrator/City Council fails or refuses to act on a
refund claim within the time prescribed bv Government
Section 912.4. the claim shall be deemed to have been
rejected bv the Citv Council on the last day of the period
within which the Citv Council was required to act upon
the claim as provided in Government Code Section 912.4.
The Tax Administrator shall give notice of the action in a
form which substantially complies with that set forth in
Government Code Section 913.

(cl Refunds to Service Suppliers; Notwithstanding
the notice provisions of Subsection (al of this Section, the
Tax Administrator mav. at his or her discretion, give writ-
ten permission to a service supplier, who has collected and
remitted anv amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax
imposed by this Section, to claim credit for such overpay-
ment against the amount of tax which is due the Citv upon
a subsequent monthly returnfsl to the Tax Administrator-
provided that: 11 such credit is claimed in a return dated no
later than one year from the date of overpayment or erro-
neous collection of said tax: 21 the Tax Administrator is
satisfied that the underlying basis and amount of such
credit has been reasonably established: and. 31 in the case
of an overpayment bv a service user to the service supplier
that has been remitted to the Citv. the Tax Administrator
has received proof, to his or her satisfaction, that the over-
payment has been refunded bv the service supplier to the
‘service user in an amount equal to the requested credit.
4-11.18 Appeals

£a) The provisions of this Section apply to anv decision
(other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Sub-
section 4-11.17 of this Section!, deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Adminis-
trator. Any person aggrieved bv any decision (other than a
decision relating to a refund pursuant to Subsection 4-'
11.17 of this Section!, deficiency determination, assess-
ment. or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator.

shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of
this Section. Compliance with this Section shall be a pre-
requisite to a. suit thereon. (See Government Code Section
935(h!l. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim
or action on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

£b) If anv person is aggrieved by anv decision father
than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Subsection
4-11.17 of this Section'), deficiency determination, assess-
ment. or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator: he
or she, mav appeal to the City Administrator, or designee,
bv filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within
fourteen ('141 days of the date of the decision, deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the
Tax Administrator which aggrieved the service user or ser-
vice supplier.

('cl The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before ah
independent hearing officer selected by the City Adminis-
trator, or designee. no more than thirty (301 days from the
■ receipt of the appeal. The appellant, shall be served with
notice of the time and place of the hearing, as well as anv
relevant materials, at least five (51 calendar davs prior to
the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to
time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the
appealing party, the Tax Administrator, and anv other
1 interested person mav present such relevant evidence as he
or she mav have relating to the determination from which
the appeal is taken.

(dl Based upon the submission of such evidence and
the review of the City’s files, the hearing officer shall issue
a written notice and order upholding, modifying or revers-
ing the determination from which the appeal is taken. The
notice shall be given within fourteen (141 davs after the
conclusion of the hearing and shall'state the reasons for
the decision. The notice shall specify that the decision is
final and that any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within ninety 1901 davs from the date of the decision in
accordance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.
(el All notices under this Section may be sent bv regu-
lar mail. postage prepaid: and shall be deemed received on
the third calendar dav following the date of mailing, as
established bv a proof of mailing.

4-11.19 No Iniunction/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equi-
table process shall issue in anv suit, action, or proceeding
in any court against this City or against anv officer of the
City to prevent or. enjoin the collection under this Section
of anv tax or any amount of tax required to he collected
and/or remitted.

4-11.20 Notice of Changes to Ordinance. .

If a tax Under this Section is added repealed, increased.
reduced, or the tax base is changed, the Tax Administrator
shall follow the notice requirements of California Public
Utilities Code Section 799.

4-11.21 Effect of State and Federal Reference/Autho-
rization.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a
State or Federal' statute in this Section shall mean such
statute as it mav be amended from time to .time, provided

that such reference to a statute herein shall not include anv
subsequent, amendment thereto, or to any subsequent
change of interpretation thereto bv a State or Federal
agency or court of law with the duty to interpret such law.
to the extent that such amendment or change of interpreta-
tion would require voter approval under California law, or
to the extent that such change would result in a tax
decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of a utility
service, or charge therefor, from taxation!. Only to the
extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a tax
decrease would result, the prior version of the statute (or
interpretation! shall remain applicable: for any application
or situation that would not require voter approval or result
in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the amended statute
(or new interpretation! shall be applicable to the maximum
possible extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect
or impose any tax imposed under this Section is expanded
or limited as a result of changes in State or Federal law, no
amendment or modification of this Section shall be
required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax
shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the
authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed
utider this Section.

4-11.22 No Increase in Tax Percentage or Change in
Methodology Without Voter Approval. Amendment or
Repeal.

Section 4-11 of the Albany Municipal Code mav he
repealed or amended bv the City Council without a vote of
the People. However, as required bv Article XI1TC of the
California Constitution, voter approval is required for any
amendment provision that would increase the rate of. anv
tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance. The People of the
City of Albany affirm that the following actions shall not
constitute an increase of the rate of a ta x:

(11 The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate
that is no higher than that set by this Ordinance, if the City
Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax:

(21 An action that interprets or clarifies .the method-
ology of the tax: or any definition applicable to the tax, so
long as such interpretation or clarification (even if con-
trary to some prior interpretation or clarification! is not
inconsistent with the language of this Ordinance: and
(31 The establishment a class of persons that is
exempt or excepted from the tax or the discontinuation of
anv such exemption or exception (other than the discontin-
uation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth
in this Ordinance!: and

(41 The collection of the tax imposed bv this ordi-
nance. even if the City had, for some period of time, failed
to collect the tax.

4-11.23 Independent Audit of Tax Collection. Exemp-
tion. Remittance, and Expenditure.

The. City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under
this Section have been properly applied, exempted, col-
lected. and remitted in accordance with this Section, and
properly expended according to applicable municipal law.
The annual verification shall be performed bv a qualified
independent third party and the review shall employ rea-

ABMO-13

sonable. cost-effective steps to assure compliance, includ-
ing. the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not
be required of tax remitters where the cost of the verifica-
tion may exceed the tax revenues to be reviewed.

4-11.24 Remedies Cumulative

All remedies and penalties prescribed bv this Section or
which are available under any other provision of law nr
equity, including but not limited to the California False
Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and
the California Unfair Practices Act (Business and Profes-
sions Code Section 17070 et seq.). are cumulative. The use
of one or more remedies bv the City shall not bar the use
of anv other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the pro-
visions of this Chapter.

4-11.25 Interaction With Prior Tax.

Cal Satisfaction of Tax Obligation bv Service Users:
Anv person who pavs the tax levied pursuant to Section 4-.
11 of this Code with respect to any charge for a gas, elec-
tric. or communication service shall be deemed to have
satisfied his or her obligation to pav the tax levied pur-
suant to Section 4-4 of this Code with respect to that
charge. Likewise, prior to April 1. 2011. anv person who
pavs the tax levied pursuant to Section 4-4 of the Albany
Municipal Code with respect to any charge for a service
subject to taxation pursuant to this Section 4-11 shall be
deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pav the
tax levied pursuant to Section 4-11 of this Code with
respect to that charge. The intent of this paragraph is to
prevent the imposition of multiple taxes upon a single util-
ity charge during the transition period from the prior utili-
ty users tax to the new utility users’ tax (which transition
period ends April 1. 20111 and to permit service providers.
during that transition period, to satisfy their collection
obligations bv collecting either tax.

(bV Collection of Tax bv Service Providers: Service
providers shall begin to collect the tax imposed bv this
Section as soon as feasible after the effective date of the
Section, but in no event later than permitted by Section
• 799 of the California Public Utilities Code.

(cl Judicial Determinations: In the event that a final
court order should determine that the election enacting this
Section 4-11 is invalid for whatever reason, or that anv tax
imposed under this Section 4-11 is invalid in whole or in
part, then the taxes imposed under Section 4-4 (unless
repealed! shall automatically continue to apply with
respect to anv service for which the tax levied pursuant to
this Section has been determined to be invalid. Such auto-
matic continuation shall be effective beginning as of the
first date of service tor billing date! for which the tax
imposed hv this Section is not valid. However, in the event
of an invalidation, any tax (other than a tax that is ordered
refunded by the court ot is otherwise refunded bv the Citvl
paid hv a person with respect to a service and calculated
pursuant to this Section shall be deemed to satisfy the tax
imposed under Section 4-4 on that service, so long as the
tax is paid with respect to a service provided no later than
six months subsequent to the date on which the final court
order is published.

SECTION 2. Effective Date. This chapter, if approved by

the electorate of the City of Albany at the General Munic-
ipal Election of November 2, 2010 shall become effective
immediately upon the declaration of the results of that
election by the City Council of the City of Albany.
SECTION 3. Severability. If any Section, Subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is for
any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court
of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this
Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and
effect. The People hereby declares that they would have
adopted each Section, Subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more Sections, Subsections, sentences,.
clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be declared
invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 4. Ratification of Prior Tax. The People of the
City of Albany hereby ratify and approve the past collec-
tion of the Telephone Users Tax and the Cable Television
Users Tax under Chapter 4-4 of the Albany Municipal
Code as it existed'prior to the. effective date of this Ordi-
nance.

SECTION 5. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized
to attest to the adoption of the Ordinance by the voters of
the City by signing where indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was
PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED by the People of
the City of Albany, California voting on the 2nd day
of November, 2010.

ABMO-14