VOID

ORDINANCE 404

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF SOLANA BEACH, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING THE
SOLANA BEACH MUNICIPAL CODE TO ADD CHAPTER
3.44 - BUSINESS TAX	,

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to establish a general/tax, as authorized
under Article XIII C of the California Constitution, and if approved Joy the majority of the
voters would take effect ten (10) days after the City Council approves the certification of
the election results; and	/

WHEREAS, Section 2(b) of Article XIII C of the California Constitution requires
that a general tax be submitted to the voters and approved at a regularly scheduled
general election unless a fiscal emergency is declared by unanimous vote of the
governing body; and	/

WHEREAS, the City Council, by unanimous vote, adopted Resolution 2009-064
on May 27, 2009 declaring a fiscal emergency? and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters on June 8, 2010 a
measure seeking approval of a general tax for revenue purposes, to be called the
“Business Tax Ordinance”; and /

WHEREAS, Government/Code section 53724(b) requires a two-thirds vote of all
the members of the legislativejDody of the local government to enact general taxes; and

WHEREAS, a majority vote of voters voting in an election on a general tax is
required for its approval/under Government Code section 53723; and

WHEREAS,/if approved by the voters, the Business Tax Ordinance establishes
and implements/& Business Tax in the City of Solana Beach to increase locally-
controlled revenue for general City services and operations, including but not limited to
law enforcen'fent, fire, parks and recreation, street repairs, and capital improvement
program projects.

/NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOLANA BEACH
DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

VOID - Ord (Prop L) vote failed

at the 06-08-2010 election.

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 2010
Page 2 of 16,

SECTION 1. The Solana Beach Municipal Code is hereby amended to

Chapter 3.44 as follows:

Sections:

3.44.010

3.44.020

3.44.030

3.44.040

3.44.050

3.44.060

3.44.070

3.44.080

3.44.090

3.44.100

3.44.110

3.44.120

3.44.130

3.44.140

3.44.150

3.44.160

3.44.170

3.44.180

3.44.190

3.44.200

3.44.210

3.44.220

3.44.230

3.44.240

3.44.250

3.44.260
3.44.27J

3.44.260
3.44290
3^4.300
L44.310

'3.44.320
3.44.330

“Chapter 3.44
BUSINESS TAX’

Title.

Purpose.

Receipt/Certificate and Tax Payment Require
Scope of Privilege Conferred.

Definitions.

Tax Rates and Business Classifications
Calculation of Initial Business Tax.

Calculation of Renewal Business Ts
Adjustments to Business Tax.

Waiver/Suspension.

Exemption.

Business Tax Receipt/Certifi^te Required for Each Activity at
Location.

Application Required.

Review upon Application and Change of Address.

Issuance of Business Tax Receipt/Certificate.

Terms of Business Tax Receipts/Certificates and Delinquency.
Penalties for Delinquency.

Refunds.

Display of Busirfess Tax Receipts/Certificates.

Assessment m Tax upon Failure to Procure Business Tax
Receipt/Certificate.

Evidence of Doing Business/Engaging in Business.

Audits arid Adjustments.

Examipfation of Books, Records, Information Confidential.
Decimation-Confidential Documents.

Nontransferability of Business Tax Receipts/Certificates -
ities upon Transfer of Business
Change of Address or Ownership.

Notice.

Constitutional Apportionment.

Tax Apportioned for Intercity Business-Computation.
Violations.

Delinquent Business Tax Constitutes Debt to the City.
Remedies Cumulative.

Severability.

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 2010
Page 3 of 1&

3.44.010 Title.	/

This Chapter shall be known as the "Business Tax Ordinance" of the City of
Solana Beach (“City”).	/

3.44.020 Purpose.	/

This Chapter is enacted for the purpose of raising revenue foiygeneral municipal
purposes based on Persons who engage in Business in the City.. ./

3.44.030 Tax Payment Requirement.	/

No Person, either for him/herself or any other Personyshall operate any Business
specified in this Chapter in the City without first having obtained a Business Tax
Receipt/Certificate from the City to do so, or without complying with any and all
regulations of such business contained in this Chapter/and the carrying on of any such
Business without first having obtained a Business Tax Receipt/Certificate from the City
to do so, or without complying with any and all regulations of such business contained in
the Solana Beach Municipal Code (SBMC), shajj/constitute a separate violation of this
Chapter for each and every day that such business is so carried on.

3.44.040 Scope of Privilege Conferred /

The payment of the Business Tax required by this Chapter, and its acceptance
by the City, and the issuance of a Business Tax Receipt/Certificate to any Person shall
not entitle the Tax Receipt/CertificateTfolder thereof to carry on any Business unless he
or she has complied with all of the' requirements of the SBMC and all other applicable
laws, nor to carry on any business in any building or on any premises designated in
such Business Tax Receipt/Cenificate in the event that such building or premises are
situated in a zone or locality in which the conduct of such Business is in violation of any
law.	/

3.44.050 Definitions. /

A.	Wherever they appear in this Chapter, the following defined terms shall
have the meanings provided in this section, unless it is apparent from their context that
a different meaning is intended:

A.	"Agent" or "agency" shall mean a person who may act for, on behalf of,
or in^fhe place of another person with authority to bind that other party.

/	2. "Business" shall mean all activities engaged in or caused to be

/engaged in within the City, including any commercial or industrial enterprise,
/ trade, profession, occupation, vocation, calling or livelihood, including the rental
/ or lease of residential or nonresidential real estate and mobile home parks, or the

Ordinance 404 -Business TaX
February 24, 20X0
Page 4 ot 16

activities of independent contractors, whether or not carried on for gain or profit,
but shall not include the services rendered by an employee to his or her
employer.	/

3.	"Business Tax Receipt/Certificate” shall have the same meaning as

defined under Business and Professions Code section 161	as may be

amended from time to time. “Business Tax Receipt/Certificate” shall mean the
receipt or certificate issued under Section 3.44.150 to a taxpayer to evidence
payment of a tax prescribed by this Chapter, which is required to be posted or
displayed as evidence of a business's payment of the/fax. Upon City Council
action eliminating the regulatory fee associated with Title 4 of the SBMC with the
favorable vote enacting this Chapter, the term “Business Tax Receipt” as used in
this Chapter will be replaced with “Business Tax Certificate” and the same
meaning.	/

4.	"Business Tax," shall mean a tax imposed by this Chapter.

5.	“Doing Business” or "Engage in business" shall mean to commence,
operate, manage or carry on a business within the boundaries of the City for
which a Tax Receipt/Certificate iyrequired, and to exercise corporate or
franchise powers, whether done as an owner or by means of one or more
officers, agents, managers, employees, servants or otherwise, whether or not the
business is operated from a fixed location and whether or not such location is
within the boundaries of the CKy.

6.	"Gross Receipted for the purpose of calculating the Business Tax
owed under this Chapter shall be the amount which the greater of either (i) the
Gross Receipts earnep in the City , or (ii) the Operating Costs (as defined in this
Chapter) of the Bushrtess that are incurred in the City..

“Gross Receipts” shall have the same meaning as defined under
California Revenue and Taxation Code section 25120(f)(2) as may be amended
from time to time. "Gross Receipts" means the gross amounts realized (the sum
of money and the fair market value of other property or services received) on the
sale or exchange of property, the performance of services, or the use of property
or capital (including rents, royalties, interest, and dividends) in a transaction that
produces business income, in which the income, gain, or loss is recognized (or
wcWd be recognized if the transaction were in the United States) under the
Infernal Revenue Code, as applicable for purposes of this part. Amounts realized
'on the sale or exchange of property shall not be reduced by the cost of goods
sold or the basis of property sold. Gross Receipts, even if business income, shall
not include the following items:

(A)	Repayment, maturity, or redemption of the principal of a loan,
bond, mutual fund, certificate of deposit, or similar marketable instrument.

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 2010'
Page 5 of T6

(B)	The principal amount received under a repurchase agreement or

other transaction properly characterized as a loan.	/

(C)	Proceeds from issuance of the taxpayer's own stock oryfrom sale

of treasury stock.	/

(D)	Damages and other amounts received as the resul/f litigation.

(E)	Property acquired by an agent on behalf of anotjrter.

(F)	Tax refunds and other tax benefit recoveries/

(G)	Pension reversions.	/

(H)	Contributions to capital (except for sal/of securities by securities

dealers.	/

(I)	Income from discharge of indebtedness.

(J)	Amounts realized from exchanges of inventory that are not
recognized under the Internal Revenue Code.

(K)	Amounts received from transactions in intangible assets held in
connection with a treasury function/the taxpayer's unitary business and the
Gross Receipts and overall net /ins from the maturity, redemption, sale,
exchange, or other disposition o/hose intangible assets. For purposes of this
subparagraph, "treasury function" means the pooling, management, and
investment of intangible as/ts for the purpose of satisfying the cash flow
needs of the taxpayer's trafde or business, such as providing liquidity for a
taxpayer's business eye/ providing a reserve for business contingencies,
and business acquisitions, and also includes the use of futures contracts and
options contracts W hedge foreign currency fluctuations. A taxpayer
principally engage/in the trade or business of purchasing and selling
intangible assets/ the type typically held in a taxpayer's treasury function,
such as a registered broker-dealer, is not performing a treasury function, for
purposes of this subparagraph, with respect to income so produced.

(L)	/Amounts received from hedging transactions involving intangible
assets, //hedging transaction" means a transaction related to the taxpayer's
trading/notion involving futures and options transactions for the purpose of
hedgi/g price risk of the products or commodities consumed, produced, or
sold/oy the taxpayer.

Exclusion of an item from the definition of "Gross Receipts" shall not be
determinative of its character as business or non-business income.

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 2010,
Page 6 of 1/6

7.	"Holder of a Business Tax Receipt/Certificate" shall mean any Pefson

who holds a valid, current Business Tax Receipt/Certificate issued to that Person
under Section 3.44.150.	/

8.	“Home-Based Business” shall mean a Business primarily/operated in
the residence as an accessory use and incidental to a residential use. As used
in this Chapter, a Home-Based Business is the same as a home/occupation and
is subject to the regulations set forth under SBMC section yl.20.040 (A). A
home office is not considered a Home-Based Business subject to this Chapter
unless it is used as a primary place to conduct Business. /

9.	"Operating Costs" shall mean all the expenses/fncurred in the operation

of a Business, including, without limitation, the cost of/personnel, equipment and
supplies, rent, lease or mortgage payments, utilities/and any other cost of doing
business in the City. Operating Costs does not include the costs of goods
purchased or inventory on hand.	/

10.	"Person" shall have the same meaning as defined under California
Business and Professions Code section 302(d) as may be amended from time to
time. “Person” is defined as any domestic or foreign corporation, firm,
association, syndicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint
venture, club, business or common layv trust, society, individual, estate, receiver,
retirement plan, trustee, limited liability company , or any other group or
combination of individuals or entities, however organized, acting as a unit.

11.	"Tax Administratoryshall mean the City Manager or his or her

designee.	/

12.	"Taxpayer" shall have the same meaning as defined under California
Business and Professions Code section 16205 as may be amended from time to
time, “Taxpayer” is defined as every individual, person, firm, partnership, joint
adventure, association, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
syndicate, and artificial legal entity subject to or liable for a tax imposed by this
Chapter. /

3.44.060 Tax Rate? and Business Classifications.

A.	Except as provided in Subsections B and C and Section 3.44.110, every
Person who engages in Business within the City, whether or not at a fixed place of
Business, s^all pay a Business Tax. The Taxpayer can elect to pay the Business Tax
owed bas^a on the Flat Rate provided herein or the corresponding multiplier calculated
based on Gross Receipts as provided in this Section. For the purpose of calculating the
Business Tax owed under this Chapter, the Business Tax due shall be the amount
whicn the greater of either (i) the Gross Receipts earned in the City , or (ii) the
Operating Costs (as defined in this Chapter) of the Business that are incurred in the
City. The Business Tax is calculated as set forth in the Table A.1.

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 2010
Page 7 of 16

Table A.1

TIER	GROSS RECEIPTS	Option A - FLAT	Option B - / MULTIPLIER
1	$0 - $66,499	$50	- /
2	$66,500 - $99,999	$70	.009^75
3	$100,000-$999,999	$300	•9^0675
4	$1,000,000-$2,499,999	$650	/000425
5	$2,500,000 - $4,999,999	$1,100	/ .000325
6	$5,000,000 -	1,675	/ .00027

B.	Residential Property Rental. Any Person who engages in a business that
rents, leases, sublets, etc., five or more residential rental units shall pay an
annual Business Tax of $25.00 for each residential rental unit.

C.	Home-Based Business. Any Person who conducts a Home-Based Business
shall pay an annual Business Tax of $75.00:

3.44.070 Calculation of Initial Business Tax. /

A.	Upon the effective date of thiyChapter and no later than 90 days or by

October 15, 2010, whichever is later, all ^persons engaged in Business in City shall
apply for an initial Business Tax ReceipvCertificate under this Chapter and pay the
initial Business Tax due.	/

B.	Except as provided in/subsection C of this section, an applicant for an
initial Business Tax Receipt/Certifi^ate under this Chapter shall report on the application
required by Section 3.44.130 the actual or estimated Gross Receipts of the Business
received or incurred in the 2009 calendar year to allow calculation of the Business Tax
imposed by section 3.44.060/

1.	The Business Tax due for the first year that this Chapter is in effect
and implemented is fifty percent (50%) of the Business Tax that is owed.

2.	The initial Business Tax is due on October 15, 2010 or no later than 90
days after the effective date and shall become delinquent ninety (90) days thereafter
and the penalties of Section 3.44.170 shall then attach.

C.	An applicant for an initial Business Tax Receipt/Certificate under this
Chapter who/aid not engage in Business in the City until after June 9, 2010 shall file the
applicatioryequired by Section 3.44.130 and pay an initial Business Tax of seventy-five
dollars (&T5.00) prior to the first day of operation, and the Business Tax shall become

Ordinance 404 -Business/fax
February 24<^010
Page'o of 16

delinquent ninety (90) days thereafter and the penalties of Section 3.44.170/Shall then
attach.	/

3.44.080 Calculation of Renewal Business Tax.	/

A.	The Business Tax period shall start July 1st every year and conclude on

June 30th of the following year. The Business Tax shall be due an/a payable on July 1st
each year and shall become delinquent thirty (30) days thereafter and the penalties of
Section 3.44.170 shall then attach.	/

B.	Upon expiration of a Business Tax Receipt/Certificate, a Person engaged
in Business in the City, with the exception for Residential/Property Rentals and Home-
Based Businesses, shall report on the application required by Section 3.44.130 the
actual or estimated Gross Receipts of the Business during the previous calendar year to
allow calculation of the Business Tax imposed by section 3.44.060.

3.44.090 Adjustments to Business Tax Rate /

A.	The rate of the Business Tax due under this Chapter shall be adjusted

each year in April beginning in 2012, for tne Business Tax due July 1 to reflect the
percentage increase, if any, rounded to me nearest dollar, as measured by the United
States Department of Labor, Bureau of/Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index (“CPI”)
for the San Diego Region, California/Any adjustment shall be based on the previous
calendar year’s CPI. In addition the/Gross Receipts multiplier set forth in Table A1 will
be revised accordingly to conform/with the percentage increase of the flat/tiered rate. If
the CPI is discontinued, then the'City Council shall select another government index or
computation that purports to pleasure the cost of living or cost of doing business or
similar costs as were measured by the CPI in order to obtain substantially the same
result.	/

B.	Adjustments to increase the rate of the Business Tax pursuant to this
Section shall be made by resolution of the City Council amending this Chapter. Any
adjustment to the Business Tax made pursuant to this Section is based on the voter-
approved methodology set forth herein and is not subject to a new vote of the
electorate. /

C.	/Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (A) of this Section, no annual
adjustments of the Business Tax under this Section shall exceed two percent (2%).

3.44:100 Waiver/Suspension.

/ The City Council may, with a majority vote, on any given fiscal year, reduce or
suspend the requirements of this Chapter temporarily. No new vote of the electorate is
required for the City Council to reactivate the requirements of this Chapter.

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 2010
Page 9/<5f 16

3.44.110 Exemptions.	/

A.	The taxes imposed by this Chapter shall not apply to any/Business or
activity which is exempt from payment of a Business Tax imposed by ttiis Chapter by
virtue of the provisions of a franchise agreement which was adopted prior to the
effective date of the ordinance which codified this Chapter and which is binding on the
City at the time the Gross Receipts are received or costs incused, or by virtue of
provisions of the laws or Constitution of the United States or of tho^State of California.

B.	The Business Tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be applicable to any

Business or activity of a public utility, as that term is defined in Section 216 of the
California Public Utilities Code, or to any Business or activity which is wholly for the
benefit of charitable purposes, or for any entertainment,^concert, exhibition or lecture on
scientific, historical, literary or religious subjects within the City whenever the Gross
Receipts of any such entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture are to be appropriated
to any church or school not operated for profit or to/any religious or benevolent purpose,
and such tax shall not be applicable to the oonduct of any entertainment, dance,
concert, exhibition or lecture by any religious, charitable, fraternal, nonprofit educational,
military, state, county or municipal organization or association whenever the Gross
Receipts of any such entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition or lecture are to be
appropriated for the purpose and objects for which such organization or association was
formed and from which profit is not/derived, either directly or indirectly, by any
individual.	/

C.	Any Person claiming/an exemption from the Business Tax imposed by this
Chapter shall complete a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator and submit
documentary proof establishing} the basis for tax exemption as may be requested by the
Tax Administrator from time/to time and submitted by the date the documentation is
due. Once granted pursuant to this section, an exemption shall remain in effect, without
need for an additional fifing or tax payment, for so long as the Person claiming the
exemption engages in One Business or activity for which the exemption is claimed.

3.44.120 Business/Tax Receipt/Certificate Required for Each Activity at Location.

A. A separate Business Tax Receipt/Certificate is required for each branch or
location of a fsusiness and for each separate type of Business at a single location.
Each Business Tax Receipt/Certificate shall authorize the Tax Receipt/Certificate
Holder to transact and carry on only the Business stated therein at the location or in the
manner ^designated in such Business Tax Receipt/Certificate; provided, however, a
Business may obtain Business Tax Receipt/Certificate for separate locations either by
submitting a combined application for two or more locations or by submitting separate
applications for each location.

.44.130 Application Required.

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 201 O'
Page 10 of/lb

A. Each applicant for a Business Tax Receipt/Certificate shall file a written
application with the Tax Administrator upon forms provided by the Tax Admipnstrator
stating the Business activity to be conducted, the location and address of the Business,
the officers or other principals of the Business, and sufficient information to allow
computation of the Business Tax due.	/

3.44.140 Review upon Application and Change of Address.	/

When necessary, the Tax Administrator shall refer an application or a notice of
changed or new addresses to the appropriate City officers for determination as to
whether the proposed Business activity and the premises in which it is to be conducted
comply with applicable laws and ordinances. In the event/it is determined that the
proposed activity may not be maintained in complian/Ze with the law, the Tax
Administrator shall so inform the applicant in writing and no new or renewed Tax
Business Receipt/Certificate shall be issued.	/

3.44.150 Issuance of Business Tax Receipts/Certificates.

A.	All Business Tax Receipts/Certificates shall be prepared and issued under

the direction of the Tax Administrator. Each Business Tax Receipt/Certificate shall state
the following information upon its face:	/

1.	The Person to whom it i/issued;

2.	The nature of the Business or activity for which tax has been paid;

3.	The address ancklocation of the Business;

4.	The expiration date of the Business Tax Receipt/Certificate; and

5.	Such otner information as is deemed necessary by the Tax

Administrator. /

B.	No Business Tax Receipt/Certificate shall be issued to any Person until
any previous indebtedness for Business Taxes and fees imposed by this Chapter has
been paid. /

3.44.160/ferms of Business Tax Receipts/Certificates and Delinquency.

/A.	Each Business Tax Receipt/Certificate shall expire on the last day of June

of me year following the year in which it is granted. Every renewal Business Tax shall
be due and payable on the first day of July of each year and shall become delinquent
Jnirty (30) days thereafter and the penalties of Section 3.44.170 shall then attach.

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax,
February 24, 20W
Page 11 oJ/16

3.44.170 Penalties for Delinquency.	/

A.	Upon a Taxpayer's failure to pay the entire Business Tax wheydue, the

Tax Administrator shall add a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the Business Tax, or
unpaid portion of the Business Tax, on the first day of each month following sixty (60)
days after the Business Tax was due; provided, however, no penalty sh^HI be assessed
in excess of thirty percent (30%) of the Business Tax due. For the/purposes of this
Chapter, a payment made by mail shall be deemed received on the date shown on a
U.S. Postal Service postage cancellation stamp imprinted on the envelope in which the
payment is received, or if payment is made by means other tlwi U.S. Mail, payment
shall be deemed received on the date the payment is stampecT'received" upon receipt
by the Tax Administrator or his or her designee.	/

B.	On the first day of the month following the/aate on which the maximum
penalty provided for in subsection A has accrued, interest at the rate of one and a
quarter percent (1.25%) per month shall begin to accrue. Interest shall accrue at this
rate on the amount of the unpaid Business Tax, exclusive of penalties, for each month
or portion of a month until the Business Tax is paid:

3.44.180 Refunds.	/

No Business Tax shall be refunded unless it is determined by the Tax
Administrator that a Business Tax has been paid in error, computed incorrectly,
overpaid, or collected illegally. No refund shall be made unless a request is received by
the Tax Administrator within one yeai/of the payment of the Business Tax.

3.44.190 Display of Business Tax Receipts/Certificates.

All Business Tax Receipts/Certificates shall be kept in the following manner:

A.	Any Business Tax Receipt/Certificate issued for a fixed Business location
in the City shall be kept on the premises for which the Tax Receipt/Certificate is issued.

B.	Any .Business Tax Receipt/Certificate issued for a Business that is not
conducted fronya fixed location in the City shall be kept upon the person of the
Taxpayer whilyne or she is conducting Business in the City. If the Taxpayer conducts
Business in tne City through several individuals, employees, representatives or other
agents (collectively “agents”), then duplicate Business Tax Receipts/Certificates may be
issued fo/named agents by the Tax Administrator.

(/. The Tax Administrator and any other person authorized by the Tax
Admipnstrator shall have the authority to enter any place of business taxed under this
chapiter during regular business hours and request to review the Business Tax
Receipt/Certificate. No Person to whom a Business Tax Receipt/Certificate was issued
/or who has custody or control of a Business Tax Receipt/Certificate shall willfully fail to

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 201^
Page 12 of/6

present for inspection the Business Tax Receipt/Certificate upon the request/of a
person authorized to inspect it under this subsection.	/

3.44.200 Assessment of Business Tax upon Failure to Procure Busmess Tax
Receipt/Certificate.	/

When a Person who engages in a Business taxed under thiyChapter fails to
procure a Business Tax Receipt/Certificate within the time required by this Chapter, or
after demand by the Tax Administrator, the Tax Administrator ma\/then determine the
amount of the Business Tax due based on such information as nrtay be available. The
Tax Administrator shall then notify such Person of the amount/due, including penalties
imposed under Section 3.44.170, and demand payment. Supn payment shall be made
within thirty days after written notice is made by the Tax Administrator.

3.44.210 Evidence of Doing Business/Engaging in Business.

The use of signs, circulars, cards, or any /5ther advertising media, including
without limitation, the use of any electronic median, social media, websites, telephone
listings or telephone solicitation, or any otheymeans by which a Person may hold
himself or herself out as, or represent that heyor she is, doing Business or engaging in
Business in the City may be used as evidence that a person is doing Business or
engaging in Business in the City.	/

3.44.220 Audits and Adjustments. /

A.	Any Person engaged>in a Business taxed under this Chapter shall, upon
notification of the Tax Administrated, shall provide the necessary records to substantiate
the calculation of the Business Tax paid or due for such Business. If upon audit of such
records, the Tax Administrator determines the Business Tax imposed by this Chapter
has not been accurately caLefulated or paid in full, the Tax Administrator shall notify the
Taxpayer in writing of the/Dalance due, including any accrued penalties. Such amount
shall be paid within thirty/days (30) after notice is issued by the Tax Administrator.

B.	If an auoit reveals an overpayment, the Tax Administrator shall notify the
Taxpayer in writing'of the amount overpaid. Unless the Taxpayer requests a refund of
the overpaymenjMn writing within thirty days (30) after notice is issued by the Tax
Administrator, me overpayment shall be applied as a credit against the next annual
Business Tax^aue.

C.	/ If an audit reveals an underpayment of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) or less,
the Tax Administrator shall take no action to collect the underpayment and shall be due
with themext annual Business Tax payment..

/ D. Rather than request information and conduct an audit, the Tax
Administrator may request applicant Taxpayer to file a corrected application for a
business Tax Receipt/Certificate. If such an application is filed and the Tax
Administrator is satisfied with its accuracy, the existence of any underpayment or

Ordinance 404 -Business Ta^
February 24, 2o/o
Page 13 or 16

overpayment under this Section shall be determined with reference to the corrected
application. If a Taxpayer fails to file a corrected application or if the Tax Administrator
is not satisfied with the corrected application, the Tax Administrator may conduct an
audit under subsection (A) of this section after giving thirty days written notice.

3.44.230 Examination of Books and Records.	/

A. The Tax Administrator is hereby authorized to examine the books and
records concerning the calculation of Gross Receipts of a Business of any Person
subject to this Chapter who has paid the Business Tax for the ourpose of verifying the
accuracy of any application made or if no application is made, to ascertain the Business
Tax due under this Chapter. Every Person is required to furnish to the Tax
Administrator, the means, and opportunity for making such examination and
investigation as are hereby authorized. The Tax Administrator is hereby authorized to
request that any Person participate in an examination/tor the purpose of verifying the
accuracy of any Business Tax owed, or if no application is made, to ascertain the
Business Taxes due under this Chapter, and for this purpose may request the
production of books and records and any additional evidence. Failure to do so will
result in the assessment of a Business Tax, as determined by the Tax Administrator up
to the maximum tax possible being owed in addition with any applicable penalties.

3.44.240 Declaration-Confidential Docurnents.

Any statement or information filed or gathered pursuant to this Chapter including,
but not limited to, Gross Receipts' or Operating Costs, shall be deemed to be
confidential in character and shall not be subject to public inspection and shall be kept
so that the contents thereof shall Plot become known except to persons charged with the
administration of this Chapter. The foregoing prohibition shall not apply to the following
information contained in the/Business Tax Receipt/Certificate application: Business
name, Business telephone, Easiness mailing and street address, the exact nature of the
Business for which the Business Tax Receipt/Certificate is required, owner’s name and
the name of the principals, if the business is a partnership or corporation, limited liability
corporation, or other any type of Business entity.

3.44.250 Non-transferability of Business Tax Receipts/Certificates - Duties upon
Transfer of Business.

A. / No Business Tax Receipt/Certificate issued under this Chapter may be
transferred by a Tax Receipt/Certificate Holder to any other Person.

/ B. Whenever any Person is required to pay a Business Tax pursuant to this
Chapter and has not paid the Business Tax and closes the Business or transfers
ownership of the Business, the Business Tax payable under this Chapter shall be

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 2010
Page 14 of 16

immediately due and payable, and such Person shall immediately file the application
required by Section 3.44,130 and pay the Business Tax due.	/

C.	Whenever any Person required to pay a Business Tax pursuant to this
Chapter transfers ownership of a Business to another Person, the transferor and
transferee of the Business shall be jointly and severally liable for the Business Tax due
pursuant to subsection (B) of this Section. No Business Tax Receipt/Certificate may
issue to the transferee until the Business Tax due under subsection (B)this Section is
paid.	/

3.44.260 Change of Address or Ownership.	/

Every Taxpayer who changes his or her place of Business, or who relocates a
Business previously operated without a fixed place of Business, shall notify the Tax
Administrator in writing of the new address of the Business. Every Taxpayer who
transfers all or part of the ownership of his or her .Business shall notify the Tax
Administrator in writing of the change in ownership./The notices required under this
section must be received by the Tax Administrator within thirty days (30) of the change
of address or ownership.	/

3.44.270Notice.	/

Any notice required to be provided/a Taxpayer under this Chapter shall be in
writing and shall be sufficient if deposited/with postage prepaid in the United States Mail
and addressed to the address providecr on the application unless a change of address
notice has been received, in which czse notice is sufficient if mailed to the most recent
address of which the Tax Administrator has been informed.

3.44.280 Constitutional Apportionment.

None of the Business Tax provided for by this Chapter shall be applied so as to
occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce or be in violation of the equal
protection and due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States and the
State of California. /

In any case^where a Business Tax is believed by a Tax Receipt/Certificate
Holder or applicant for a Business Tax Receipt/Certificate to place an undue
burden upon interstate commerce or be in violation of other applicable provisions
of the U.S. Constitution and/or California Constitution, that Person may apply to
the Tax Administrator for an adjustment of the Business Tax and in the
adjustment, if any, shall be made within six months (6) after payment of the
prescribed Business Tax.

3.44.290 Tax Apportioned for Intercity Business—Computation.

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 2010
Page 15 of

A.	Apportionment as authorized by Section 3.44.290 shall be computed as

follows: Tax Receipt/Certificate Holder shall receive as a rebate the percentage/Of the
total tax levied which corresponds to the percentage of Gross Receipts attributable to
Business conducted outside of the City.	/

B.	No apportionment shall be allowed unless the written application for such

apportionment is accompanied by sworn statement concerning the amount of Gross
Receipts attributable to business conducted within the City.	/

C.	Any applicant for apportionment of Business Tax shall make the books,

records and any supporting documents of the Business available for inspection as
requested by the City.	/

3.44.300 Violations.	/

A.	A violation of this Chapter is subject to/any and all applicable legal

remedies, including but not limited to the penalty provisions of Chapters 1.16 and 1.18
of the SBMC.	/

B.	It is a violation of this Chapter to knowingly or intentionally misrepresent to
any officer or employee of the City any material fact relative to any Business Tax
imposed under the provisions of this Chapter/

3.44.310 Delinquent Tax Constitutes Debt to the City.

The amount of the Business Tax, penalty, and/or interest imposed by the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City. An action may be
commenced by the City or authorized representative in any court of competent
jurisdiction in the name of the City for the amount of such debt, such action to begin not
later than three (3) years from the date the Business Tax was due and no later than
three (3) years from the /late the Business Tax, penalty and/or interest was first
assessed.	/

3.44.320 Remedies/Cumulative.

Failure to/omply with the provisions of this Chapter shall not relieve such Person
from paying any Business Tax, penalty, or interest due and unpaid at the time of such
judgment, nor shall payment prevent judicial action for a violation of any of the
provisions of this Chapter. All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more
remedies/by the City to enforce this Chapter shall not bar the use of any other remedy.

3.44.330 Severability

Ordinance 404 -Business Tax
February 24, 201 <
Page 16 of

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this Chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the
Chapter. The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this Chapter and
each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion thereof, inospective of
the fact that anyone or more sections, subsections, phrases, or portions be declared
invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 2. Pursuant to Elections Code section 9217, A a majority of the
voters voting on a proposed ordinance vote in its favor, the ordurtance shall become a
valid and binding ordinance of the City. The ordinance shall be/considered as adopted
upon the date that the vote is declared by the legislative bo<^, and shall go into effect
10 days after that date.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED on thtf _ day of July 2010, and

certified by Resolution 2010-___,	and	adopted	by	thjs	voters	at	the	Special Municipal

Election, Proposition__, held June 8, 2010.

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Councilmembers

Councilmembers

Councilmembers

Councilmembers

THOMAS M. CAMPBELL, Mayor

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

ATTEST:

JOHANNA N. CANLAS, City Attorney

ANGELA IVEY, City Clerk