IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

BENICIA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX PROPOSAL

Measure C will authorize the Benicia Unified School District ("District") to levy a
special tax to support the District's schools, under California Government Code
sections 50075 et seq., 50076, 50077, 50079 and 53720, 53721, 53722 and 53724.

The District will impose a special tax for a period of 6 years, beginning July 1, 2011,
at the annual rate of $58.00, on each assessor's parcel located within the District,
defined as any unit of real property that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes. The special tax will uniformly apply to four real property
classifications as defined in the measure:	single	family residence; multi-family

residence; commercial/industrial; and all vacant, unimproved parcels. The District
will determine the appropriate tax classification.

The District may grant an exemption on any parcel owned by one or more persons
65 years of age or over who occupies the parcel as a principal resident, upon
application for a Senior Citizen Exemption. The District will annually provide the
Solano County Assessor with a list of parcels that the District has approved for the
exemption.

The Governing Board ("Board") of the District will allocate and apply the proceeds
derived from the special tax only for the following specific purposes:

(1)	to minimize increases in class;

(2)	to hire, train and retain teachers;

(3)	to provide students with the support and instruction they need to succeed with
basic reading and math skills;

(4)	to maintain quality band and music programs;

(5)	to maintain quality physical education programs;

(6)	to provide students and teachers with textbooks and classroom supplies;

(7)	to provide students at all grade levels with high quality classroom programs and
student services.

The District will place the proceeds in a separate account and the District's
Superintendent or chief fiscal officer will issue an annual report to the Board showing
the amount of funds collected and spent and the status of any authorized projects or
programs. The report may relate to any appropriate annual period selected by the
reporting official and may be incorporated into and filed with the annual budget,
audit or other appropriate routine report to the Board.

The Board will appoint an independent Citizens' Oversight Committee comprised of
parents and representatives from the business community to ensure that the moneys
raised are spent only for the specific purposes. The Board will provide by resolution
for the composition, duties, funding and other necessary information regarding the
committee's formation and operation.

The measure will become effective only if approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting on it.

All qualified voters residing within the boundaries of the District are entitled to vote
on the measure.

A "YES" VOTE favors the levying for 6 years of the special school tax for the specific
purposes within the Benicia Unified School District.

A "NO" VOTE opposes the levying for 6 years of the special school tax for the specific
purposes within the Benicia Unified School District.

August 6, 2010

Dennis Bunting
Solano County Counsel

Elec. Code, § 9500

Benicia Unified School District does a great job educating students. Qualified and experienced
+ ->chers, as well as smaller class sizes, top-notch academic programs, and parent support help
w^dents achieve academic excellence. Our first-rate schools are part of the reason our
community is a desirable place to live. Engaged and successful students result in reduced crime,
make for happier families, and improve the quality of life in our community.

Drastic cuts in educational funding are threatening the quality of our schools. In response to the
budget crisis, our schools have saved over $4 million by improving efficiencies and making
reductions. However, ongoing decline in state funding is now affecting classroom instruction.

We simply cannot rely on the state to adequately fund the high-quality education we expect and
admire in our schools. Our students cannot wait for the nation's economic recovery or the
solution to the state's budget deficit.

Measure C will maintain our excellent schools-by retaining teachers and protecting educational
programs.

Measure C protects your property's value by maintaining high quality schools.

Vote YES on Measure C:

® Minimize increases in class size
® Retain and train high-quality teachers
® Provide needed support in reading and math
Retain outstanding band and music programs

•	Provide textbooks and classroom supplies

•	Provide students at all grade levels with high quality classroom programs and student
services

Fiscal Accountability

® All funds will stay in our schools and cannot be taken by the state
« A citizens oversight committee consisting of parents, representatives from the business
community, and the community-at-large will guarantee funds are spent as promised
® Senior citizens can apply for an exemption (but we need their vote)

•	An annual audit of funds collected and expended

Join Us: Vote YES on Measure C: Support our students and our schools

BENICIA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
RESOLUTION #10-11-02

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL TAX ELECTION, ESTABLISHING
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION
WITH OTHER ELECTIONS OCCURRING ON NOVEMBER 2, 2010

RESOLVED, by the Board of Education (the "Board") of the Benicia Unified School
District (the "District"), as follows:

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and section
50079 of the California Government Code authorize a school district, upon approval of two-
thirds of the electorate voting on the measure","to'levy a qualified'special tax for specified

purposes;

WHEREAS, while the District works diligently to provide the best education for its
students, the District faces new challenges due to lack of adequate statewide funding and
local business property tax decline that has forced the District to make very difficult budget
cuts in recent years; and

WHEREAS, without additional local revenue the District has no choice but to make
additional deep cuts to programs and staff in the classroom which will negatively impact
classroom instruction at every school in Benicia; and

WHEREAS, an adequately funded and well-developed public education program
provides numerous benefits and advantages to all of the residents of the community; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that to support student achievement in
Benicia's local public schools by maintaining quality educational programs, providing
academic resources at all grade levels, minimizing class size increases, and attracting and
retaining qualified and experienced employees, it is necessary to authorize a special tax.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the Benicia
Unified School District, as follows:

Section 1. Recitals. This Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals
are true and correct.

Section 2. Order of Election. This resolution shall stand as the order to the Solano
County Superintendent of Schools to call an election within the boundaries of the District on
November 2, 2010 for approval of a measure ("Measure") which will be presented to voters
in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, containing the question of whether the District
shall impose a special tax for the educational purposes stated therein. In addition, the full
text of the Measure ("Full Ballot Text") shall appear in the ballot pamphlet in substantially
the form attached hereto as Exhibit B. The authority for the specifications of this election

1

order is contained in sections 5304 and 5322 of the California Education Code, and the
authority for ordering the election is contained in and section 50075 et seq. of the
California Government Code and Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution.

Section 3. Senior Exemption from Special Tax. An exemption from payment of the
special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or
over who occupies said parcel as a principal residence, upon application for exemption
("Senior Citizen Exemption"). The District shall annually provide to the County Treasurer-
Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax official a list of parcels that the District has
approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption.

Section 4. Collection of the Tax. The special tax shall be collected by the County Tax
Collector of the County of Solano ("County Tax Collector"), at the same time, in the same
manner, and subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the
County Tax Collector. Unpaid special taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate
for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

The special tax shall be levied on all parcels of taxable real property in the District.
"Parcel of Taxable Real Property" shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District
that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the County Tax
Collector's Office. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no
ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in such
year. With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax
Collector shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and
that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the
special tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption, the decisions of a District administrative
review panel shall be final and binding.

Section 5. Reporting and Oversight

(a)	Specific Purpose. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the
specific purposes identified in the Full Ballot Text. The proceeds of the special
tax shall be deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart
from other funds of the District.

(b)	Annual Report. No later than January 1 of each year while the tax is in effect,
the District shall prepare and file with the Board of Education a report/audit
detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any
project authorized to be funded by this Measure.

(c)	Independent Citizen Oversight Committee. The Board shall provide for an
independent Citizens' Oversight Committee comprised of parents and
representatives of the business community and the community at large to
ensure that moneys raised under this Measure-are spent only for the
purposes described in this Measure. The Board shall provide by resolution for
the composition, duties, funding and other necessary information regarding
the Committee's formation and operation.

2

Section 6. Filing of Order of Election. The Secretary of this Board is ordered to cause
certificated copies of this resolution and order to be delivered not later than August 4, 2010
to the Solano County Superintendent of Schools, the Registrar of Voters, and the Clerk of
the Board of Supervisors of Solano County.

Section 7. Formal Notice. The Solano County Superintendent of Schools is hereby
requested to prepare and execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation
order in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit C (the "Formal Notice"), and to
call the election by causing the Formal Notice to be posted in accordance with section 5362
of the California Education Code no later than August 4, 2010, or to otherwise cause the
notice to be published as permitted by law. The Secretary of this Board, on behalf of and as
may be requested by the Solano County Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to cause
all notices required by law in connection herewith to be published and posted, as the case
may be.	..................

Section 8. Conduct of Election.

(a)	Request to Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to section 5303 of the California
Education Code, the Registrar of Voters is requested to take all steps to hold
the election in accordance with law and these specifications.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to reprint the
measure in its entirety in the voter information pamphlet to be distributed to
voters pursuant to section 13307 of the California Elections Code. In the
event the measure in Exhibit B will not be reprinted in the voter information
pamphlet in its entirety, the Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to print,
immediately below the impartial analysis of the measure, in no less than 10-
point boldface type, a legend substantially as follows:

"The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure________. If you

desire a copy of the measure, please call the Solano County Registrar of
Voters at (_______)	and	a	copy	will	be mailed at no cost to you."

(c)	Consolidation. The Solano County Superintendent of Schools and the Board
of Supervisors of Solano County are requested to order consolidation of the
election with such other elections as may be held on the same day in the
same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

(d)	Canvass of Results. The Board of Supervisors of Solano County is authorized
to canvass the returns of the election pursuant to section 10411 of the
California Elections Code.

Section 9. Appropriations Limit. The Board shall provide in each year for an increase
in the District's appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that the proceeds of the
special tax may be spent for its authorized purposes.

3

Section 10. Ballot Arguments. The President of this Board, or any member or members
of this Board as the President shall designate, is hereby authorized, but not directed, to
prepare and file with the Registrar of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the proposition
contained herein, within the time established by the Registrar of Voters, which shall be
considered the official ballot argument of this Board as sponsor of the proposition.

Section 11. Official Actions. The District Superintendent, President of the Board, or
their designees are hereby authorized to execute any other document and to perform all
acts necessary to place the Measure on the ballot, including making alterations to the
Measure and Full Ballot Text stated in Exhibits A and B hereto to comply with requirements
of law and election officials or which are, in the judgment of the Superintendent, in the best
interests of the District.

Section 12. Effective Bate. This resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.

PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS 3rd day of August 2010, at a meeting of the Board of
Education by the following vote:

AYES:	>5

NOES:_____O

ABSENT:	£.



Clerk ofti)^ Board

------------------  Vi

President of the Board



of Edacation

4

EXHIBIT A

Summary of Measure

The Measure shall be summarized in the following form, and the Registrar of Voters is
requested to cause this summary of the measure to appear on the ballot:

To minimize the loss of teaching positions, increases in class sizes, cuts in reading, math ;l
and other programs; and to provide students with high-quality classroom programs and i ^
student services, shall the Benicia Unified School District be authorized to levy an annual j '
parcel tax of $58 per residence and $58 per parcel of commercial or industrial property, for ■ ^
6 years with exemptions for seniors, and expenditures reviewed by a citizens' oversight /
committee?

{

5

EXHIBIT B

FULL BALLOT TEXT

BENICIA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
Measure__________________

[letter designation to be assigned by County Registrar of Voters]

RECITALS

The Governing Board ("Board") of the Benicia Unified School District ("District") has
established the goals of improving academic performance and the quality of education for all
children in the District.

In support of these goals and to improve local control of its programs and services,
the Board has proposed supplemental educational funding for schools and programs for
kindergarten through twelfth grade, including the funds needed to help minimize class size
increases and protect, preserve and improve classroom and library programs.

The community recognizes the positive impact of excellent schools on the quality of
life in the District, and that successful schools support and enhance property values.

The District seeks to maintain excellent schools at a time when the California
Legislature is again unable to provide adequate funding for the operation of the schools in
the District.

The District was forced to cut approximately $4.1 million from its budget in 2009-10,
and is again facing budget cuts of approximately $2.4 million in 2010-11 due to continuing
cuts and unpredictability in State funding of education for the foreseeable future.

The District may be forced to adopt a budget that includes teacher and staff layoffs
and reductions in programs and services beneficial and necessary to students.

Property values within the District wilt be adversely affected by a decline in the
quality of education provided by the District.

A superior and comprehensive education program delivers many benefits to all the
residents of our community.

TERMS

To minimize the loss of teaching positions, increases in class sizes, cuts in reading, math
and other programs and to provide students with high-quality classroom programs and
student services, shall the Benicia Unified School District be authorized beginning July 1,
2011 to levy a tax of $58/residence or dwelling unit per year and taxes on commercial
property as described below, for 6 years with exemptions for seniors and expenditures
reviewed by a citizens' oversight committee?

6

Moneys raised under this Measure shall be authorized to be used only for the
following purposes in accordance with priorities established by the Board and to the extent
of available funds:

•	to minimize increases in class size
o to hire, train and retain teachers

« to provide students with the support and instruction they need to
succeed with basic reading and math skills

•	to maintain quality band and music programs

® to maintain quality physical education programs

® to provide students and teachers with textbooks and classroom
supplies

•	to provide students at all grade levels with high quality classroom
programs and student services.

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

A special tax shall be levied on parcels in the District, commencing in the 2011-12 fiscal
year, as follows.

1.	Parcel of Taxable Real Property. The special tax shall be levied on every
parcel of taxable real property in the District. "Parcel of taxable real property" means any
unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property
taxes from the Solano County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. All property that is otherwise
exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the special tax in such year.

2.	Uniform Application. The special tax shall be a uniformly applied to each
parcel of taxable real property within the following property classifications.

Type of Property_________________________________Annual	Amount	of	Tax

®	Single Family Residential	$58	per parcel

®	Multi-Family Residential	$58	per dwelling	unit

®	Commercial/Industrial	$58	for every parcel

®	All Vacant, Unimproved Parcels	$58	per parcel

For purposes of determining the rate of tax above, the following definitions shall apply:

o "Single Family Residential" includes parcels containing one of the following kinds
of residential living units (a) those with no common walls on a single Assessor's

7

parcel (i.e., single family detached homes); and (b) those with common walls
each of which is assigned a unique Assessor's parcel number (i.e. condominiums
and townhouses), each of which shall be treated as a Parcel of Taxable Real
Property; and (c) mobile homes, each of which shall Be treated as a Parcel of
Taxable Real Property.

• "Multi-Family Residential" means a residential living unit with common wails on
an Assessor's parcel on which other units are located. Such parcels include, but
are not limited to, duplexes, parcels with two (2) or more living units on a single
assessor's parcel; apartment buildings with two (2) or more units (up to an
unlimited number of units); and any and all other multi-family residential parcels.

® Commercial/Industrial means all improved Parcels of Taxable Real Property that
are not Single Family Residential or Multi-Family Residential. Commercial/
Industrial property includes, but is not limjted to, retail buildings, shopping
centers, hotels, motels, service stations, office buildings, hospitals, trailer parks,
warehouses, transportation facilities, storage facilities and light and heavy
industrial property.

Every year, all Parcels of Taxable Real Property that were classified as Vacant,
Unimproved Parcels in the prior fiscal year, may be reclassified into another category if a
building permit has been pulled as of January 1 of that year.

B.	Senior Citizen Exemption

An exemption from the special tax shall be granted on any parcel owned by one or
more persons aged 65 years or older as of July 1 of any applicable tax year who occupies
said parcel as a principal residence, upon application for exemption.

C.	Claims / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Solano
County Tax Assessor or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and
binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the tax, including the Senior Citizen
Exemption and the appropriate tax classification, the decisions of the District shall be final
and binding. The procedures described herein, and any additional procedures established
by the Board shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption,
refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special tax by the District. Whether any
particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the
District, in coordination with the County as necessary. Taxpayers wishing to challenge any
determination of the County Tax Assessor must do so under the procedures for correcting a
misciassification of property pursuant to Part 9 of Division 1 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of any tax paid
shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

8

D.

Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the
appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum
collected by levy of this special tax.

E. Accountability Provisions

Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. The Board shall provide for an
independent Citizens' Oversight Committee comprised of parents and representatives of the
business community and the community at large to ensure that moneys raised under this
Measure are spent only for the purposes named in this Measure. The Board shall provide by
resolution for the composition, duties, funding and other necessary information regarding
the Committee's formation and operation.

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the education parcel tax, the Board
shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to
Government Code Section 50075.1. For so long as the tax is in effect, the Superintendent
or the chief financial officer of the District shall cause a report to be filed with the Board no
later than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2011, stating (i) the
amount collected and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or
description of any programs funded. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year,
or other appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine, and may be incorporated
into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute the
specific purposes of the education parcel tax, and proceeds thereof shall be applied only for
such purposes.

F.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that
every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters
would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon
approval of this measure by the voters, should any part of the measure or taxing formula be
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts
of the measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest
extent allowed by law.

9

EXHIBIT C

FORMAL NOTICE OF SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Benicia Unified School District of
Solano County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code and
the Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held on November 2,
2010, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the District the proposition
summarized as follows:

To minimize the loss of teaching positions, increases in class sizes, cuts in reading,
math and other programs; and to provide students with high-quality classroom
programs and student services, shall the Benicia Unified School District be authorized
to levy an annual parcel tax of $58 per residence and $58 per parcel of commercial
or industrial property, for 6 years with exemptions for seniors, and expenditures
reviewed by a citizens' oversight committee?

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the County Superintendent of Schools
of Solano County orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as may be
held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The County Superintendent of Schools of Solano County, by this Notice of Election,
has called the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Board of Trustees of the
Benicia Unified School District adopted August 3, 2010, in accordance with the provisions of
Education Code Sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day.

2010.

5,

County Superintendent of Schools
Solano County, California

10