159

|VI Real Property Transfer Tax

Shall the City increase its real property transfer tax rate to 2.0% for sales and	YES

long-term leases of real property valued at $5 million to $10 million and to	|\|Q	^	^

2.5% for sales and long-term leases of real property valued at $10 million or
more?

Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee

The Way It Is Now: The City imposes a tax on the sale
of real estate in San Francisco.The tax rate ranges
from 0.5% to 1.5%, depending on the value of the real
estate.The 1.5% rate applies to sales of $5 million or
more.The tax also applies to real estate leases with a
term of 35 years or more.

Proceeds from the tax go into the City's General Fund.

The Proposal: Proposition N would increase the tax
rate for the sale of real estate valued at more than $5
million. For real estate sales of $5 million to $10 mil-
lion, the rate would increase to 2.0%. For real estate
sales of $10 million or more, the rate would increase to
2.5%. These increases would also apply to real estate
leases with a term of 35 years or more.

A "YES" Vote Means: If you vote "yes," you want to
increase the tax rate to 2.0% for real estate sales and
long-term leases of $5 million to $10 million and 2.5%
for real estate sales and long-term leases of $10 million
or more.

A "NO" Vote Means: If you vote "no," you do not want
to make these changes.

Controller's Statement on "N"

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition N:

Should the proposed ordinance be approved by the
voters, in my opinion, it will generate additional tax
revenue for the City that can be used for any public
purpose.The ordinance would increase the property
transfer tax rate on transactions of properties with sale
prices between $5.0 million and $10.0 million from
1.5% to 2%, and the rate on transactions of properties
with sale prices over $10.0 million from 1.5% to 2.5%.

Based on the actual pattern of transactions and reve-
nues received by the City through the property transfer
tax, had the proposed ordinance been in place during

the period from fiscal year 2000-2001 through fiscal
year 2008-2009, it would have resulted in additional
annual revenue ranging from $6.0 million to $90.0
million, with an average amount of $36.0 million
annually during that period.

While we estimate that the proposed ordinance would
have resulted in average additional revenue of $36.0
million per year in the recent past, it is important to
note that this is the City's most volatile revenue source,
and estimates based on prior years' activity may not
be predictive of future revenues.

How "N" Got on the Ballot

On July 27, 2010, the Board of Supervisors voted 8 to 3
to place Proposition N on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

Yes: Supervisors Avalos, Campos, Chiu, Daly, Dufty,
Mar, Maxwell and Mirkarimi.

No: Supervisors Alioto-Pier, Chu and Elsbernd.

This measure requires 50%+1 affirmative votes to pass.

Arguments for and against this measure immediately follow this page.The full text begins on page 188.
Some of the words used in the ballot digest are explained on page 61.

38-CP159-EN-N10

^This disclaimer applies to the proponent's argument and the rebuttal to the proponent's argument on this page and the opponent's argument and ^
the rebuttal to the opponent's argument on the facing page. The Board of Supervisors authorized the submission of the following argument. As of
the date of the publication of this Voter Information Pamphlet, the following Supervisors endorse the measure: Supervisors Avalos, Campos, Chiu,
Dufty, Mar and Mirkarimi; oppose the measure: Supervisors Alioto-Pier, Chu and Elsbernd; take no position on the measure: Supervisors Daly and
^Maxwell.___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________^

Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition N

PROGRESSIVETAX REFORM THAT WONT COSTTHE
VAST MAJORITY OF SAN FRANCISCANS A DIME.

San Franciscans voted overwhelmingly in November,
2008 for a progressive real estate transfer tax struc-
ture. Proposition N continues this important work of
tax reform.

Proposition N will help fund vital city services when
the largest downtown office buildings are bought and
sold. It will NOT impact homeowners or small property
owners.

Here's what Proposition N does:

INCREASES REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX ON
BUILDINGS SOLD FOR MORETHAN FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS. Proposition N will increase the tax rate by
0.5% for buildings between $5 million and $10 million.
It will increase the rate by 1% on buildings sold for
over $10 million.

DOES NOT RAISE TAXES FOR HOMEOWNERS OR
SMALL PROPERTY OWNERS. Proposition N will not
apply to any building or home that is sold for less than
$5 million.

APPLIES ONLY ATTHETIME OF SALE.The real estate
transfer tax only applies when a large downtown office
building is bought and sold.

San Francisco faces a continuing, structural budget
deficit that has already caused severe cuts in MUNI
services, the cancellation of summer school, and
reductions in health care services.

Proposition N will help save these services in a fair,
equitable manner that will not raise taxes for average
San Francisco property owners or hurt our economy.

Please join the San Francisco Democratic Party,
teachers, nurses, and health care advocates and vote
YES on Proposition N.

Supervisor John Avalos
Chinese Progressive Association
United Educators of San Francisco
Sierra Club

Rebuttal to Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition N

Vote No on Prop N

Prop N Will Cost San Francisco Jobs

Proposition N is unwise and unnecessary. By raising
taxes on the sale of commercial and residential
properties. Proposition N will lead to higher rents for
residential units and commercial businesses.

Now is the wrong time to pursue a policy that will
create additional barriers to doing business in San
Francisco. Stand with small businesses and hard-
working San Franciscans and reject this job-killing tax
increase.

Prop N Will Harm Our Economy

Vote No on N to protect local jobs and preserve San
Francisco's economic recovery. Prop N will lead to
higher rents for businesses struggling to survive in a
bad economy.

San Franciscans must reject unwise tax increases that
will harm our City's economic recovery.

Prop N Will Hurt Hard-Working San Franciscans

Prop N would make San Francisco less competitive
and reduce job growth. Prop N will force small
businesses to leave the City, killing the jobs they
create and the tax revenue they generate.

Proposition N is bad policy in a bad economy.

Please Join Us in Voting No on Proposition N

Supervisor Michela Alioto-Pier
Supervisor Sean Elsbernd

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP160-EN-N10

Opponent's Argument Against Proposition N

STOPTHE SUPERVISORS' JOB KILLINGTAX INCREASE!
VOTE NO ON N!

Just two years ago, San Franciscans doubled the real
estate transfer tax to the highest in California. Even
though the economy's worse, supervisors want to raise
it again.

The City's chief economist says Proposition N will cost
180 private sector jobs and reduce the City's GDP by
$20 million.The transfer tax hike will:

•	Lead to higher office rents for small businesses,
forcing jobs out of our City, and

•	Reduce San Francisco property values, which will
mean lower property taxes.

If it was required to fund vital City services or balance
the budget. Proposition N might make sense.
Unfortunately, these funds would simply go into the
General Fund that supervisors use to fund pet projects.
This year, the Budget Committee added $1 million in
overtime and 400 city bureaucrats the Mayor said were
not needed. Imagine what they would do with more of
your hard earned money.

Voters have a clear choice. We must reject unwise tax
increases that will harm our economic recovery. We
need MUNI drivers to take the same pay cut as all City
workers and cut waste, fraud and abuse through
regular audits.

Voting No on N will require supervisors to make the
tough choices and confront the same decisions we face
in our everyday lives. Join us to protect local jobs and
preserve San Francisco's property values.

If you believe the Board of Supervisors is leading San
Francisco in the right direction and can be trusted with
your money, you should give them this blank check. If
not. Vote No on N!

Supervisor Michela Alioto-Pier
Supervisor Sean Elsbernd

Rebuttal to Opponent's Argument Against Proposition N

Support schools. Muni, health care and public safety
by voting Yes on N.

This year, summer school programs were canceled.
Muni lines were cut. Health care services were termi-
nated. City employees took a voluntary $250 million
paycut.The rising cost of services and the recession-
driven deficit are taking their toll.

Proposition N will help reduce these cuts while
ensuring that millionaire commercial property owners
pay their fair share for the services they use.

Large downtown properties use services, too.

Prop N only impacts buildings sold for $5 million or
more.These buildings require millions of dollars of city
services including public safety, street cleaning, transit
and health care.

Isn't it only fair that commercial property owners, not
just residents and employees, pay their share for the
cost of city services?

Only impacts buildings sold for over $5 million

Prop N is narrowly targeted to buildings that use a
large share of public services. Only buildings sold for
$5 million or more will be affected.

Does not raise taxes for homeowners.

Proposition N will not apply to any building or home
that is sold for less than $5 million. And, it only applies
when a building is bought and sold.

Stand up for San Francisco.

Please join the San Francisco Democratic Party, teach-
ers, nurses, and health care advocates fighting to save
vital services and vote YES on Proposition N.

Supervisor John Avalos
AssemblymemberTom Ammiano
Supervisor Eric Mar
Chinese Progressive Association
United Educators of San Francisco
Sierra Club

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP161-EN-N10

E1J

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

United Community and Worker Voices Say Vote YES on N

In the continuing economic crisis, working families and
their communities are struggling to survive. While cor-
porations reap record profits, low-wage workers face
growing wage theft, long-term unemployment and
economic insecurity. Big real estate investors should
pay their fair share to maintain and expand vital public
services for all residents.

Causa Justar.Just Cause (formerly St. Peter's Housing
Committee)

Chinese Progressive Action
Coleman Action Fund for Children
Mujeres Unidas y Activas
Pride at Work

South of Market Community Action Network
Young Workers United
JOBS WITH JUSTICE

People Organized to Demand Environmental and
Economic Rights

San Francisco Day Labor Program

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up For San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

Senior Action Network Says YES on N!

Proposition N raises the tax on sales of property worth
more than $5 million, helping balance our budget and
protect services for seniors on fixed incomes and per-
sons with disabilities.

Proposition N raises the tax on the sale of properties
worth more than $5 million to help support basic city
services. Prop N is a fair way to balance our budget
that doesn't cost average San Francisco homeowners a
penny.

Senior Action Network

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up For San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

Tenant Advocates Say YES on N

The basic city services Tenants rely on in San Francisco
have been slashed over the past three budget years:
bus lines eliminated, health programs cut, and 900
teachers proposed for layoffs.Tenant advocates sup-
port a balanced budget solution that includes new rev-
enues. Proposition N taxes the sale of properties worth
more than $5 million, impacting large commercial
landlords and protecting average homeowners.

Stop Cuts to Services San Francisco Tenants Rely
On-VOTEYES ON N!

San Francisco Tenants Union
Affordable Housing Alliance

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up For San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

SAN FRANCISCO TEACHERS SAY 'YES ON N'

This year San Francisco's school district proposed lay-
ing off 900 teachers and growing class sizes dramati-
cally to close its budget deficit. Proposition N taxes the
sale of properties worth more than $5 million, mostly
large downtown office buildings and the most expen-
sive residences. Prop N is a fair way to support San
Francisco and help our struggling school system. It's
time for a balanced approach to our budget that
includes new revenue.

San Francisco Teachers ask you to—Vote YES on N!

Dennis Kelly, President - UESF

Linda Plackr Executive Vice President - UESF*

Susan Solomon, Secretary - UESF*

Susan Kitchell, School Nurse, Burton High*

Kathleen Cecil, Mission High*

Larry Nichelson, Gallileo High*

Jay Kozak, George Washington High*

Maria Teresa Rode, Lowell High*

Katherine Melvin, Lowell High*

Patricia Golumb, A.P Giannini Middle*

Miranda Doyle, Martin Luther King Middle*

Lawrence Blake, Hoover Middle*
DerrickTynan-Connolly, Hilltop School*

David Mahon, Guadalupe Elementary*

MaryThomas, San Miguel Children Center*

David Russitano, Paul Revere Elementary*

Alita Blanc, Moscone Elementary*

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP162-EN-N10

Jessica Hobbs, Hillcrest Elementary*

Anthony Singleton, Paraprofessional, Burton High*
Carolyn Samoa, Paraprofessional, Pau/ Revere
Elementary*

Patricia Mann, School Psychologist*

Daniel Markarian, CORE Substitute*

Marilyn Cornwell, Substitute Teacher*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up For San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

Democrats Support Proposition N

Children's programs cancelled, senior services slashed.
Muni lines terminated - San Francisco's budget deficit
has hurt the basic services we all rely on. Proposition
N helps stop these cuts by increasing the tax on sales
of large commercial properties worth more than $5
million while not impacting average homeowners.

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up For San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

Sierra Club Supports Proposition N

Our parks, public open spaces. Muni, and citywide bike
network, all rely on city funds to keep them going.
Proposition N is a fair approach to balance the budget
deficits that have cause drastic cuts to these services
these past years without costing average San
Franciscans a penny.

Protect our Parks and Transit—Vote YES on N.

Sierra Club

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up For San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

LGBT LEADERS SAY YES ON N

Help stop cuts that harm the LGBT community. Vote
YES on N for a fair approach to a balanced budget.

Every year, critical services are put on the chopping
block as our city deals with massive budget deficits.

Proposition N will help raise millions to protect LGBT
services by increasing the tax paid when properties
worth more than $5 million are sold by 0.5%. Prop N
does not impact residential homeowners, but focuses
on large downtown office buildings.

It's time to help stop the cuts by voting Yes on N

Harvey Milk LGBT Democratic Club

SF Pride at Work

Senator Mark Leno

Fmr. Senator Carole Migden

AssemblymemberTom Ammiano

Supervisor David Campos

Debra Walker, Past President Harvey Milk LGBT

Democratic Club

Rafael Mandelman, Past President Harvey Milk LGBT
Democratic Club

Michael Goldstein, Past President Harvey Milk LGBT
Democratic Club

David Waggoner; Co-President Harvey Milk LGBT
Democratic Club

Robert "Gabriel" Haaland, SF Pride at Work
Kristina Wertz

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up For San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

Community Non-Profit Health Agencies Say Yes on N!

San Francisco community non-profit health and human
services agencies have experienced significant funding
cuts during the current fiscal crisis. Projections show
that the deficit next year will be even more devastating
to essential services for San Francisco's most vulnera-
ble residents.

We can no longer address our budget deficit only
through cuts to vital services. We must have additional
revenue as part of a balanced solution.

Proposition N is a progressive tax reform measure that
will help fund critical city services without raising taxes
on average San Francisco property owners. This mea-

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP163-EN-N10

sure is a fair way to provide resources to prevent the
further loss of health and human services for seniors,
families, the disabled, and homeless San Franciscans.

Join the San Francisco Human Services Network, a
coalition of over 100 community non-profit agencies,
and vote YES on Proposition N.

San Francisco Human Services Network

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Human Services Network.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

FIRST RESPONDERS SAY YES ON N!

When San Franciscans need emergency services and
care they rely on us to deliver it. But over the past
three years, budget deficits have forced the city to cut
funding for critical patient care at San Francisco
General Hospital's Emergency Room and other first-
response services. Proposition N will help stop the cuts
by increasing the tax on the sale of properties worth
more than $5 million, mostly large downtown office
buildings and the most expensive residences. First
responders workers ask you to support emergency ser-
vices by voting Yes on N. It's time to find a fair solution
to our budget that doesn't cut city services.

Join San Francisco First Responders in Voting Yes on N.

Kathryn Guta, RN, General	H

Sue Trupin, RN, General	Hospit

Theresa Cahill, RN, General
Jo Anne Roy, LVN, General Hospital*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

Laguna Honda Hospital Workers Say YES on N!

Over the past three years we have watched services for
San Francisco's senior and disabled community at
Laguna Honda Hospital reduced or cut altogether. Beds
for senior and disabled care, the Senior Adult Day
Health Program, and many other direct patient care
services have been cut or eliminated as the city has
tightened its belt. Proposition N taxes the sale of prop-
erties worth more than $5 million, mostly large down-
town office buildings and the most expensive residen-
ces. It's time to find a fair solution to our budget that
doesn't cut services for seniors and disabled patients.

Laguna Honda Hospital Workers ask you to support
senior and disabled patients by voting YES on N!

Susan Lindsay, Health Worker*

Gloria Mayfield, Nursing Assistant*

Patricia Mackey Williams, Nursing Assistant*

Rosalinda Concha, Licensed Vocational Nurse*

Masaki Tsurn, Nursing Assistant*

Randy Ellen Blaustein, Certified Therapeutic Recreation
Specialist*

Bryan Uyeno, Environmental Services*

Gregory Rechsteiner, Plant Services*

Jamilah Din, Food Service Worker*

Alexander Maestre, Porter*

Joseph McHugh, Cadet*

Bonnie Richardson, DMIT*

Winnie Dunbar; Cadet*

Micahel Beglic, Porter*

Karen Zhang, Porter*

Jenny Tam, Porter*

Rose Huang, Porter*

Chi-Lung Chan, Porter*

Li Chan Rey, Porter*

Philip Chang, Porter*

Allen Lee, Porter*

Tan Poy Chan, Porter*

Mee Mee Tong, Porter*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

Library Workers say Yes on N!

San Francisco's public libraries have suffered direct
cuts as a result of the economic crisis. Hours at neigh-
borhood branch libraries have been reduced, staff and
programs cut. We must find a better solution to our
budget crisis than cuts alone. Proposition N taxes the
sale of properties worth more than $5 million, mostly
large downtown office buildings and the most expen-
sive residences. Voting YES on N is a fair solution to
our budget deficit.

Librarians and neighborhood branch library workers
ask you to vote YES on N!

Andrea Grimes, Librarian*

Catherine Bremer, Librarian*

Marilyn Dong, Librarian*

Nancy Silverrod, Librarian*

Quindi Berger, Librarian*

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP164-EN-N10

Wendy Kramer, Librarian *

Stephen Lee, Library Technician*

Jennifer Giovanetti, Page*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition N

San Francisco General Workers SAYYES ON N

We provide health care to everyone that walks through
our doors, but we can't continue to do it in the face of
deep budget and staff cuts. As workers at San
Francisco General Hospital, we have seen first-hand
the impact of budget deficits on direct patient care and
specialized programs like acute psychiatric services.
Proposition N taxes the sale of properties worth more
than $5 million, mostly large downtown office build-
ings and the most expensive residences. It's time for a
balanced solution to our budget deficits that preserves
services for our patients.

Support Patient Services at General Hospital-Vote YES
ON N!

Amalia Fyles,	RN*

Kristina Hung, RN*

Amalia Deck, RN*

Ana Urrutia, RN*

Daniel Merer, RN*

Pete Trachy, RN*

Cristina Mendoza, Sr. Clerk*

Linda Cummins, Sr. Clerk*

Mayjanna Li, Medical Assistant*

Mariertta Morris-Alston, Unit Clerk*

Michael Tong, Institutional Police Officer*

Teri Hightower, Porter*

Charles Sanchez, Porter*

Dionii Derrick
Jessica Tam Middleton

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

End of Paid Arguments IN FA I of Proposition N

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition N____________________

As representatives of hundreds of small businesses in
San Francisco, we stand opposed to Proposition
N—the real estate sales tax. Don't be fooled by the
large numbers in the tax. Increasing taxes on the sale
and long-term lease of property in San Francisco will
filter down to increased costs for renters, small busi-
ness commercial leases, and other everyday San
Franciscans.

Proposition N will raise taxes. Proposition N will lead
to higher rents for residential units and commercial
businesses. Increased residential rents will increase the
threat of evictions for working families. Condominium
owners will face even higher HOA fees. On the com-
mercial side, Proposition N will increase prices for
local goods and services.The result will be more
empty store-fronts as San Francisco small businesses
get squeezed.

Without meaningful reform at City Hall, Proposition N
stands as just another attempt to enlarge the already
bloated City budget without making hard choices. Tell
the Board of Supervisors that San Francisco doesn't
need any more taxes.

Please join us in voting NO on Proposition N.

Small Business Network

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the SF Small Business Network.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition N____________________

After doubling the real estate sales tax rate in 2008, the
Board of Supervisors is back to raise taxes again with
Proposition N. Proposition N will harm our local econ-
omy and prolong the economic recession in San
Francisco for years to come.

Proposition N will raise taxes on the sale and long-
term lease of property in San Francisco.This tax hike
will negatively affect property values and City revenue
from property taxes. Reduced property values means
less City revenue generated when property is sold.
Property owners will need to raise rents to cover high-
er taxes and the devaluation of their property. In the
end, rent increases will inhibit job growth in San
Francisco.The big picture is that San Francisco's econ-
omy is on its way back to recovery but tax hikes will
endanger that process.

Many of our members struggled through the last few
years. Don't add to the burden by raising taxes.The
ripple effect of your vote will negatively impact all of
San Francisco's economy—now and in the future.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP165-EN-N10





The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument

Please join us in voting NO on Proposition N.

Golden Gate Restaurant Association
The Hotel Council of San Francisco

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Golden Gate Restaurant Association.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. Accuchex Corp., 2. MTK Communications,

3. SF Police Officers Assoc.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition N

Wake up City Hall-revenues are down because we are
in a deep recession, not because tax rates are too low.
Raising taxes, especially on real estate that has
declined in value, won't bring in much revenue and
won't rebuild our economy.

Increasing taxes by as much as 60% on some property
sales will result in higher rents on small businesses,
driving investment to other communities with lower
tax rates.

The city already balanced this year's budget without
new taxes. We don't need the highest property transfer
tax in the Bay Area.

Vote NO on Proposition N.

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce and our 1,500
local businesses.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition N

Proposition N is a painful and unnecessary burden on
both renters and owners in San Francisco. It will harm
our local economy and prolong the economic reces-
sion in San Francisco for years to come.

The City of San Francisco already has a balanced $6.5
billion budget. Proposition N will cost the City thou-
sands of jobs, raise costs for small businesses and fur-
ther delay the City's economic recovery.

By taxing the sale of commercial and residential prop-
erties at an even higher rate. Proposition N will lead to
higher rents for residential units and businesses.
Increased residential rents will increase the threat of
evictions for working families.

Proposition N is the wrong choice in this economy.

Please join us in voting NO on Proposition N.

Citizens for a Better San Francisco
Edward Poole, President
Michael Antonini, Secretary

is the CBSF PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. Edward Poole, 2. Michael Antonini,

3. Chris Wright.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition N

Proposition N is a painful and unnecessary burden on
all San Franciscans.This measure will harm our local
economy, lower property values, and decrease proper-
ty tax revenue.

Proposition N will raise taxes. By taxing the sale and
long-term lease of commercial and residential proper-
ties at an even higher rate. Proposition N will lead to
higher rents for residential units and commercial busi-
nesses.

Increased residential rents will increase the threat of
evictions for working families. Condominium owners
will face even higher HOA fees. On the commercial
side. Proposition N will increase commercial rents so
that prices for local goods and services will go up.The
end result will be more empty store-fronts as San
Francisco businesses get squeezed out.

The City Controller's report on the proposed measure
says it "would make San Francisco less competitive
and reduce job growth." Despite these internal warn-
ings, tax-and-spend politicians on the Board of
Supervisors want to increase the City's bloated payroll
and be able to fund pet projects at the expense of cre-
ating more jobs for San Franciscans.

In these tough economic times, and without meaning-
ful governmental reform, it is unfair to saddle busi-
nesses, residents, and property owners with more
taxes. San Francisco's city government needs to live
within its means, just like every San Francisco busi-
ness and resident must do.

Please join us in voting NO on Proposition N.

Building Owners and Managers Association of San
Francisco

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Building Owners & Managers of SF.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition N

Proposition N Will Cause the City to Lose More than It
Gains

Proposition N will increase the tax sellers of certain
classes of real property must pay the city when title to
the property changes hands. In some cases, the tax
will be increased by a whopping 66 percent. And, that

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP166-EN-N10

Paid Arguments - Proposition N

167

is on top of a 100 percent increase in the same price
range only two years ago.

Is this the kind of tax policy that will cause small busi-
nesses, on which the local economy depends, to locate
here—or will they decide to locate somewhere else?

San Francisco benefits every time title to a property
changes hands. When that occurs through a sale, the
property is reassessed by the city at the sale price —an
amount that usually far exceeds the assessed value of
the property before the sale. Since the annual property
taxes owners pay the city are based on a property's
assessed value, the higher the assessed value, the
higher the annual property taxes paid to the city.

If properties can't attract buyers because the
Proposition N tax has made them unaffordable, they
won't sell. If properties don't sell, they won't be reas-
sessed and the city will lose the annual tax revenues
that would result—revenues needed to sustain vital
city programs and services.

On Election Day, deliver a message to the politicians
behind Proposition N that raising taxes is not the solu-
tion, and that it's time to reduce waste and inefficiency
in government spending.

Vote NO on N.

San Francisco Association of REALTORS®

John M. Lee

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP167-EN-N10

ESJ

(1)	A description o f long-term, preventative problem-solv-
ing strategies and tools that are available to police officers:

(2)	A plan for encouraging full and open communication
and collaboration among Police Department personnel and community
members, including in developing and implementing neighborhood-spe-
cific policing priorities and strategies;

(3)	Strategies for providing culturally and linguistically -
competent police services:

(4)	Goals for allocating police resources between the key
tasks o f community policing: responding to calls for emergency service
and engaging in proactive efforts to identify and solve community prob-
lems that contribute to crime:

(5)	A strategy for developing and maintaining productive
interpersonal relationships between uniformed personnel assigned to
district stations and the residents of the neighborhoods that they serve,
with an emphasis on maintaining the continuity of service of key per-
sonnel involved in community policing efforts: and.

(6)	A redesign of training and professional development to
promote and encourage community-oriented policing initiatives
throughout the Department.

(b) Timeline. The Police Commission shall agendize adoption of
a comprehensive community policing policy within six months of the
effective date o f this ordinance. The Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing before adopting am policy. The Commission shall for-
ward a draft of its initial proposed community policing policy to the
Board of Supervisors and the Mayor at least 10 days prior to its first
public hearing to consider adoption of a policy. Upon adoption, the
Police Commission shall forward the policy to the Board of Supervisors
and the Mayor.

SEC. 2A.89.3. FOOT BEAT PATROL PROGRAM.

(a)	The Chief of Police shall create a comprehensive Foot Beat
Patrol Program in all Police stations.

(b)	The Foot Beat Patrol Program shall include the following
components:

(1)	Designated foot beats, based on current assessments of
the most critical and immediate need for a physical police presence to
address and prevent crime:

(2)	Dedicated patrols of the San Francisco Municipal
Railway that provide a consistent presence on MUNI lines. The specific
MUNI lines patrolled shall be determined based on community input,
needs, and evolving or emerging patterns of criminal activity or sus-
pected criminal activity:

(3)	Regular reviews of the specific routes of foot beats
based on community input. neighborhood needs and evolvins or emerg-
ing patterns of criminal activity or suspected criminal activity: and.

(4)	Regular meetings with community members and foot
patrol officers to develop policing priorities and strategies - including
prevention, intervention and enforcement - that are specific to the
neighborhood and the needs of its residents.

(c)	Foot patrols shall be managed to identify and reduce the
incidence o f crime in the areas most heavily impacted bv crime. The
Chief of Police shall develop guidelines for foot patrol officers that
include the following:

(1)	Make every effort to be known in the community
through consistent interactions with residents. In particular, officers on
foot patrol should establish a regular physical police presence along
commercial corridors, at schools, community centers, senior centers,
homeless shelters, churches and other places of worship, housing
authority developments. after school program locations, and other loca-
tions where seniors, children and youth gather:

(2)	Identify and address crime and nuisance problems that
affect the quality of life and the level of safety of neighborhood residents.
Foot patrol officers should work with neighborhood residents and City
agencies to identify and eliminate any structural, physical, or other fea-
tures that may hide or encourage crime or criminal activity: and.

(3)	Encourage residents’ involvement in activities that con-
tribute to crime prevention, including neighborhood watch activities,
neighborhood clean-up and beautification, and crime prevention educa-
tional programs.

SEC. 2A.89.4. REPORTS ON THE STATUS OF FOOT BEAT
PATROL PROGRAM.

The Police Department shall submit to the Board of Supervisors
bi-annual reports by April 7- and October 1- of every year on the status
of the Foot Beat Patrol Program. The report shall include at least the
following:

(1)	Data regarding all reported crime within the foot beats
described in Section 2A.89.3 by type, during the six-month period prior
to the report and comparisons to previous six-month periods:

(2)	Detailed records of the number of foot beats actually staffed,
including time, date and number of officers assigned:

(3)	Redevelopment or reassignment of staff between stations, or
from sector cars to foot patrols within a station, in response to the
requirements of this ordinance: and.

(4)	Response times to priority calls for service (A and B calls) at
each of the Police stations.

SEC. 2A.89.5. GENERAL WELFARE.

In undertaking the enforcement of this ordinance, the City is
assuming on undertaking only to promote the general welfare. It is not
assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obliga-
tion for breach of which it is liable in money damages to any person
who claims that such breach proximately caused injury.

SEC.2A.89.6. SEVERABILITY.

If any part of this ordinance, or the application thereof, is held to
be invalid, the remainder of this ordinance shall not be affected thereby,
and this ordinance shall otherwise continue in full force and effect. To
this end, the provisions of this ordinance, and each of them are sever-
able. If Section 2 of this ordinance is unenforceable because the voters
approve, with more votes than this ordinance, a City ordinance at the
November 2. 2010 election that bans lying or sitting on public side-
walks. then it is the voters’ intent that the balance of this ordinance
shall be enforceable.

Section 2. Voters find that foot patrols ensuring the regular pres-
ence of officers to enforce existing laws against sidewalk obstruction,
assault, and other disorderly conduct are a more effective vehicle to
address safety and civility in public spaces and to protect the interests
o f merchants and citizens than an outright ban against persons sitting
or lying upon public sidewalks. Therefore, it is the voters’ intent that the
Foot Beat Patrol Program supplant any City ordinance the voters
approve at the November 2. 2010 election that bans lying or sitting on
public sidewalks.

Proposition N

Ordinance amending the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code by amending Section 1102 of Article 12-C - Real Property
Transfer Tax to increase the Real Property Transfer Tax on certain prop-
erties.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman:
deletions are strike-through italics Times New Roman.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code is hereby amended by amending Section 1102 of Article 12-C to
read as follows:

SEC. 1102. TAX IMPOSED.

There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by
which any lands, tenements, or other realty sold within the City and
County of San Francisco shall be granted, assigned, transferred or other-
wise conveyed to, or vested in, the purchaser or purchasers, or any other
person or persons, by his or her or their direction, when the consider-
ation or value of the interest or property conveyed (not excluding the
value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of
sale) (i) exceeds $100.00 but is less than or equal to

38-CP188-EN-N10

$250.OOP.00$250.OOP.00. a tax at the rate of $2.50 for each $500.00 or
fractional part thereof; or (ii) more than $250,000.00 and less than
$1.000.000.00$1.000,000.00. a tax at the rate of $3.40 for each $500.00
or fractional part thereof for the entire value or consideration, including,
but not limited to, any portion of such value or consideration that is less
than $250,000.00; or (iii) more thanat least $1,000,000.00 and less than
$5,000,000.00, a tax at the rate of $3.75 for each $500.00 or fractional
part thereof for the entire value or consideration, including, but not lim-
ited to, any portion of such value or consideration that is less than
$1,000,000.00^ or (iv) at least $5,000,000.00 and above, less than
$10.000.000.00. a tax at the rate of $10.00$7.50 for each $500.00 or
fractional part thereof for the entire value or consideration, including,
but not limited to, any portion of such value or consideration that is less
than $5.000.000.00; or (v) at least $10.000.000.00 and above, a tax at
the rate of $12.50 for each $500.00 or fractional part thereof for the
entire value or consideration. including but not limited to. am portion
of such value or consideration that is less than $10.000.000.00. The
People of the City and County of San Francisco authorize the Board of
Supervisors to enact ordinances, without further voter approval, that
will exempt rent-restricted affordable housing, as the Board may define
that term, from the increased tax rate in subsections; (iv) and (v).

38-CP189-EN-N10