Three Rivers Union School
Measure V

BALLOT TEXT

Summary of Measure V

To provide quality educational programs for the students at Three Rivers School, the
District shall levy a tax of $ 56.00 per parcel annually, for a period of 5 years, with
annual cost of living adjustments, so long as the Three Rivers Elementary School Board
oversees the program and uses all proceeds to directly support single grade classrooms;
maintain the status of a single school district; support band/music, art, sports programs;
and provide educational fieldtrips.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE V

Upon approval by two-thirds of qualified electors, Government Code section 50079 and
section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution authorize school districts to levy
a qualified special tax on all nonexempt parcels of real property within their territorial
boundaries for specified purposes.

If this measure is approved, the Three Rivers Union School District (“District”) will be
authorized to levy a qualified special tax, in the amount of fifty-six ($56.00) per parcel
(adjusted annually by the consumer price index), on all nonexempt parcels of real
property within the District’s boundaries for a period of five years. The stated purpose of
the qualified special tax is to adequately staff and maintain single grade classrooms at
every grade level; continue to provide the arts, band/music, and sports programs, provide
educational fieldtrips, and maintain the autonomy of a single school within the District.
The proceeds from the special tax levy may only be applied to the specific purposes set
out in the full text of the ballot measure.

If this measure is approved, the District must satisfy the accountability and reporting
requirements of sections 50075.1 and 50075.3 of the Government Code.

This measure makes no change to existing law. The electors entitled to vote on this
measure are the registered voters within the boundaries of the District. If the measure is
not approved by at least two-thirds of the votes cast on the measure, the measure will fail
and the qualified special tax will not be levied.

KATHLEEN BALES-LANGE
Tulare County Counsel

s/ Julia J. Roberts

Chief Deputy County Counsel

"The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or Measure V. If you
desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the elections official's office at
(559) 624-7300 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.”

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

Measure_________

For the purpose of maintaining a quality educational program for the students at Three
Rivers School, Three Rivers Elementary School District shall levy a tax of $56.00 per
parcel annually, for a period of 5 years, with annual cost of living adjustments, so long as
the Three Rivers Elementary School Board oversees the program and uses all proceeds to
directly support the educational programs at Three Rivers School.

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the registered voters voting
on the proposition, the District will be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $56.00
per parcel (adjusted annually by the consumer price index), for a period of 5 years, for the
projects listed in the Project List described below, subject to all the accountability
requirements specified below.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in order that the
voters and taxpayers in the District may be assured that their money will be spent wisely.
As required by the law's of the State of California, the proceeds of the qualified special
tax will be deposited into a special account established by the District and will be applied
only to the specific purposes identified below. The District has covenanted to file with its
governing board each year a report stating the amount of the funds collected and
expended and the status of any project authorized to be funded.

PROJECT LIST

The Project list shown below is a part of the ballot proposition and must be reproduced in
any official document required to contain the full statement of the proposition.

The proceeds of the parcel tax will be expended on the following projects. The specific
projects which are described below include all related and incidental costs.

1.	Enable the District to provide the appropriate number of staff to maintain single
grade classrooms at every grade level

2.	Maintain the autonomy and independence of a single school district

3.	Provide an art and band/music program

4.	Provide sports programs for students in 6th - 8lh grade

5.	Purchase necessary equipment and supplies to manage and operate programs

6.	Pay for transportation costs associated with the programs

7.	Provide educational fieldtrips for all students

2