NOVEMBER 2, 2010

GUBERNATORIAL
GENERAL ELECTION

POLLS OPEN
7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

TO SAVE TIME AT THE POLLS

✓ Mark your choices in this Sample Ballot and take it
with you to your polling place.

4/ If possible, vote during the “non-rush hours,”
mid-morning and/or mid-afternoon.

OR VOTE BY MAIL (APPLICATION ON BACK COVER)

SAMPLE BALLOT

AND VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

AVISO / NOTICE

Se puede obtener una traduccion en espanol del folleto de informacion para el votante,

llamando al 654-2664.

A Spanish translation of this voter information pamphlet is available by calling 654-2664.

Mark A. Lunn, Clerk Recorder/Registrar of Voters
Elections Division

800 S. Victoria Avenue, Ventura, CA 93009-1200 I 805-654-2664 I http://recorder.countyofventura.org/elections.htm

001

N VE 001-008



MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS
MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS A LOS VOTANTES

STATE /ESTADO

AA REQUIRES THAT CERTAIN STATE AND LOCAL FEES BE APPROVED BY TWO-THIRDS VOTE. FEES INCLUDE THOSE THAT ADDRESS ADVERSE IMPACTS ON
^0 SOCIETY OR THE ENVIRONMENT CAUSED BY THE FEE-PAYER’S BUSINESS. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Fiscal Impact: Depending on decisions
by governing bodies and voters, decreased state and local government revenues and spending (up to billions of dollars annually). Increased transportation spending and state
General Fund costs ($1 billion annually).

REQUIERE QUE CIERTAS CUOTAS ESTATALES Y LOCALES SEAN APROBADAS POR EL VOTO DE LAS DOS TERCERAS PARTES. LAS CUOTAS INCLUYEN LAS
^0 QUE ESTAN DIRIGIDAS AIMPACTOS ADVERSOS SOBRE LA SOCIEDAD 0 EL MEDIO AMBIENTE CAUSADOS POR LAS ACTIVIDADES COMERCIALES DE LOS

QUE PAGAN CUOTAS. ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL POR INICIATIVA. Impacto fiscal: Dependiendo de las decisiones de los organismos gubernamentales y de los
votantes, menores recaudaciones y gastos de los gobiernos estatal y locales (de hasta miles de millones de dolares anuales). Mayores gastos en transporte y mayores costos del Fondo
General del estado ($1,000 millones anuales).

rym ELIMINATES STATE COMMISSION ON REDISTRICTING. CONSOLIDATES AUTHORITY FOR REDISTRICTING WITH ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES. INITIATIVE
^ / CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Eliminates 14-member redistricting commission. Consolidates authority for establishing state Assembly, Senate, and

Board of Equalization districts with elected representatives who draw congressional districts. Fiscal Impact: Possible reduction of state redistricting costs of around $1 million
over the next year. Likely reduction of these costs of a few million dollars once every ten years beginning in 2020.
rym ELIMINA LA COMISION ESTATAL DE REDISTRIBUCION DE DISTRITOS. CONSOLIDA LA AUTORIDAD DE REDISTRIBUCION DE DISTRITOS EN REPRESENTANTES
£ I ELEGIDOS POR VOTACION. ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL Y LEY POR INICIATIVA. Elimina la comision de 14 miembros de redistribucion de distritos. Consolida la
autoridad de establecer distritos para la Asamblea estatal, el Senado y la Directiva de Impuestos sobre Ventas, Uso y Otros en representantes elegidos por votacion
encargados detrazar distritos del Congreso. Impacto fiscal: Posible reduccion de los costos del estado de redistribucion de distritos de cerca de $1 millon a lo largo del proximo ano.
Probable reduccion de estos costos de varios millones de dolares una vez cada diez anos a partir de 2020.

SCHOOL/ESCUELA

HTo maintain/improve academic programs including reading, writing, science and math; fund computer technology, music and arts; retain highly qualified teachers and minimize
class-size increases; shall Ventura USD raise $4.5 million per year for four years through a parcel tax at a rate described in the voter pamphlet, provided there is independent
citizens’ oversight, senior exemptions, and all funds are spent on neighborhood schools and cannot be taken by the State and used elsewhere?

HPara mantener/mejorar los programas academicos incluyendo la lectura, la escritura, la ciencia y las matematicas; financiar la informatica, musica y las artes; contratar

maestros sumamente competentes y minimizar los aumentos del numero de alumnos en el salon de clase; ^debera Ventura USD recaudar $4.5 millones por ano por cuatro
anos a traves de un impuesto por parcela a una tasa descrita en el panfleto del votante, siempre y cuando que exista la supervision de ciudadanos independientes, las
exenciones para las personas de la tercera edad, y todos los fondos se gasten en las escuelas del vecindario y el Estado no pueda llevarselos y usarlos en otro lugar?

Sample Ballot/

VENTURA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL*
MEASURE“H”

School districts may levy special taxes, upon
approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on a special
tax measure, pursuant to section 4 of Article XIIIA of
the California Constitution and sections 50075-
50077, 50079, and 53722 of the Government Code.

The Board of Education (Board) of the Ventura
Unified School District (Ventura USD) proposes
levying a special tax on real property within the
district. The tax would be set at a rate that would
raise not more than $4.5 Million per fiscal year for
four years. Owners of most taxable real property in
the district would annually pay an additional tax of no
more than $96 per parcel per year for a period of
four years, commencing on July 1, 2011; for multi-
family units, as classified by the Ventura County
Assessor, the rate would be set as follows: 2 to 4
units shall constitute 2 parcels; 5 or more units shall
constitute 5 parcels. Persons age 65 or older, who
own a beneficial interest in and occupy any given
parcel, may request exemption from the special tax
on an annual basis. Ventura USD or the Ventura
County Tax Collector shall specify the exemption
method.

The stated purpose of the special tax is to: preserve
excellence in academic programs, such as reading,
writing, math, and science; minimize class size
increases; minimize layoffs for highly qualified
teachers and employees; continue professional
development by providing training programs and
activities that support high quality teaching; protect
arts and music instruction, course offerings, and
electives; reduce impact of budget cuts by providing
a local funding source that cannot be taken away by
the State or other school districts; protect investment
in education; and ensure accountability by providing
for oversight and independent financial audits of
revenues and expenditures. The proceeds from the
measure must be used only for such purposes.
However, Ventura USD’s Board may determine, in
any given year, that changes in student population,
fiscal constraints, or other (unspecified) changes in
state or federal funding make using other tax
revenues for such purposes infeasible or
inadvisable.

Proceeds of this special tax will be deposited into a
separate Ventura USD fund. Such proceeds will
only be expended for the purposes identified, above,

and an annual written report will be made to Ventura
USD’s Board showing the amount of funds collected
and expended from proceeds of this special tax as
well as the status of any projects to be funded from
its proceeds. Additionally, if this measure is
approved, the Ventura USD Board shall appoint an
independent Community Oversight Committee to
ensure that all funds from this special tax measure
are used for the specific purposes approved by the
voters. This Community Oversight Committee will
report annually on how these funds are expended.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve a $96 per parcel
qualified special tax on parcels within the Ventura
USD for a four-year period of time, as discussed
above. A “no” vote is a vote not to approve the $96
per parcel tax.

‘Section 9500 of the California Elections Code requires the
County Counsel to prepare an impartial analysis for each
school measure appearing on the ballot.

N VE 001-014

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “H”

Measure H will provide Ventura schools with a
guaranteed source of LOCALLY CONTROLLED
FUNDING for academic programs such as math,
science, reading and writing, music, technology, and
art. Additionally, this funding will help our District
support student learning by maintaining smaller
class sizes. By law, Measure H funds can only be
used to improve our neighborhood schools and
CANNOT BE TAKEN BY THE STATE for other
uses.

Measure H will guarantee funding for our local
schools and will allow Ventura Unified to continue to
emphasize academic excellence in our classrooms,
preserve, maintain and improve art and music
programs, and fund computers and updates for other
classroom technology.

Measure H will maintain and improve core
academics such as math, science, reading and
writing. Measure H will provide funds to allow
Ventura Unified to maintain smaller class sizes and
retain highly qualified and experienced teachers.

Measure H protects taxpayers and will be limited to
only four years. By law, it requires that all funds must
be spent locally and cannot be taken by the State or
any other government agency for other uses.
Measure H will offer senior citizens an optional
exemption, and require local citizen oversight.

Our children are this community’s most important
asset and are essential to the city’s future. Measure
H deserves everyone’s support. Quality schools,
excellent academic programs, dedicated teachers
and staff, and community support have kept our
schools strong, which promote our local economy.
Ventura’s children need your support now more than
ever.

Please join us in working to uphold the quality and
integrity of our schools and our community by voting
YES on Measure H!

s/Gary K. Wilde
Parent

s/Dr. James Cowan
Retired Ventura County Superintendent of Schools

s/Kay L. Giles
Parent

s/Stephen P. Blum
Ventura Unified Education Association President/
Community College Trustee

s/Cliff Rodrigues
Former Ventura Unified School District Trustee

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “H”

This new tax guarantees higher taxes for Ventura.
This new tax will guarantee that Ventura Unified
School District employees will continue to receive
100% health benefits. This new tax will guarantee
that businesses and larger homes will pay a greater
portion of the tax and renters with children will pay
almost nothing.

This new tax will not guarantee more academic
programs. It will not guarantee smaller classroom
sizes. This new tax will not guarantee a reduction in
the percentage of administrative personnel staff to
teachers in the classroom. This new tax will not
guarantee that the state will not reduce their funding
further, making the new tax ineffective.

While Measure H would be a locally controlled tax
used for local schools, it will only account for 4% of
the total budget. The other 96% of revenue from
state taxes or local property taxes can still decline
leaving this tax as just another new tax for the
taxpayer to bear.

Once passed, the Ventura Unified School District will
keep this tax forever because VUSD will become
dependent on its revenue and guilt voters into
renewing it in 4 years.

This new tax does address the real issues of
increased employee benefits costs, lack of control of
school spending at the state level, lack of control at
the local school board level and unfunded mandates
of schools programs by the state.

Rather than just taxing the citizens more, address
the real problems facing our schools. VOTE NO ON
MEASURE H.

s/Robert J. Alviani
Ventura Unified School District, Budget Advisory
Committee Member

s/Clifton J. Tingstrom
Retired - Former Ventura Mayor

s/Robert L. McCord
Retired Attorney

N VE 001-015

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “H”

This is a tax to replace State of California revenue
so the schools may continue to pay 100% of their
employee’s health benefits. The Ventura Unified
School District will eliminate 21 teachers and 16
other positions while only reducing less then 3
administrative staff in 2010-11. CLASSROOMS
FIRST, NOT BENEFITS.

Other conflicting issues:

Ventura Unified pays 100% of employee’s health
benefits, a cost that is projected to increase 20-30%.
This tax will go toward health benefits and never get
into a classroom.

Businesses and larger homes, on more than a single
parcel, will pay 2-3 times more taxes.

This tax will become permanent. In 3-4 years, the
next campaign will be to renew the tax to avoid
layoffs or reduced classes.

The total property taxes paid to the School District
continue to increase each year so don’t believe
claims to the contrary.

Once the tax is passed, an independent citizens
oversee committee will be powerless to reverse it
regardless of their findings.

A parcel tax is not tax deductible. However,
communities with a parcel tax see an increase in
personal tax audits.

This new tax comes at a time when Federal and
State taxes are also increasing in 2011.

In 2009-2010, the School District reduced programs,
increased class size and eliminated teachers,
certificated and classified staff, over 45 positions. At
the same time, only 1 administrative staff averaging
over $127,000 in compensation was cut. However,
even with these staff reductions, health benefits
continue to increase.

It is not simple enough to say we need the money.
We all need more money. The citizens should not
have to pay for more administration, 100% of health
benefits and less in the classroom. CLASSROOMS
FIRST, VOTE NO ON H.

s/Robert J Alviani
Ventura Unified School District Budget Advisory
Committee Member

s/Clifton Jack Tingstrom
Retired- Former Ventura Mayor and Councilmember

s/Robert L. McCord
Retired Attorney

s/Robert W. Berry
Retired CFO

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “H”

Measure H will provide Ventura schools with a
guaranteed source of funding to be spent on
essential programs and services to help ensure that
our children are well equipped for the future. By law,
this money can only be spent on Ventura schools
and CANNOT BE TAKEN BY THE STATE.

Quality schools that provide an outstanding
education have always been the cornerstone of our
community. Our children must be able to count on a
continuation of this standard. Measure H will create
a reliable, LOCALLY CONTROLLED FUNDING
source so that Ventura Unified schools can maintain
their solid reputation of excellence.

Measure H will help our schools preserve core
academic programs that prepare our students for
college and career, keep class sizes small, and
attract and retain excellent teachers.

Measure H funds will not pay for administrator
salaries, nor health benefits. VUSD has a cap on
health benefits and all staff have taken furlough
days. The District has made - and continues to make
- significant cuts in administrative costs.

Measure H will last for only four years. An
Independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee and
mandatory annual audits will make sure Measure H
funds are spent as promised.

As citizens and taxpayers, we have all benefited
from past generations’ investments in our schools.
Now it is up to us to see that our children have a
quality education. Please vote YES on Measure H to
protect our schools and our community’s future.

s/Bart Blevel
Attorney

s/Thomas F. Golden, M.D.

Physician

s/Dallas Woodburn
Author, VUSD Alumni

s/Teri Roots
President, Ventura Classified Employees Assn.

s/Ken Trainor
Parent Representative, VUSD Budget Advisory
Committee

N VE 001-016

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE “H”

INTRODUCTION

To maintain/improve academic programs including reading, writing, science and math; fund
computer technology, music and arts; retain highly qualified teachers and minimize class-size
increases; shall Ventura USD raise $4.5 million per year for four years through a parcel tax at a
rate described in the voter pamphlet, provided there is independent citizens’ oversight, senior
exemptions, and all funds are spent on neighborhood schools and cannot be taken by the State
and used elsewhere?

PURPOSE

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain exceptional public
education in our schools, the Ventura Unified School District proposes to levy and collect a qualified special
parcel tax for a period of 4 years, beginning July 1, 2011, at a rate which produces an amount not to exceed
$4.5 million per fiscal year on each assessor’s parcel located within the School District (see “TAX RATE” and
“PROCEDURES” below) and to implement accountability measures in connection with the special parcel tax to
provide oversight and accountability to ensure that funds are used to:

•	Preserve excellence in core academic programs such as reading, writing, science, math,
and technology;

•	Minimize class size increases in all grades and layoffs for dozens of highly qualified
teachers and school employees;

•	Continue teacher professional development by providing training programs and activities
that support high quality teaching;

•	Help protect arts and music instruction, course offerings and electives that provide a well-
rounded education, challenge students, allow students to be highly competitive for
colleges and university admissions, prepare students for the workforce and provide
instructional support for those struggling with the basics;

•	Reduce the impact of deep budget cuts by providing a stable local funding source that
cannot be taken away by the State or other school districts; and

•	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District accountability by
providing for oversight and independent financial audits of revenues and expenditures.

The Board of Education will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes listed above, unless the Board
of Education determines in any given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other
changes in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Board of
Education will not fund any program other than those listed above from the proceeds of the special parcel
taxes.

TAX RATE

The qualified special tax shall be levied in an equal amount against each parcel of taxable real property
in the District in order to produce total special tax receipts in an amount not to exceed $4.5 million per fiscal
year for four years, commencing July 1, 2011. In no event shall the qualified special tax exceed $96 per parcel
per year, except as described below with respect to multi-family rental units. All property that would otherwise

9022-4

N VE 001-017

be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the qualified special tax, and a senior exemption is
available as described below under “SENIOR EXEMPTION.”

A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax bill from the Ventura
County Tax Collector, however, with respect to any parcel that is classified by the Ventura County Assessor as
multi-family residential containing 2 to 4 units shall constitute 2 parcels, and those containing 5 or more units
shall constitute 5 parcels, for the purposes of levying and collecting the special tax against such parcels, to the
extent permitted by law.

Calculation of the qualified special tax will be made annually by an independent financial consultant
retained by the District for such purpose and shall be provided to the Board in writing no later than July 1 of
each year.

In the event total special tax receipts in any single year exceed $4.5 million, such excess will be applied
as a credit in the calculation of the following year’s levy of the qualified special tax.

Based on the current number of parcels in the District in fiscal year 2009-10, the District estimates that
the qualified special tax will be $96 per year per parcel in order to provide $4.5 million in funds for the District,
subject to annual adjustment to provide for changes in the number of parcels.

SENIOR EXEMPTION

In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens, any person of age 65 or older will have the option, on an
annual basis, to request an exemption from the levy of the special tax on any parcel of property owned and
occupied as a principal residence by that person. The exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures
established by the District or otherwise as required by law or by the Ventura County Tax Collector.

PROCEDURES

Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the special tax of $96 per parcel (as described below) shall
become effective as of July 1, 2011 and be collected by the Ventura County Tax Collector at the same time as
and along with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax
collector.

A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax bill from the Ventura
County Tax Collector, however, with respect to any parcel that is classified by the Ventura County Assessor as
multi-family residential containing 2 to 4 units shall constitute 2 parcels, and those containing 5 or more units
shall constitute 5 parcels, for the purposes of levying and collecting the special tax against such parcels, to the
extent permitted by law.

All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the qualified
special tax, and senior citizens may apply for an exemption as described above.

The procedures described herein with respect to the levy and collection of the special tax and
exemptions, and any additional procedures established by the Board of Education, shall be the exclusive
claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special
parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined
by the District, in coordination with the County as necessary.

The District’s Board of Education may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems
necessary or convenient for the administration of the qualified special tax.

9022-5

N VE 001-018

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the
following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special parcel taxes levied in accordance
with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above;
(b) the proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a
separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the special parcel taxes must be
deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the District showing (i)
the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the status of any
projects, programs, or purposes required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as
identified above.

In addition to the accountability measures required by State law, an independent Community Oversight
Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Education to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by
the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The
Community Oversight Committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on
an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds have been spent.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the District’s
adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax,
then the amount of the special parcel taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such
State or Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure
concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this measure has independent value, and the
Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other
provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and
effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

9022-6

N VE 001-019