
<impartial> Impartial Analysis from County Counsel

State law authorizes the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VTA), following a noticed
public hearing, to impose an additional motor vehicle registration fee of up to ten dollars ($10)
on each motor vehicle registered within the County of Santa Clara (County). The proceeds of this
fee can be used for congestion and pollution mitigation programs and projects that bear a
relationship to or benefit the owners of motor vehicles who pay the fee. Such a fee must be
approved by a majority of the voters voting in an election. Not more than 5 percent of fees
collected may be used for administrative costs associated with the programs and projects.

The VTA Board of Directors (Board) proposes to add a $10 fee on each vehicle registered in the
County. Proceeds of this fee would be used for the following purposes: repair potholes, repave
and maintain local streets, improve traffic flow on local roads; improve safety; pay for other
congestion and pollution mitigation projects; and provide matching funds for federal and state
funding. The expenditure plan allocates the fee revenue to transportation-related programs and
projects, consistent with the Metropolitan Transportation Commission's regional transportation
plan and VTA's valley transportation plan. Eighty percent of the fees collected would be
allocated to local road improvement and repair; 15% to the countywide program; and up to 5%
for program administration, with unused program funds disbursed through the county wide
program.

Any vehicle that is exempted under the Vehicle Code from payment of registration fees would be
exempted from the $10 fee. The expenditure plan would be audited annually and periodically
reviewed by the Board to determine if any modifications would be necessary. If the fee is
approved, it would apply to any original vehicle registration and renewal registration occurring
on or after six months following the adoption of the measure by the voters. Collection of the fee

does not have an expiration date.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve an additional $10 fee annually on each motor vehicle
registration that is paid within the County of Santa Clara.

A "no" vote is a vote not to approve an additional $10 fee annually on each motor vehicle
registration that is paid within the County of Santa Clara. <impartialend>





<impartialsigs> Miguel Marquez
County Counsel
By: /s/ Elizabeth G. Pianca
Deputy County Counsel <impartialsigsend>





<favor> Arguments For Measure B

VOTE YES ON MEASURE B

Measure B provides funds to repair potholes and relieve traffic congestion in Santa Clara
County. Revenues are sent directly to cities to fund their highest priority roadway improvements.
The money cannot be used for any other purpose and all of it will remain in Santa Clara County.
Why is Measure B important?

Repairs Potholes and Improves Our Streets

•	Revenues directly benefit drivers by reducing congestion, improving traffic flow and
repairing our aging streets.

•	Provides much needed funding to repair local roadways. Santa Clara County cities
face shortfalls of $144 million per year to maintain aging streets. Measure B will help
address this shortfall.

•	Helps drivers save money on car repairs. A national transportation research group
reports that repairs to vehicles caused by potholes and rough roads cost car owners in
Santa Clara County up to $732 annually. Measure B will improve our local roadways and
decrease the number of costly repairs.

Strengthens Our Ability to Receive Federal and State Funding

•	Helps Santa Clara County become eligible for its fair share of state and federal
transportation revenues by using local funds to leverage outside grants to bring in even
more money for our local streets and roads.

•	Ensures every area within Santa Clara County has a reliable source of
transportation funding that cannot be taken away by Sacramento politicians.

Relieves Traffic Congestion

•	Allows residents to spend less time stuck in traffic by improving traffic flow through
better traffic management technology.

Reduces Pollution

•	Prevents polluted roadway runoff from entering storm drains and contaminating
water supplies through automobile-related environmental mitigation programs, including
roadway sweeping and litter control.

Improves Safety

•	Increases safety on our streets through improved roadway facilities and technology.

Vote YES on Measure B to repair and improve our local roads. <favorend>





<favorsigs> /s/ Sam Liccardo

Chair, Board of Directors, Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority
/s/ Carl Guardino

President and CEO, Silicon Valley Leadership Group
/s/ Ken Yeager

President, Board of Supervisors, Santa Clara County
/s/ Neil Struthers

CEO, Santa Clara & San Benito Counties Building and Construction Trades Council
/s/ Margaret Abe-Koga
Councilmember, City of Mountain View <favorsigsend>





<rebutfavor> Rebuttal to Arguments For
No VTA Car Fee, No on Measure B

The Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) already receives one cent on every dollar of taxable
spending in Santa Clara County. Now the VTA wants $10 more added permanently to your
annual car registration.

There are problems with this "fee":

•	In fact, it’s a tax, not a "fee" so it could easily end up in court.

•	Because Measure B would add the same charge to each vehicle license fee, regardless of
your car's value or number of miles driven, it would most impact those who can least
afford it — like the poor and elderly.

•	The spending plan only gives lip service to the fee requirement that all vehicle owners
receive equal benefit.

Despite extraordinarily difficult economic times and belt-tightening for Silicon Valley businesses
and families, the VTA is another government agency refusing to live within its means. Instead,
the VTA is spending its time (and $1 million of our money) on this election.

Stimulate your household economy by voting NO on this and all the other tax/fee increases on
this ballot.

It's time to send politicians and government bureaucrats a clear message: LIVE WITHIN
YOUR MEANS.

Vote NO on Measure B! <rebutfavorend>





<rebutfavorsigs> /s/ Douglas A. McNea

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association
/s/ Brian S. Darby

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
/s/ Mark W. A. Hinkle
District Resident <rebutfavorsigsend>




<against> Arguments Against Measure B

This is a tax masquerading as a fee. Don't be fooled by Sacramento's enabling legislation that

lowers required voter approval from 2/3 to a simple majority by calling this tax increase a "fee."
California legislators failed to get the message last year, when we rejected continuation of the
largest tax increase in any state's history. Time to let Sacramento know we are wise to their plan
to push tax and fee increases at the local level. Vote NO on Measure B.

Beware: this so-called fee is a permanent increase to your annual car registration cost+yes, that
means it would never expire. Although the current Valley Transit Authority (VTA) spending
plan directs the money to road-related projects, there is no way they can claim to speak for future
distribution of the money. In their own words, "This expenditure plan will be audited annually
and periodically reviewed by the VTA Board of Directors to determine if any modifications to
the plan are needed."

This is just the latest VTA raid on motorists' pocketbooks. If VTA's multi-million-dollar
spending were in correct proportion to our actual usage, with commuter roads at 93% versus
public transit at 7%, revenue for roads would already be more than adequate. Please tell VTA to
correct this inequity. Vote NO on Measure B.

For more information visit http://www.SVTaxpavers.org. <againstend>

<againstsigs> /s/ Douglas A. McNea

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association
/s/ Brian S. Darby

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle
District Resident <againstsigsend>






<rebutagainst> Rebuttal to Arguments Against

Measure B opponents' argument misses the point. Here are the simple facts:

•	Measure B will provide local revenue for local roadway priorities. The funds will stay in
our county and be invested back into our communities. Sacramento cannot take a dime of
the funds away.

•	The funds will directly benefit motorists by improving our roads and relieving traffic
congestion.

•	VTA is obligated under Measure B to distribute the money back to local cities and the
county to fund their highest priority road projects. By law the money can't be used for
any other purposes.

•	VTA's role is limited. It is simply to account for and report on how the funds are used to
ensure accountability to the fee payers.

•	State and federal funding for local streets and roads has not kept pace with the needs -
leaving a multi-million dollar annual shortfall for critical repairs and improvements.

Measure B will benefit our entire county because:

•	It Repairs Potholes and Repaves Our Streets

•	It improves Traffic Flow and Reduces Congestion

•	It Provides Opportunities for Santa Clara County to Receive Additional State and Federal

Transportation Funds

•	It Increases Safety

•	It Invests Local Dollars in Local Communities

•	It Creates Local Jobs

With Measure B, we have an opportunity to invest in our local infrastructure and economy. Vote
yes on Measure B. <rebutagainstend>





<rebutagainstsigs> /s/ Sam Liccardo

Chair, Board of Directors Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority
/s/ Carl Guardino

President and CEO, Silicon Valley Leadership Group
/s/ Neil Struthers

CEO, Santa Clara & San Benito Counties Building and Construction Trades Council
/s/ William Wagner

Chairman of the Board, HMH Engineers
/s/ William Hadaya
President, WMH Corporation <rebutagainstsigsend>





<summary> 

Measure B; Transportation Relief and Road Improvement Measure, Santa
Clara Valley Transportation Authority

To repair potholes, repave and maintain local streets, improve traffic flow on local roads;
increase Santa Clara County's share of state/federal matching funds; improve safety; and pay
for other congestion and pollution mitigation projects; shall the motor vehicle registration fee be
increased $10 for each vehicle registered in Santa Clara County; thereby relieving traffic
congestion, improving streets and reducing polluted, toxic roadway runoff which contaminates
water supplies, with all revenues to remain in Santa Clara County?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve an additional $10 fee annually on each motor vehicle
registration that is paid within the County of Santa Clara.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote not to approve an additional $10 fee annually on each motor vehicle
registration that is paid within the County of Santa Clara. 

An expenditure plan for the increased fee revenues has been adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VTA), the county wide transportation
planning agency that will administer the distribution of the revenues, and provides that:

(1)	Local Road Improvement and Repair Program. 80% of the fee revenues will return to the
cities within the county based on population and to the County of Santa Clara based on miles of
roadway, to be spent on the following transportation-related programs and projects.

Revenue Estimate - $11.2 million (FY 2011)

Eligible Project Categories (includes all expenses for administration, planning, design,
construction, procurement and operation of a Complete Streets System):

•	Pavement Rehabilitation/Reconstruction

•	Traffic Control Signals, Traveler Information & Safety Devices

•	Curb & Gutter Rehabilitation/Reconstruction

•	Roadway-related Facilities to Improve Safety

•	Automobile-related Environmental Mitigation including Roadway Sweeping & Litter
Control

(2)	County wide Program. 15% of the fee revenues will be used for the following county wide
programs and projects.

Revenue Estimate - $2.1 million (FY 2011)

Eligible Project Categories (includes all expenses for administration, planning, design,
construction, procurement and operation of a Complete Streets System):

•	Matching funds for Federal/State/Regional transportation grants applied to any roadway
transportation project included in the adopted Valley Transportation Plan.

•	Intelligent Transportation System Technologies (transportation-related technologies
including traffic control signals, safety and traveler information systems)

•	County wide Environmental Mitigation related to pollution caused by autos and trucks

(3)	Program Administration. Up to 5% of the fee revenues will be used for program
administration for:

•	Expense directly related to administration, oversight, programming, reporting, surveys,
initial election ballot and auditing/accounting of the program.

•	Annual public report of expenditures
Revenue Estimate - $0.7 million (FY 2011)

Unused program administration funds will be disbursed through the Countywide Program.

The expenditure plan will be audited annually and periodically reviewed by the VTA Board of
Directors to determine if any modifications to the plan are needed.

This Measure shall take effect at the close of the polls on the day of the election at which the
increased fee is approved by a majority of the electors voting on the Measure. <summaryend>