San Mateo-Foster City School District

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Measure A

To protect local schools from damaging State budget cuts, provide stable local funding that cannot be taken away by the State, and preserve quality
education by attracting and retaining qualified teachers and staff, maintaining school libraries, providing middle school art and music programs and
supporting small class sizes, shall San Mateo-Foster City School District increase the expiring school parcel tax by $96 for seven years, with annual cost
of living adjustments, exemptions for seniors and independent fiscal oversight?

Full Text	Impartial	Analysis	of	Measure	A

To protect local schools from damaging State budget cuts, provide
stable local funding that cannot be taken away by the State, and preserve
quality education by attracting and retaining qualified teachers and staff,
maintaining school libraries, providing middle school art and music
programs and supporting small class sizes, shall San Mateo-Foster City
School District increase the expiring school parcel tax by $96 for seven
years, with annual cost of living adjustments, exemptions for seniors and
independent fiscal oversight?

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the
registered voters voting on the proposition, the District will be authorized
to levy a qualified special tax of $180.85 per parcel (adjusted annually by
the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Metropolitan Area Consumer price
Index) for seven (7) years on each nonexempt parcel of land in the District.
Parcels which are owned and occupied as the primary residence by at least
one person age 65 or older will qualify for an exemption from the tax upon
filing of an annual application for such exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this
proposition in order that the voters and taxpayers in the District may be
assured that their money will be spent wisely. The District shall file with
its governing board each year a report stating the amount of the funds
collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be
funded. As required by the laws of the State of California, the proceeds of
the qualified special tax will be deposited into a special account established
by the District and will be applied only to the specific purposes identified
below:

(a)	preserving quality education by attracting and retaining
qualified teachers and staff;

(b)	maintaining school libraries;

(c)	providing middle school art and music programs;

(d)	supporting small class sizes

(e)	supporting programs which will enhance student
achievement

The Districts Fiscal Advisory committee shall provide
independent fiscal oversight by regularly reviewing the use of parcel tax
funds to ensure that the funds are spent according to the specific purposes
identified in this measure and that no parcel tax proceeds are taken away
by the State.

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school
district, upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a
qualified special tax for specified purposes.

Currently, there is a special tax of $84.85 on all taxable parcels in
the District levied by the San Mateo-Foster City School District. This tax
is set to expire on June 30, 2010. By this measure, the Board of Trustees
of the District proposes to extend the special tax for a period of seven
years beginning July 1, 2010 and ending June 30, 2017 and to increase
the rate of the tax to $180.85 per year per parcel on all taxable parcels in
the District. The new parcel tax would be adjusted annually for inflation
by the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
Metropolitan Area.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District
which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
San Mateo County tax collection officials. Any property owner aged 65
years or older may qualify for an exemption from the special tax if that
property owner occupies the parcel. All property which would otherwise
be exempt from ad valorem property taxes will also be exempt from the
imposition of the tax.

The stated purposes of the special tax are to: attract and retain
teachers and staff; maintain school libraries, provide middle school art and
music programs, support small class sizes, support programs which will
enhance student achievement.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special
account. An independent citizens’ oversight committee will be established
to monitor the expenditures of the parcel tax revenues. An annual report is
required that accounts for the parcel tax revenues collected and the manner
in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be
levied on property within the boundaries of the San Mateo-Foster
City School District for a period of seven years beginning July
1, 2010 and ending June 30, 2017 in an amount of $180.85 per
year per taxable parcel, adjusted annually for inflation by the
Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
Metropolitan Area. The special tax would be used to: attract
and retain teachers and staff; maintain school libraries, provide
middle school art and music programs, support small class sizes,
support programs which will enhance student achievement.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be
levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote

“yes.”

4

San Mateo-Foster City School District

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument in Favor of Measure A	Argument	Against	Measure	A

We need Measure A to maintain the quality of our local public schools.
San Mateo - Foster City schools benefit from our voter approved parcel tax
that is scheduled to expire in June 2010. Measure A will extend this local
funding for our schools for an additional seven years.

Without passage of Measure A, our schools will lose approximately $6
million a year, on top of the over $18 million in State cuts since 2007. Cuts
of this magnitude will devastate our elementary and middle schools. To
prevent significant cuts to core academic programs, Measure A has been
placed on the February 2010 ballot. The existing tax will be increased by a
modest $8 a month more than taxpayers currently pay.

Passage of Measure A will help prevent the most devastating cuts to core
academic programs and will provide stable local funding that cannot be
taken away by the state. Independent fiscal oversight and audits are required
and seniors are eligible for an exemption.

Measure A will help:

■	Protect our students and schools from damaging State budget
cuts,

■	Maintain school libraries,

■	Attract and retain qualified teachers and staff,

■	Provide middle school art and music programs, and

■	Maintain small class sizes.

Great schools benefit everyone in our community. We need reliable local
revenue to shield our students and schools from the harmful effects of the
ongoing State cuts.

Every dollar raised by Measure A will stay in our community to benefit our
schools and local children. Quality schools help protect property values.
Please join us in protecting our local resources and voting Yes on Measure
A.

Is/

Carole Groom  San Mateo County Supervisor	December 7, 2009
Melodie L Lew  Commissioner, San Mateo Senior Commission	December 7, 2009
William Chow  Realtor	December 7, 2009
Ruth K. Nagler  Community Events Coordinator	December 7, 2009
Phyllis Harris	December 7, 2009
President, San Mateo Elementary Teachers’ Association	

Government’s appetite for higher taxes and still higher spending never
ends.

Consider all the taxes we pay, most of them at record highs:

•	Property Taxes (plus special assessments)

•	School Bond Taxes (districts, county)

•	Sales Taxes (county and state)

•	Income Taxes (state and federal)

•	Vehicle License fees & taxes

•	Gas taxes (state and federal)

•	Telecommunications taxes

•	additional excise taxes on alcohol, tobacco, gasoline, tires, etc.

If high taxes encouraged balanced budgets and responsible spending,
California would be the best-run state in the nation! But the opposite is
true—

Record revenue engendered bloated payrolls and unsustainable benefits
schemes; outstripping our ability to pay for them. No amount of revenue
can prevent politicians from spending more money than they take in.

The state government’s school districts are out-of-control: consuming
almost half of the state budget, and borrowing recklessly, to spend even
more. And, on top of all that, they have the gall to ask for higher parcel
taxes too?

We couldn’t stop Sacramento from raising sales and income taxes last year,
—but we can finally put an end to one long-standing “temporary” parcel
tax. Now is our opportunity.

Please vote ‘NO	This superfluous surtax is just plain greedy.

Is/

Harland Harrison	December	7,	2009

Chair Libertarian Party of San Mateo County, Ca

John J. Jack Hickey	December	7,	2009

5

No Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure A Filed

San Mateo-Foster City School District

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Measure A is about one thing - protecting the quality of education in our
San Mateo-Foster City community.

The opponents of Measure A offer no solutions to address the legitimate
needs of our local schools and their argument is simply incorrect.

Here are the facts about Measure A:

•	Our current parcel tax is expiring. Measure A renews this
important assessment.

•	Measure A increases what we currently pay by $8 per month,
which is a reasonable amount to protect quality education and
local property values.

•	Measure A will be in effect for 7 years only.

•	Measure A funds can only be used to directly benefit our students,
attract and retain quality teachers, keep school libraries open,
provide art and music programs for children and support small
class sizes.

•	All Measure A funds will stay in our community to benefit
local schools and children.

•	An independent fiscal advisory committee will ensure funds are
spent solely to maintain quality classroom instruction.

•	Senior citizens are eligible for a full exemption, which ensures
that Measure A does not burden those living on a fixed income.

•	Measure A provides a frugal, responsible plan to maintain quality
classroom instruction.

Our excellent schools depend on community support. We cannot ignore
what is happening to school funding in California today. Measure A is
essential to protect local schools from further budget cuts.

Please vote YES on Measure A

Is/

Christine Semenza

SM-FC PTA Council President

December 17, 2009

Bessie Stewart Ross

Retired Elementary School Principal

December 17, 2009

Peter Cooperstein

Local Business Owner

December 17, 2009

Anna B. Herrera

Classroom Teacher

December 17, 2009

Dr. Carole Hong OD

Local Business Owner

December 17, 2009

6