SAN DIEGO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Proposition J

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROP J

EMERGENCY TEACHER RETENTION/CLASSROOM EDUCATION MEASURE. To prevent
Math, Science and English teacher layoffs, protect neighborhood schools from state budget cuts,
prevent cuts to essential academic programs, job/college preparation, and preserve small
classes, shall San Diego Unified School District levy a Temporary 5 Year Emergency annual tax
that Sacramento can not take away of $98/single family home, and taxes on other types of
parcels, exempting low income seniors, with independent audits and no money for administrators’
salaries?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds
of the voters voting on the proposition.

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments and rebuttals.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This proposition, if approved by two-thirds of qualified electors voting on the proposition, will
authorize the San Diego Unified School District ("District") to levy a special tax on each parcel of
land within the District. The special tax will be levied as follows: (1) $98.00 per single family
residential parcel; (2) $60.00 per multi-family residential unit; (3) $450 per commercial or
industrial parcel; and (4) $98.00 per vacant or unimproved parcel.

If approved by two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on the proposition, the special tax
described above will be imposed annually for five years beginning on July 1, 2011. The tax will
be collected by the San Diego County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same
manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected. Any property owner aged 65 years or older
may qualify for an exemption from the special tax if that property owner (1) occupies the parcel as
a primary residence, (2) qualifies as a low income individual, and (3) submits an application with
the District.

The proceeds of the special tax can only be used for specified purposes identified in the Full
Ballot Text and such proceeds will be placed into a special account. An independent citizen
oversight committee will be established to monitor the expenditures of the special tax revenues.
State law requires the District to submit an annual report detailing the special tax revenues
collected and the manner in which they have been spent. The District has made this ballot
proposition subject to these requirements.

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the San Diego Unified School District to levy a
special tax on parcels of land within the District.

A "NO" vote is a vote against authorizing the San Diego Unified School District to levy a
special tax on parcels of land within the District.

N SO 193-058

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION J

Emergency Teacher Retention/Classroom Education Measure.

proposition J helps prevent Math, Science and English teacher layoffs and protect neighborhood
schools from massive budget cuts. In the past 3 years, Sacramento cut annual funding for San
Diego schools by $300 million. Proposition J provides Neighborhood school funding
Sacramento can NOT take awav - $50 million a year for 5 years.

Fiscal reform came first. Before placing Proposition J on the ballot, San Diego Unified
School District cut overhead and reformed business practices.

•	Eliminated 500 central office personnel.

•	Increased to 15 mandatory unpaid furlough days for administrators.

•	Imposed 5 mandatory unpaid furlough days/reduced medical benefits for teachers and
support staff.

•	Eliminated millions of dollars in outside contracts/consultants.

Without Proposition J. neighborhood schools face massive teacher layoffs and
devastating cuts to critical academic programs, including:

•	Reducing kindergarten to half-day.

•	Dramatically increasing class size (28-1 for K-3; 35-1 for 4-12).

•	Eliminating school police.

•	Cuts in Math, Science, English and key academic/college prep programs.

•	Nearly 500 layoffs of nurses, janitors, librarians and counselors.

•	Nearly 1.000 teacher layoffs.

By law, Proposition J can only be used for classroom learning.

The law forbids spending Proposition J funds for overhead/administration. Funds must be spent
to relieve classroom overcrowding, prevent Math, Science and English teacher layoffs, and
support classroom technology.

Taxpayer Safeguards.

Independent Annual Audits/Citizen Oversight Committee guarantee Proposition J funds are spent
as promised.

California ranks 47lh in per pupil student spending.

Per pupil funding in California dropped 20% in 3 years. Once a national leader in education funding,
California today ranks 47lh out of 50. The key to a strong economy is an educated workforce.

Proposition J helps our kids receive a quality education to compete for Jobs in the global
economy.

Save Our Schools.

YES on Proposition J.

Neighborhood School Funding Sacramento can NOT take away.

www.SaveOurSchoolsSanDieao.com

ERICKA SENEGAR-MITCHELL
2010 High School Teacher of the Year

BRETT PETERSON
Principal, High Tech High

LAURA SCHUMACHER
President,

San Diego Unified Council of PTAs

JOSEPH KNUTESON
President, San Diego Schools
Police Officers Association

DR. IRWIN MARK JACOBS
Founder,
Qualcomm Inc

PR-32D0-2

N SD 193-059

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION J

Don't believe false promises

You might think Proposition J will pay ONLY for critical classroom programs. NOT TRUE. The
school district can spend the parcel tax on ANYTHING for "classroom learning" including
"emergency teacher retention." That is code for INCREASED salaries and pensions. In fact,
District employees will soon see a 7% salary increase plus additional perks that amount to an
over 14% compensation increase in one year!

No accountability for YOUR tax dollars

Don't be fooled by terms like "Taxpayer Safeguards." Prop J has NO safeguards to hold the
School Board accountable to spend your tax dollars as promised. The School Board has a track
record of wasteful spending, and recently TURNED AWAY millions of dollars in federal "Race to
the Top" funds to help students. Despite increasing per pupil spending by about 34% since 2003,
HALF of District students are still not reading at their own grade level. Without reform, throwing
more money at the problem will not improve performance.

School districts need to live within their means. Reject HIGHER TAXES.

Homeowners already pay plenty in property taxes to fund our schools. The $2.1 billion Prop S
bond was approved only two years ago. The City of San Diego also wants to increase the sales
tax: two tax increases in the middle of a recession! Voting NO on Prop J holds their feet to the
fire and demands the reforms needed to help our students.

Opposed by the San Diego County Taxpayers Association

Vote NO ON PROP J

RALPH R. PESQUEIRA

California State University Trustee Emeritus

Business Owner

RUSSELL BUCKLEY
Retired Teacher

BARBARA KERR

Certified Small Business Owner

RICHARD RIDER
Chairman

San Diego Tax Fighters

T.J. ZANE
Chair

San Diegans Against Government Waste

N SD 193-060

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION J

Worst possible time to increase taxes

The School Board wants to increase your taxes when working families are struggling to make
their mortgage payments and unemployment is in the double-digits. The School Board should
learn to live within its means, just like the rest of us.

Tax Increase would mainly go to pay salary increases

Promises that the money from this tax increase will "only" be spent on certain programs are false.
The School Board has already approved a 7% salary increase for District employees in 2012, and
nothing prevents them from approving further salary and pension benefit increases after the tax is
approved.

Don't reward financial mismanagement with more of your hard-earned money

San Diego property owners already pay plenty in taxes to fund local public education. The
School Board has a poor track record of fiscal responsibility and leadership. If the School Board
can't manage the money they have now, how can we trust them to use new tax revenue
prudently?

This parcel tax hits lower-income residents hardest

The people who can least afford this tax increase will be hurt the most because the same fixed
dollar tax is applied to owners of both modest condominiums and extravagant mansions. The tax
is even imposed on struggling "mom & pop" shops and vacant properties.

The school board needs to get its own house in order

If the School Board would demand reasonable concessions from labor union bosses and
administrators, it wouldn't need to hit taxpayers with yet another bill. The District can save
millions through modest reforms. This tax is a simple money grab - the District has no plan to
balance its budget after this "temporary1 tax ends.

Vote NO on Prop J.

Visit www.sdcta.org for more info.

SCOTT L. HASSON
President,

Tierrasanta Community Council

LANI LUTAR
President & CEO

San Diego County Taxpayers Association

DEBRAS. O'TOOLE
Parent

LINDA L. COCKING
Property Owner

MATTHEW W. REID
President National Association of
Industrial & Office Properties (NAIOP) San Diego

PR-32D0-4

N SD 193-061

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION J

The opponents have their facts wrong.

Reform came first. Before Proposition J, San Diego Schools implemented sweeping fiscal
and budgetary reforms.

•	Led California in establishing Independent Citizens Oversight, Annual Audits and strict
accountability.

•	Reformed budgeting. Cut 500+ administrators. Eliminated millions of dollars in outside
consultants and contractors.

In fact San Diego Taxpayers Association has given San Diego Schools 3 GOLDEN
WATCHDOG AWARDS to recognize San Diego Unified School District initiatives that cut
bureaucracy, overhead and waste.

Teachers and Staff have taken PAY CUTS/INCREASED WORKLOADS

•	All administrators: Medical/benefit cuts. 15 mandatory unpaid furlough days/yr.

•	Forced early retirement and attrition for 1,000+ teachers increased class sizes and
increased teacher workloads

•	All teachers/school staff: Medical/benefit cuts. 5 mandatory unpaid furlough days/year.

In hundreds of neighborhood schools, under difficult circumstances, teachers work hard
and care about our kids.

Sacramento's cuts have slashed neighborhood school budgets nearly $300 million. More
cuts are coming. If Proposition J falls:

•	Up to 1,000 teacher and 500 school staff layoffs,

•	Elimination of school police and vice principals,

•	Severe cuts to academic programs, jeopardizing our students' opportunities to learn and
succeed Proposition J helps prevent massive teacher layoffs and funding cuts to
neighborhood schools with School Funding Sacramento can NOT take away.

Taxpayers Safeguards required bylaw.

•	Oversight. Audits.

•	No funds for administration/overhead.

•	All funds must support classroom learning.

Proposition J is a local proposition. Bylaw. Sacramento can NOT take these funds away

Vote Yes on Proposition J
Save our Schools
Neighborhood School Funding Sacramento can NOT take away.
www.SaveOurSchoolsSanDiego com

DAVID VALLADOLID
President

Parent Institute for Quality Education

DANIEL R. MORALES
Committee Member

Independent Citizens Oversight Committee

DR. RIC HOVDA, Ph D.
Dean, College of Education
San Diego State University

ANDREA MORA BERG
Small Business Owner

RONNIE DELANEY
Board Member
San Diego Tax Payers Advocate

N SD 193-062

FULL BALLOT TEXT

The following is the full text of the Measure to be presented to the voters by the San Diego
Unified School District in the ballot pamphlet:

EMERGENCY TEACHER RETENTION/CLASSROOM EDUCATION MEASURE. To prevent
Math, Science and English teacher layoffs, protect neighborhood schools from state
budget cuts, prevent cuts to essential academic programs, job/college preparation, and preserve
small classes, shall San Diego Unified School District levy a Temporary 5 Year Emergency
annual tax that Sacramento can NOT take away of $98/singte family home, and taxes on other
types of parcels, exempting low income seniors, with independent audits and no money for
administrators' salaries?

I.

TITLE AND PURPOSE

This Measure shall be known as the "Temporary 5-Year Emergency Math, Science, English
Instruction and Class Size Reduction Measure of 2010" or as "Proposition J." The revenues
raised by this Measure shall be used to provide quality educational programs to improve
achievement of San Diego Unified School District students.

FINDINGS

1.	The San Diego Unified School District ("District") is supported by a community that is
committed to creating and maintaining a high-quality learning environment for all of the
approximately 130,000 students who attend public schools within the District, With the support of
the community, the District has made major progress in improving test-scores and offering
educational innovations and choices to students, parents and community partners so as to
prepare students to lead responsible and productive lives in the 21st Century.

2.	Notwithstanding the District's efforts to continue to improve student achievement and offer
educational reform opportunities, however, successive State fiscal crises have led to a dramatic
reduction in the fiscal support for our local schools. The State has failed to adequately fund
public education and, given the severity of the State's current fiscal crisis, is unlikely to do so in
the near future. The District has cut, re-allocated and/or delayed over $200 million in school
services over the past two years.

3.	The District is projecting severe budget deficits in upcoming fiscal years, which will
necessitate further harmful cuts to District programs, schools and employees, including possible
teacher and employee lay-offs and increased class sizes. In short, the District is now faced with
the most severe fiscal emergency of the post-Proposition 13 era.

4.	The impact of these budget reductions, necessitated by the State fiscal emergency, is and
will continue to be endured by every student, parent, school and employee in this District. The
sheer magnitude of these cuts will require class size increases and reductions in personnel,
including lay-offs of qualified teachers, counselor, vice principals, nurses, librarians and other
school employees.

5.	The District continues improving the quality and excellence of its educational programs
across the District despite the sharp reduction of fiscal support. By enacting this Measure, the
electors are providing San Diego schools with an approximate, additional $50 million per year.
This sum is sufficient to allow the District to offset some of the direct impacts to the classroom.

In recognition of the temporary emergency nature of this special tax (referred to herein as "special
tax" or "Temporary 5-Year Emergency Educational Tax"), this special tax will expire at the
conclusion of the 2015-16 fiscal year unless extended by a public vote.

N SD 193-063

FULL BALLOT TEXT (Continued)

1

USE OF REVENUE

The available revenues from this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the following purposes:

•	Category 1:	Direct	Per-Pupil Budget Allocation for Academics and Art. To ensure that

funds from this measure benefit every student and classroom in the District, a $150 per-pupil
allocation of funds will be granted to every District school, based upon the number of students
attending said school who reside within the boundaries of the District. This per-pupil allocation
shall only be used for academic programs at the school site, including teachers, librarians, and
counselors or for educational supplies to support classroom instruction, including, without
limitation, class size reduction; math, science, and English education; career technical and
vocational education; music and art programs that enhance the academic program; and
classroom instructional technology.

•	Category 2; Class Size Reduction. Of the funds remaining after the per-pupil allocation
described above, the District will dedicate approximately 54% of remaining funds to District
programs to prevent any further erosion of class sizes in K-3 below their current level of 24:1,
to restore K-3 class sizes back to a 20-1 ratio as soon as possible, and to help finance a
reduction in class sizes to as small as possible within five to seven years.

•	Category 3:	Math	and	Science Education; English Proficiency. To maintain and enhance

education programs to prepare students for Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM)
careers and to insure students achieve proficiency in English, approximately 33% of the
remaining funds will be dedicated solely for enhancing curriculum, reducing class sizes and
providing professional development to improve teacher skills in Science, Technology, Engineering
and Math (STEM) and English Proficiency in District middle schools and high schools.

•	Category4:	Classroom	Instructional	Technology.	The District has become a national

model for the use of technology in classroom instruction. Funded by Proposition S, the District
has purchased student netbook computers, and placed high speed Internet, wireless networks
and interactive teaching tools in every District classroom. Approximately 13% will be allocated
to maintain and upgrade the District's classroom instructional technology, provide on-going
professional development to improve classroom instruction utilizing the latest technology.

Funds may only be used to support direct classroom instruction, and no funds may be expended
for central office or site or District administrators.

Provisions for Charter Schools. District-sponsored charter schools existing as of November 2,
2010 are entitled to receive a pro-rata share of tax revenue for use by each recipient charter school
in its discretion for purposes described in the categories above, Charter schools may spend the
revenues on some or all of the categories described above, as needed; provided, however, that
expenditure restrictions described within a selected category must be observed. Each year the
Temporary 5-Year Emergency Educational Tax is levied, the District shall determine the percentage
of District-resident student average daily attendance in District-sponsored charter schools compared
to total District-wide average daily attendance. The resulting percentage will determine how much
tax revenue is set aside for charter schools annually. Each year each charter school will receive a
portion of the total amount set aside for charter schools, based on the percentage of each school's
average daily attendance to the total average daily attendance of all District-sponsored charter
schools in existence each year. Funds must be overseen, accounted for and audited according to
the same procedures applicable to the District, as a component of the District's reporting. The
District shall devise the process for calculating the annual share, the timing for distribution of funds
and reporting requirements to carry out the intent of this section.

Should revenues from the Temporary 5-Year Emergency Educational Tax exceed the sums
described above, the Board shall be empowered to allocate any additional funds so generated,
but only to the categories herein delineated. Similarly, if funds generated fall short of projected
allocations, or if the Board determines that the District's financial situation has changed
significantly, the Board shall be empowered to make any necessary cuts or reallocations
consistent with voter intent in enacting this Measure and as permitted under the applicable law.

N SD 193-064

FULL BALLOT TEXT (Continued)

IV.

TAX LEVY

A special tax shall be levied on parcels in the District, commencing in the 2011-12 fiscal year, as
follows.

A.	Tax Base and Rate

1.	Parcel of Taxable Real Property. The Temporary 5-Year Emergency Educational Tax shall
be levied on every parcel of taxable real property "Parcel of taxable real property" means any
unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes
from the San Diego County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. All property that is otherwise
exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the Temporary 5-Year Emergency Educational Tax in such year.

2.	Uniform Application. The Temporary 5-Year Emergency Educational Tax shall be uniformly
applied to each parcel of taxable real property within the following property classifications.

Type of Property_____________________Annual Amount of Tax

•	Single Family Residential	$98	per parcel

•	Multi-Family Residential	$60	per unit

»	Commercial/lndustrial	$450 per parcel

•	All Vacant, Unimproved Parcels	$98	per parcel

For purposes of determining the rate of tax above, the following definitions shall apply:

•	"Single Family Residential" includes parcels containing one or both of the following
kinds of residential living units (a) those with no common walls on a single Assessor's
parcel (i.e., single family detached homes); and (b) those with common walls each of
which is assigned a unique Assessor's parcel number (i.e. condominiums and
townhouses), each of which shall be treated as a Parcel of Taxable Real Property; and
(c) mobile homes, each of which shall be treated as a Parcel of Taxable Real Property.

•	"Multi-Family Residential" means a residential living unit with common walls on an
Assessor's parcel on which other units are located. Such parcels include, but are not
limited to, duplexes, parcels with two (2) or more living units on a single assessor's
parcel; apartment buildings with two (2) or more units (up to an unlimited number of
units); and any and all other multi-family residential parcels.

•	Commercial/lndustrial means all improved Parcels of Taxable Real Property that are not
Single Family Residential or Multi-Family Residential. Commercial/lndustrial property
includes, but is not limited to, retail buildings, shopping centers, hotels, motels, service
stations, office buildings, hospitals, trailer parks, warehouses, transportation facilities,
storage facilities, utilities, agricultural and farmland, light and heavy industrial and
recreational land.

Any parcel that does not fall clearly within any category above shall be taxed $98 per parcel

annually. Every year, all Parcels of Taxable Real Property that were classified as Vacant,

Unimproved Parcels in the prior fiscal year, may be reclassified into another category if a

building permit has been pulled as of January 1 of that year

3.	Method of Collection. The Temporary 5-Year Emergency Educational Tax shall be collected
by the County Tax Collector at the same time, in the same manner, and subject to the same
penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the County Tax Collector. Unpaid special
taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until
paid The Temporary 5-Year Emergency Educational Tax shall be levied on all parcels of taxable
real property in the District for a period of five (5) years, commencing in the 2011-2012 fiscal year.
With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax Assessor
shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision
shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special lax, including
the Senior Citizen Exemption and the classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax,
the decisions of a District administrative review panel shall be final and binding.

PR-32D0-8	N	SD	193-065

FULL BALLOT TEXT (Continued)

4.	Low Income Senior Exemption from Special Tax. Upon application for therefore, an
exemption from payment of the Temporary Emergency Educational Tax may be granted on any
parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over as of July 1 of any applicable tax
year who occupies said parcel as a principal residence and who qualifies as "low income."
("Senior Citizen Exemption") "Low income" means that the taxpayer is receiving Supplemental
Security Income ("SSI") and has been determined by the Social Security Administration to be low
income for purposes of the SSI program and can provide unequivocal confirmation of such
determination to the District. The District shall annually provide to the San Diego County
Treasurer-Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax official ("County Tax Collector") a list of
parcels that the District has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption.

5.	Tax Roll Preparation. On or before August 10 of each fiscal year (or as otherwise specified
by the County Treasurer-Tax Collector or other tax official), the District shall provide the San
Diego County Treasurer-Tax Collector with data required to enable the levy of the Temporary
Emergency Educational Tax on each parcel of taxable real property.

B.	Term

The tax levy shall be commence in the 2011-2012 fiscal year and shall terminate on the
conclusion of the 2015-16 fiscal year, unless renewed by the qualified electors of the District.

C.	Constitutional Spending Limit

Pursuant to Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, the Constitutional Appropriations Limit of the
School District shall be increased by the amount collected by the levy of this Temporary 5-Year
Emergency Educational Tax in accordance with the applicable requirements of the state law.

D.	Savings/Severability Clause

If any sentence, clause, section, or part of this Measure or any tax against any individual or any
groups specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, such unconstitutionality,
illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, or part of this Measure and shall not
affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences; clauses, sections, or other parts of
this Measure. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the electorate that this Measure would
have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid sentence, clause, section, or part
thereof, not been included.

V.

ACCOUNTABILITY AND REPORTING

The proceeds of the Temporary Emergency Educational Tax shall be applied only for the specific
purposes identified above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into an account,
which shall be kept separate and apart from other accounts of the District. No later than January
1 of each year while the special tax is in effect, commencing January 1, 2011, the chief fiscal
officer of the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing the amount of funds
collected and expended during the prior fiscal year, and the status of any project or description of
any programs authorized to be funded by this Measure.

The District shall also arrange for an annual, independent audit of all revenues and expenditures
of funds generated by this measure and cause that audit to be published on the District's website.
The audit shall be completed and published within 90 days of the end of each Fiscal Year that this
measure shall be in effect.

In addition to the accountability measures required by law, the Board of Education shall establish
an Independent Citizen Oversight Committee ("ICOC") comprised of parents, teachers,
community members and taxpayer representatives, to ensure that proceeds of the Measure are
spent only for the purposes approved by the voters. The ICOC will monitor expenditures funded
by the measure and report annually to the Board and community. The Board of Education shall
provide by resolution for the composition, duties, and other necessary information regarding the
ICOC's formation and operation; provided, however, that the ICOC shall be an official advisory
committee to the Board, its meetings shall comply with the provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act,
and its members shall be subject to the District's Conflict of Interest Code.

N SD 193-066

It’s Our Water San Diego

Everything that goes down the storm drain ends up in
our rivers, lakes and eventually in our ocean.

With over 3 million residents in our County,
we all need to continue to do our part to keep pollution
out of our waterways.

Help keep our water clean by following these easy tips:

« Never dump anything into the storm drain

*	Sweep paved walks, driveways and gutters

*	Avoid over-watering your lawn and garden

•	Recycle and properly dispose of waste

•	Pick up after your pet

Remember, only rain down the storm drain!

For more information, call
1-888-THINK BLUE (1-888-844-6525)
or visit our website at
www.thinkbluesandiegoregion.org

This page would have been blank due to printing layouts.

The Registrar of Voters has used this space to provide additional Information.

thinkBLUE

San Diego
Region

FP-05-09

N SD 193-067