Compiled by the City of Half Moon Bay City Clerk Siobhan Smith
Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

City of Half Moon Bay

Measure K

“Half Moon Bay Vital City Services Measure. To protect quality of life in the City of Half Moon Bay by maintaining essential local services
including local library hours, 911 emergency police response, youth and senior programs and services, a local police department, park and
recreational programs, street and pothole repair and other general City services, shall the City of Half Moon Bay levy a one cent sales tax, which
the State cannot take away, and with independent annual audits and all funds staying local?”

Full Text

ADDING CHAPTER 3.10 TO THE HALF MOON BAY
MUNICIPAL CODE
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1.	The Council of the City of Half Moon Bay ordains

as follows: that a new Chapter 3.10 shall be added to Title 3, Revenue
and Finance, subject to voter approval as set forth herein, as follows:

“Chapter 3.10
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Sections:

3.10.010	Title.

3.10.020	Operative Date.

3.10.030	Purpose.

3.10.040 Contract with State.

3.10.050 Transactions Tax Rate.

3.10.060 Place of Sale.

3.10.070 Use Tax Rate.

3.10.080 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

3.10.090 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes.

3.10.100 Permit Not Required.

3.10.110 Exemptions and Exclusions.

3.10.120 Amendment or Repeal.

3.10.130 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

3.10.140 Severability.

3.10.150 Use of Proceeds.

3.10.160 Fiscal Accountability Provisions.

3.10.010	TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City
of Half Moon Bay Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The
City of Half Moon Bay hereinafter shall be called “City.” This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of
the City.

3.10.020	OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

3.10.030	PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve
the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called
for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those

provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization
in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to,
and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

3.10.040 CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the
operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board
of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

3.10.050 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege
of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
City at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts of
any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property
sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date
of this ordinance.

3.10.060 PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this
ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery
to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place
to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board
of Equalization.

3.10.070 USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed
on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other

Compiled by the City of Half Moon Bay City Clerk Siobhan Smith
Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

City of Half Moon Bay

consumption in said territory at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales
or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.10.080 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE
LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all
of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby
adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set
forth herein.

3.10.090 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE
LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall
be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the
title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would
require action to be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not
necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide	an exemption from this

tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word
“State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this
State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

3.10.100 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller ’s permit
has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit
shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.10.110 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or
use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city
and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales	of	tangible personal property, other

than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in which the
sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government.

2.	Sales	of	property to be used outside the

City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer
or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

a.	With	respect to vehicles (other

than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With	respect	to	commercial

vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-
of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if
the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property
which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3)
and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

Compiled by the City of Half Moon Bay City Clerk Siobhan Smith
Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

City of Half Moon Bay

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by
this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this
City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which
have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products
purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire
or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of
any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property
for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3)
and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a
retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required
to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into
the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving
the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business
of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the
authority of the retailer.

7.	“A	retailer	engaged	in	business	in	the

City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle,
vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to
the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.10.120 AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date
of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect
the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

B.	The City Council may amend this chapter without
voter approval only to make minor technical adjustments
consistent with the purposes set forth in this ordinance and
applicable laws or as necessary to comply with the law, so
long as such amendments do not increase the amount of tax
imposed by this chapter.

3.10.130 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of
the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under
this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to
be collected.

3.10.140 SEVERABILITY. If any provision ofthis ordinance
or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.

3.10.150 USE OF PROCEEDS. The proceeds from the
transactions and use tax imposed by this ordinance shall be
for general governmental purposes of the City and shall be
received into the general fund of the City. Nothing herein
shall bind the City to use the proceeds for any specific purpose
or function.

3.10.160 FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS.

The amount generated by this new general purpose revenue
source and how it was used shall be included in the annual
audit of the City’s financial operations by an independent
certified public accountant.

3.10.170 AUTOMATIC REPEAL OF TAX. The

transactions and use tax adopted by this Chapter shall be
automatically repealed and shall be of no further force and
effect after seven years from the operative date set forth at
Section 3.10.020.”

Section 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying
and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take
effect immediately, but it shall not become operative until approved by
a majority of the voters voting at the general municipal election to be
held November 2, 2010.

Section 3. PUBLICATION. The City Clerk shall cause this Ordinance
to be published in accordance with the requirements of Section 36933
of the Government Code of the State of California.

Compiled by the City of Half Moon Bay City Clerk Siobhan Smith
Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

City of Half Moon Bay

Impartial Analysis of Measure K	Argument in Favor of Measure	K

The City Council of the City of Half Moon Bay has placed Measure K
on the ballot to ask the voters to approve a temporary one percent (1%)
transactions and use tax within the City. The proposed tax would add a
cent to the price of an item that costs a dollar, or one dollar to the price
of an item that costs $100. Because Measure K is a “general tax,” it
can be used for all general City services; it is not a “special tax” that
restricts the funds to specific purposes. Therefore, as explained in the
ballot question, the City may use the funds for a variety of purposes,
including but not limited to maintaining current levels of police
services, crime prevention and investigation resources; police staffing;
earthquake preparedness; afterschool programs for children and teens;
senior services; library services and parks and recreation programs.

The tax would terminate automatically seven years after collection
begins. Measure K requires the City’s independent auditors to annually
prepare a publicly available report on the collection, management and
expenditure of revenue from the tax. Additionally, it requires oversight
of all expenditures by a Citizens Advisory Committee.

Currently, the cumulative tax on retail sales in Half Moon Bay is
9.25%, of which Half Moon Bay’s share is only 0.75%. The remainder
primarily goes to the State of California, with a small percentage
dedicated to county transportation funding.

Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and use
tax” and “transactions and use tax.” With some exceptions, both are
levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail.
Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the
State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.

Measure K would authorize a 1% transactions and use tax, which
would increase the total sales tax rate to 10.25%. If approved, this
additional increment would go exclusively to the City’s general fund
and be available to support the full range of local municipal services.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the one cent tax
for seven years, with annual audits and review by Citizens’ Advisory
Committee. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax. Measure K would be
approved if it received a simple majority of “Yes” votes.

DATED: August 23, 2010

/s/ Anthony P. Condotti

City Attorney

City of Half Moon Bay

We have already made drastic cuts to our services and programs in Half
Moon Bay. Our community can’t take any more! State budget cuts, the
declining economy, and Sacramento “takeaways” have dramatically
reduced the money available for local services.

Vote YES on K - Half Moon Bay’s Vital City Services Measure to
prevent further cuts to our vital services that would harm our community
and quality of life.

YES on K helps us keep our LOCAL Half Moon Bay Police Department!
With only 12 police officers left we simply cannot afford any more cuts.
Just imagine Half Moon Bay without our own police - that isn’t the
town we all love to live in! But, without additional local revenue that’s
what could happen, we would be forced to completely eliminate our
police department. Vote Yes on K to keep our community safe!

Yes on K allows us to protect the services our community values
including maintaining public library facilities and services, senior
programs, our local police department, City streets, and local trails.

We must maintain the recreation programs we have left—the parks and
recreation department has already cut its budget by more than 50%, is
closed every Friday, and has less than 2 employees left.

YES on K ensures we continue our tradition of local control—Half
Moon Bay sticks together to protect our vital services. This measure
will generate local funds that cannot be taken away by Sacramento.

Yes on K includes tough accountability provisions such as requiring
oversight by the citizens’ advisory committee, public expenditure
reports and annual independent audits.

YES on K is temporary so we can get back on our feet while still
preserving the quality of life in Half Moon Bay.

Please join Police Officers, Local Business Owners, Friends, and
Neighbors—Vote YES on K—to keep our community safe and
financially stable. Questions? Visit www.hmbcity.com

/s/ Naomi Patridge	August 12, 2010
Vice Mayor	
/s/ Jordan Boyd	August 12, 2010
President, Police Officers Association	
/s/ Cara Schmaljohn	August 13, 2010
Senior Advocate	
/s/ Bonnie Dunham	August 13, 2010
Retired	
/s/ Marina M. Fraser	August 13, 2010

Mayor

4

No Argument Against Measure K Submitted