CITY OF SAN RAFAEL MEASURE C	
MEASURE C: To provide a con- ■ sistent, locally-controlled funding source, augmenting current gener- al fund allocations for the San Rafael Public Library, for expanded hours, improv equipment, materials, and services for chi and adults, shall the City of San Rafael be levy an annual $49 parcel tax (slightly hig multiple-unit residential parcels) for a per years, with oversight by an independent c mittee and with exemptions for senior citiz(	YES  NO  rcd facilities, ldren, teens, Authorized to her rates for iod of seven itizens com- ;ns?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE C

If approved by the voters, this measure would adopt a
new City of San Rafael ordinance imposing a new Special
Library Services Parcel Tax on all residential and non-res-
idential parcels in San Rafael, the proceeds of which
would be used exclusively for services and facilities for
the San Rafael Public Library.

If approved by the voters, the special parcel tax would
be imposed each year for seven years starting in fiscal year
2010-2011, at the rate of $49 per parcel for single family
residential parcels; $49 per parcel for nonresidential
parcels; and $49 per parcel plus $10 per living unit for
multifamily residential parcels up to a maximum of
$1,000 per year. The tax would be included on and payable
with the property owner’s Marin County property tax bill.

The measure would provide an exemption from the
tax, upon approved application to the City’s Library
Director, for any person at least 65 years old who owns a
parcel used solely for owner-occupied single-family resi-
dential puiposes.

The measure would require that the tax proceeds be
used only locally to staff, provide, maintain, and improve
hours of operation, services, equipment, facilities, and
materials at the San Rafael Public Library; to provide and
improve Library programs and materials for children,
teens, adults, seniors, literacy learners and people with
disabilities; and to help with the City of San Rafael’s long-
term goal of setting aside funds for necessary facility
improvements to the San Rafael Public Library.

The measure would require that the tax proceeds be
placed into a separate account subject to an annual report
by the City’s Finance Director.

The measure would require that the City Council, with-
in 60 days after the election, establish an independent cit-
izens’ oversight committee to review the collection and
expenditure of special tax revenues, with duties to be
established by resolution of the City Council.

To become effective, this measure must be approved
by two-thirds of the electors voting at the election.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

s/ROBERT F. EPSTEIN
City Attorney of San Rafael

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

City of San Rafael Measure C
(Special Library Services Parcel Tax), June 2010

Measure C asks residents to contribute the equivalent of
two book purchases a year, so that residents of all ages can
enjoy the benefits of unlimited access to information and
services.

The passage of Measure C will:

•	Restore open hours lost over past years due to funding
cuts

•	Avoid further reductions slated for July 2010

•	Restore a children’s librarian position

•	Allow the Library to increase its outreach to San Rafael
schools whose libraries have been hit hard by recent bud-
get cuts

•	Provide job seekers with increased hours of access to
employment tools and opportunities

•	Provide all residents access to high quality information
in print and electronic form

•	Set aside a portion of the annual tax money to restore
library reserves depleted to maintain basic services

•	Establish an appointed Citizen Oversight Committee to
assure the money raised is used for its intended purposes

•	Bring San Rafael Public Library support into alignment
with increased demand, and the level provided by other
Marin County libraries

•	Keep our tax dollars in San Rafael to assure that our
Library will serve future generations

The San Rafael Public Library cooperates seamlessly with
other Marin public libraries, effectively maximizing its
budget for technology and materials purchasing. An
investment in your Library helps to keep this vital institu-
tion abreast of current technology. An excellent public
library is a community asset that sustains property values.
Measure C provides an exemption for senior citizens,
assuring that those who are on fixed incomes won’t be
unfairly assessed.

The passage of Measure C means that your San Rafael
Public Library will continue to serve children and adults in
their pursuit of knowledge, awareness and understanding
of their world. Passage of Measure C is a critical invest-
ment in our community.
s/ISABEL ALLENDE, Author
s/DAVID DODD, San Rafael City Librarian
s/THOMAS LOHWASSER
Superintendent, Dixie School District
s/SANDRA MARGARET SMITH
1st Vice President, League of Women Voters of
Marin County
s/MICHAEL WATENPAUGH
Superintendent, San Rafael City Schools

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C
WAS FILED

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

ATTACHMENT “A”

ORDINANCE NO.________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
ADDING CHAPTER 3.36 TO THE SAN RAFAEL
MUNICIPAL CODE ENTITLED “SPECIAL
LIBRARY SERVICES PARCEL TAX.”

WHEREAS, the City of San Rafael projects a budget
deficit in excess of $3 million next year, requiring further
reductions in Library program funding; and

WHEREAS, the San Rafael Public Library operations
arc funded from the City’s General Fund, necessary reduc-
tions to which have resulted in ongoing cuts to the
Library’s budget over the past six years, including the loss
of a part-time Children’s Librarian and additional positions
in support staff; and

WHEREAS, the Library’s support groups, in particular-
the Friends of the Library, have provided ongoing opera-
tional and supplemental programming support for the
Library through the ongoing efforts of dedicated volun-
teers, amounting to nearly $400,000 over the past eight
years, largely to support ongoing purchases of books and
other materials following budget cuts; and

WHEREAS, use of the Library has been continually
increasing for several years, with particularly significant
increases in several measures of usage, including circula-
tion and attendance, due to the economic downturn of the
past two years, and recent cutbacks to school library ser-
vices; and

WHEREAS, the City has sought for years to find a
means of setting aside funds for necessary facility, equip-
ment and technology improvements to the Library; and

WHEREAS, a local parcel tax dedicated to public
library services and facilities would augment the capacity
of the City of San Rafael to provide quality library services
to its residents, over and above the proportional amount of
the City’s general fund currently allocated to the Library;
and

WHEREAS, imposition of a local special parcel tax
dedicated to public library services and facilities is autho-
rized by Government Service Code section 53717; and

WHEREAS, the proceeds of a special parcel tax im-
posed hereunder for a period of seven (7) years would not
cause the City to exceed its appropriations limit pursuant to
California Constitution Article XIIIB; and

WHEREAS, funds from a locally approved tax could
not be taken away by the state and would stay in San Rafael
to benefit local residents.

NOW, THEREFORE, the People of the City of San
Rafael do ordain as follows:

DIVISION 1:

A new Chapter 3.36 is hereby added to the San Rafael
Municipal Code to read as follows:

Chapter 3.36

SPECIAL LIBRARY SERVICES PARCEL TAX
3.36.010 - Purposes.

This Chapter is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and the City Council directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those puiposes:

A.	To staff, provide, maintain and improve hours of
operation, services, equipment, facilities, and materials at
the San Rafael Public Library; and

B.	To provide and improve programs and materials for
children, teens, adults, seniors, literacy learners and people
with disabilities at the San Rafael Public Library; and

C.	To help with the City’s long-term goal of setting
aside funds for necessary facility improvements to the San
Rafael Public Library.

3.36.020 - Definitions.

As used in this Chapter:

A.	“Library” means the San Rafael Public Library.

B.	“Living unit” means an individual dwelling space
intended for occupancy by one or more persons, as may be
set forth in the rolls of the County Assessor, and shall
specifically include a mobilehome as defined in section
20.04.020H of this Code.

C.	“Multifamily residential parcel” means any parcel
of land, developed or undeveloped, wholly or partially
located within the City of San Rafael, for which the County
Assessor of Marin County has assigned an assessor’s iden-
tification number and which is listed on the rolls of the
County Assessor as used for multiple family or duplex res-
idential use.

D.	“Nonresidential parcel” means any parcel of land,
developed or undeveloped, wholly or partially located
within the City of San Rafael, for which the County Asses-
sor of Marin County has assigned an assessor’s identifica-
tion number and which is listed on the rolls of the County
Assessor as used for any use other than single family resi-
dential or multiple family or duplex residential use.

E.	“Parcel” means any parcel of land, developed or
undeveloped, wholly or partially located within the City of
San Rafael, for which the County Assessor of Marin
County has assigned an assessor’s identification number.

F.	“Single family residential parcel” means any parcel
of land, developed or undeveloped, wholly or partially
located within the City of San Rafael, for which the County
Assessor of Marin County has assigned an assessor’s iden-
tification number and which is listed on the rolls of the
County Assessor as used for single family residential use.

G.	“Tax” means the Special Library Services Parcel
Tax imposed under the provisions of this Chapter.

3.36.030	- Imposition of Tax.

An annual Special Library Services Parcel Tax is here-
by imposed pursuant to City Charter and Government
Code section 53717 on each parcel within the City of San
Rafael for the purposes set forth in this Chapter, at the fol-
lowing rates:

Single family residential parcel:

Forty-nine dollars ($49) per year per parcel.

Multifamily residential parcel:

Forty-nine dollars ($49) per year per parcel
plus Ten dollars ($10) per living unit, up to a
maximum of $1,000 per year per parcel.

Nonresidential parcel:

Forty-nine dollars ($49) per year per parcel.
3.36.040-Term.

The Special Library Services Parcel Tax imposed by
this Chapter shall be levied annually for seven (7) years
commencing in fiscal year 2010-2011.

3.36.050	- Proceeds of Tax; Accountability Measures.

All proceeds of the Special Library Services Parcel Tax
imposed and levied pursuant to this Chapter shall be
deposited into a separate “Special Library Services Parcel
Tax” account to be used exclusively locally for the Library
for the puiposes set forth in this Chapter. The City’s
Finance Director shall prepare an annual report pursuant to
Government Code Section 50075.3.

3.36.060	- Persons Liable for Tax; Collection of Tax.

The tax imposed by this Chapter is not an ad valorem
tax on property. The tax imposed by this Chapter is due
from every person who is the owner of a parcel within the
City of San Rafael, as reflected upon the rolls of the County
Assessor of Marin County, unless that person or parcel is
otherwise exempted by this Chapter. The Marin County
Tax Collector shall collect the tax in the same manner and
subject to the same penalties as County property taxes are
collected. The full amount due under this Chapter shall
constitute a debt to the City. An action for the collection of
any amount due may be commenced in the name of the
City in any court having jurisdiction of the cause.

3.36.070	- Exclusions and Exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as impos-
ing a tax upon any person where imposition of such tax
upon that person would be in violation of either the United
States Constitution or the California State Constitution or
other applicable law.

B.	The tax imposed by this chapter shall not be levied
in any tax year upon any federal, state or local government
entity.

C.	Any owner of a parcel used solely for owner-occu-
pied single-family residential purposes who has attained, or
will have attained, the age of 65 years or older prior to July
1 of the tax year, may obtain an exemption from the Special
Library Services Parcel Tax for that parcel upon approval
of an application of such owner submitted to the Library
Director or his or her designee. Any one application from a
qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel
for the remaining term of the tax so long as such applicant
continues to own and use the parcel as his or her principal
residence.

3.36.080	- Independent Citizen Oversight.

Within 60 days after the effective date of this Chapter,
the City Council shall establish a Special Library Parcel
Tax Committee to review the collection and expenditure of
tax revenues collected under the authority of this Chapter.

The Committee shall consist of at least five members, who
shall be residents of the City. The terms of the Committee
members and their specific duties shall be established by
resolution of the City Council.

DIVISION 2:

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining por-
tions of this Ordinance. The Council hereby declares that it
would have adopted the Ordinance and each section, sub-
section, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sen-
tences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.

DIVISION 3;

This ordinance levying the tax described herein shall be
effective ten days after the date on which the City Council
has declared its approval by at least two-thirds of the City’s
electors voting at the special municipal election to be held
on Tuesday, June 8,2010; and the Special Library Services
Parcel Tax so established shall be levied annually for seven
(7) years, beginning in fiscal year 2010-2011 and shall
thereafter expire unless extended with the approval of two-
thirds of the electors voting upon the extension at a gener-
al or special municipal election.