a surcharge of six percent to the extent that it covers any portion of the
period prior to January 1. 2011. and an eight percent surcharge to the
extent that it covers am portion of the period on or after January 1.
2011. and such payment, charge, bill or rent due shall be apportioned
on the basis of the ratio of the number of days falling within said peri-
ods to the total number of days covered by such payment. Where any
surcharge has been paid hereunder upon any rent without any right of
occupancy there for, the Tax Collector may by regulation provide for
credit or refund of the amount of such tax upon application therefor as
provided in this Code.

(c)	Authority of the Board of Supervisors to Amend this Section.
The Board of Supervisors may reveal or amend this Section 502.6-3
without a vote of the People except as follows: under Article XIII C of
the California Constitution, only the voters may adopt any amendment
that increases the rate or extends the scope of the tax beyond the levels
or scope this Ordinance authorizes. The Board of Supervisors may
alter the rate of tax that this Section 502.6-3 imposes by setting it at any
rate that does not exceed the amount or rate the voters approved.

(d)	Term of Surcharge. The surcharge that this Section 502.6-3
imposes shall not extend beyond January 1. 2014.

SEC. 507. INTERPRETATION OF THE TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX.

Article 7. Tax on Transient Occupancy o f Hotel Rooms (TOT) o f
the San Francisco Municipal Code. Business and Tax Regulations Code.
(File No. 7573-2. Ord. 87-61) became effective on July 1. 1961. Article
7 imposes a transient occupancy tax on every occupancy of a guest
room in a hotel in the City and requires every occupant to pay the tax
along with the rent for the room. The rate o f the tax, plus surcharges
added subsequent to the original enactment of the tax, is currently 14
percent of the rent.

In enacting the Transient Occupancy Tax, the Board of
Supervisors intended that the entire consideration the occupant pays for
the room rental be subject to the tax and that the person or versons
receiving or collecting the taxable rent from the occupant, regardless of
their relationship to the hotel or the occupant, remit the tax to the City.
The voters of the City and County of San Francisco hereby ratify and
affirm the Board's original intent in enacting this Article 7.

Proposition K

Ordinance amending the San Francisco Business and Tax
Regulations Code by amending Section 6.2-13 of Article 6 -
Common Administrative Provisions, Section 501 of Article 7 - Tax
on Transient Occupancy of Hotel Rooms, and Section 601 of Article
9 - Tax on Occupancy of Parking Space in Parking Stations, to
amend and consolidate the definition of “Operator” and to clarify
who is responsible for collecting and remitting third-party taxes;
and amending Section 501 of Article 7 - Tax on Transient
Occupancy of Hotel Rooms, to specify that a “Permanent Resident”
is an individual.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman:
deletions are strike-through italics Times New Roman.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. Purpose. Article 7, Tax on Transient Occupancy of
Hotel Rooms, of the San Francisco Municipal Code, Business and Tax
Regulations Code, (File No. 7573-2, Ordinance No. 87-61) became
effective on July 1, 1961. Article 7 imposes a transient occupancy tax
(TOT) on every occupancy of a guest room in a hotel in the City and
County of San Francisco (“City”) and requires every occupant to pay
the tax along with the rent for the room. The entire consideration the
occupant pays is subject to the tax and the person receiving or collect-
ing the rent from the occupant must remit the tax to the City. The rate
of the tax, plus surcharges added subsequent to the original enactment
of the tax, is currently 14 percent of the rent.

In 2008, the City sought to collect TOT on the full amount of the
rent charged customers by on-line travel companies when hotel rooms

located in San Francisco are booked primarily on-line. The on-line
travel companies claimed that they are not required to pay the tax to the
City. They have initiated a lawsuit to obtain a refund of TOT that they
paid under protest. It is the City’s position that Article 7 currently
requires every person that receives or collects taxable room rent from an
occupant, regardless of their relationship to the hotel or occupant, to
also collect the TOT and remit it to the City. The purpose of this ordi-
nance is to clarify who is responsible for collecting and remitting TOT.
In addition, this ordinance amends and consolidates definitions of
“Operator” in Article 7 and Article 9 of the San Francisco Business and
Tax Regulations Code into one definition of “Operator” in Article 6.

This ordinance also specifies who may claim the “permanent res-
ident” exemption from the TOT. The tax has always included a perma-
nent resident exemption to ensure that low-income persons living in res-
idential hotels would not be required to pay the tax. The tax was
intended to be levied on business travelers, convention attendees, and
tourists. Nevertheless, under certain circumstances current law autho-
rizes corporations and business entities to claim the exemption.

Disputes about the validity of those claims by airlines whose flight
crews stay overnight in San Francisco hotels has resulted in costly liti-
gation. Even though the San Francisco Superior Court rejected the air-
lines’ claims of permanent resident status in 2006, the airlines continue
to claim they are exempt from the tax and to litigate their claims. The
purpose of this ordinance is to remove any basis for corporations and
business entities to claim a tax exemption meant to benefit low-income
persons living in residential hotels. This ordinance disallows corpora-
tions and other artificial entities from claiming the permanent resident
exemption under any circumstances, and allows only natural persons
(human beings) to claim the permanent resident exemption.

Section 2. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code is hereby amended by amending Sections 6.2-13, 501, and 601, to
read as follows:

SEC. 6.2-13. OPERATOR.

(a)	The term “Operator” means:

(1)	Any person who (A) receives any consideration from the
occupant: (B) conducts or controls a business subject to the tax on tran-
sient occupancy of hotel rooms in the City, including, but not limited to.
the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee
in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise conducting or
controlling such business: or (C) is the merchant of record in the trans-
action:

(2)	Any person who receives the consideration for the
occupancy of parking spaces in parking stations in the City, or who
conducts or controls a business subject to the tax on the occupancy of
parking spaces in parking stations in the City, including, but not limited
to. the owner or proprietor of such premises. lessee, sublessee, mort-
gagee in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise conducting
or controlling such business:

(3)	Any person conducting or controlling a business subject
to the stadium operator occupancy tax in the City:

(4)	Any service supplier required to collect the utility users
tax under Article 10: or

(5)	Any service supplier required to collect the access line
tax under Article 10B.

(b)	The receipt of consideration by an employee on behalf of an
employer shall not make the employee an operator, but such consider-
ation shall be considered consideration received by the employer.

The term “operator” means any person conducting or control-
ling a business subject to the tax on transient occupancy of hotel rooms
or the tax on occupancy of parking spaces in parking stations in the
Gity, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such prem-
ises, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other-
person otherwise conducting or controlling such business. “Operator”
shall also include any person conducting or controlling a business sub-
ject to the stadium operator occupancy tax in the City, as well as any
service supplier required to collect the utility users tax under Article 10
or the emergency response fee under Article 10A.

38-CP185-EN-N10

SEC. 501. ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.

When used in this Article the following terms shall mean or
include:

(a) “Operator ” Any person operating a hotel in the City and
County of San Francisco, including, but not limited to, the owner or
proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.

Cb¥a) “Occupant.” A person who, for a consideration, uses, pos-
sesses, or has the right to use or possess any room or apartment in a
hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use
or other agreement, or otherwise.

M(b) “Occupancy.” The use or possession, or the right to the
use or possession of any room or apartment in a hotel or the right to the
use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommoda-
tions accompanying the use and possession of the room or apartment.

(dXc) “Hotel.” Any structure, or any portion of a structure,
including any lodginghousclodging house. roominghouscroomins house.
dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, auto court,
inn, public club, or private club, containing guest rooms and which is
occupied, or is intended or designated for occupation, by guests, wheth-
er rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. It does not include
any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention, or
other building in which human beings are housed and detained under
legal restraint.

M(d) “Guest Room.” A room occupied, or intended, arranged,
or designed for occupation, by one or more occupants. Every 100
square feet of superficial floor area in a dormitory is a guest room.

“Rent.” The consideration received for occupancy valued
in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all
receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature,
and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator
Operator to the occupant Occupant. without any deduction therefrom
whatsoever.

M(f) “Permanent Resident.” Any occupant An individual who
as of a given date who has or shall have occupied, or has or shall have
the right of occupancy7 of, any guest room in a hotel for at least 30 con-
secutive days next preceding such date.

SEC. 601. ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.

When used in this Article the following terms shall mean or
include:

(a) “Operator.” Any person operating a parking station in the
City and County of San Francisco, including but not limited to, the
owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in-
possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating such park-
ing station. A person who otherwise qualifies as an operator as herein
defined shall not, by reason of the fact that he was exempt from the fat-
her cin imposed, be exempted from the obligations of an operator here-
under.

fbf(a) “Occupant.” A person who, for a consideration, uses, pos-
sesses or has the right to use or possess any space for the parking of a
motor vehicle in a parking station under any lease, concession, permit,
right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.

M(b) “Occupancy.” The use or possession or the right to the
use or possession of any space for the parking of a motor vehicle in a
parking station.

fdMc) “Parking Station.” The term “parking station” shall
include, but is not limited to:

(1)	Any outdoor space or uncovered plot, place, lot, par-
cel, yard or enclosure, or any portion thereof, where motor vehicles may
be parked, stored, housed or kept, for which any charge is made;

(2)	Any building or structure, or any portion thereof in
which motor vehicles may be parked, stored, housed or kept, for which
any charge is made.

M(d) “Motor Vehicle.” The term “motor vehicle” includes
every self-propelled vehicle operated or suitable for operation on the
highway.

{f)(e} “Rent.” The consideration received for occupancy valued
in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all
receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature.

and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator
Operator to the occupant Occupant, without any deduction therefrom
whatsoever.

(g)(f). “Parking Meter.” Any device which, when the recording
device thereof is set in motion, or immediately following the deposit of
any coin, shall register the period of time that any motor vehicle may be
parked adjacent thereto.

Section 3. Severability. If any of the provisions of this ordi-
nance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, the remainder of those provisions, including the application of
such part or provisions to persons or circumstances other than those to
which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue
in full force and effect. To this end, the provisions of this ordinance are
severable.

Section 4. It is the intent of the voters of the City and County of
San Francisco that the rate of tax plus all surcharges referred to in this
Article 7 shall remain 14 percent. In the event that another measure or
measures on the November 2, 2010 ballot seeks to affect the overall rate
of the Transient Occupancy Tax, any provisions of the other measure or
measures increasing the rate of tax or adding an additional surcharge
shall be deemed to be in conflict with this measure. In the event that
this measure receives a greater number of affirmative votes, the provi-
sions of the other measure or measures increasing the rate of tax or add-
ing an additional surcharge shall be null and void, and the rate of tax
plus all surcharges shall remain 14 percent.

Proposition L

Ordinance amending the San Francisco Police Code By adding Section
168 to promote civil sidewalks.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman:
deletions are strike-through italics Times New Roman.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. The San Francisco Police Code is hereby amended by
adding Section 168, to read as follows:

SEC 168. PROMOTION OF CIVIL SIDEWALKS.

(a) Findings. San Francisco is a dense, urban environment
where everyone must use the public sidewalk for travel. The people of
San Francisco find that maintaining pedestrian and authorized commer-
cial activity on public sidewalks is essential to public safety, thriving
neighborhoods and a vital economy in the City. The people of the City
and County of San Francisco find that sitting or lying down is not the
customary use of the public sidewalks. The need to maintain pedestrian
and commercial traffic is greatest during the hours of operation of busi-
nesses. shops. restaurants. and other City commercial enterprises when
public sidewalks are congested, and when City residents are most likely
to use their neighborhood sidewalks. Persons who sit or lie down on
public sidewalks during business hours threaten the safety of pedestri-
ans. especially the elderly, disabled, vision-impaired, and children.
Persons who sit or lie down also deter residents and visitors from
patronizing local shops. restaurants and businesses. and deter people
from using the sidewalks in their neighborhoods. San Franciscans seek
policies that preserve the right to enioy public space and traverse freely,
while protecting the free-speech rights of individuals and groups. as
well as other safe activity consistent with City permitting requirements.
Business areas and neighborhoods become dangerous to pedestrian
safety and economic vitality when individuals block the public side-
walks. This behavior causes a cycle of decline as residents and tourists
go elsewhere to walk, meet, shop and dine, and residents become intimi-
dated from using the public sidewalks in their own neighborhoods.
Because lying down or sitting is an incompatible use of the sidewalk in
residential and commercial areas, and in order to prevent displacement
of violators from one district or neighborhood to another. the prohibi-
tion applies Citywide.

38-CP186-EN-N10

1^ Hotel Tax Clarification and Definitions

Shall the City keep the hotel tax rate at 14%, confirm that anyone collecting
rent from a hotel guest must also collect tax on room rental and related
charges, and define "permanent resident" so that only an individual could
qualify for the "permanent resident" exemption?

Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee

The Way It Is Now: The City charges a 14% tax on the
rental of hotel rooms and related charges, and that
money goes to the General Fund. In addition, a fee of
1% to 1V2% for improving Moscone Convention Center
and promoting San Francisco is assessed.

The hotel tax applies to the amount a guest pays to
occupy a room and related charges, and the hotel
"operator" must collect the tax when it collects the
payment. The hotel tax does not apply to payment
from a "permanent resident" who occupies a hotel
room for at least 30 consecutive days.TheTax Code
defines "operator" and "permanent resident." (See
the legal text of the measure.)

The Proposal: Proposition K would keep the hotel tax
rate at 14%.

Proposition K would confirm that the hotel tax applies
to the amount a guest pays to occupy a room and
related charges, and that anyone collecting payment
from a hotel guest must collect the tax on that amount
and pay it to the City.

Proposition K would define "permanent resident"
so that only an individual could qualify for the
"permanent resident" exemption.

Proposition K would combine different definitions of
"operator" in theTax Code into one definition.

If the voters adopt both Proposition K and Proposition
J, the hotel tax rate would be determined by the
proposition receiving the most votes.

A "YES" Vote Means: If you vote "yes," you want to:

•	keep the hotel tax rate at 14%,

•	confirm that anyone collecting rent from a hotel
guest must also collect tax on room rental and
related charges, and

A "NO" Vote Means: If you vote "no," you do not want
to make these changes to theTax Code.

Controller's Statement on "K"

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition K:

Should the proposed ordinance be approved by the
voters, in my opinion, it would generate additional tax
revenue for the City of approximately $12.0 million
annually that can be used for any public purpose.The
ordinance would specify that the City's hotel tax
applies to any entity collecting room rental charges
from a hotel guest, specify that only individuals can
qualify for the 'permanent resident' exemption to the
hotel tax, and make other clarifications.

The proposed ordinance would not change the hotel
tax rate, which is currently set at 14%.

How "K" Got on the Ballot

On June 15, 2010, the Department of Elections received
a proposed ordinance signed by Mayor Newsom.

The City Elections Code allows the Mayor to place an
ordinance on the ballot in this manner.

—

Propositions J and K concern the same subject matter. If
both measures are adopted by the voters, and if there is
a conflict between provisions of the two measures, then
some or all of the measure approved by fewer votes
would not go into effect.

»______________________

• define "permanent resident" so that only an
individual could qualify for the "permanent
resident" exemption.

This measure requires 50%+1 affirmative votes to pass.

Arguments for and against this measure immediately follow this page.The full text begins on page 185.
Some of the words used in the ballot digest are explained on page 61.

38-CP135-EN-N10

This disclaimer applies to the rebuttal to the proponent's argument on this page and the opponent's argument on the facing page. The Board of ^
Supervisors authorized the submission of the following argument. As of the date of the publication of this Voter Information Pamphlet, the follow-
ing Supervisors endorse the measure: Supervisors Chu, Dufty and Elsbernd; oppose the measure: Supervisors Avalos, Campos, Chiu, Mar and
Mirkarimi; take no position on the measure: Supervisors Alioto-Pier, Daly and Maxwell.

Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition K

Hotel Tax Clarification - It's Good Government and
Responsible Revenue

Prop K closes the tax loophole for online hotel
reservations.

Prop K ensures that the City receives the full amount
of tax owed on a hotel room.

Here's how it works: A customer pays $150 online for a
hotel room and pays 14% hotel tax (plus 1%-1.5%
assessment) on that $150 to the online travel company.
But the online travel company only paid the hotel $100
for that room. And while the hotel tax is due on the full
$150, the online travel company is only remitting tax
on the $100 it paid to the hotel.That's not fair.This
measure will fix this loophole and give San
Franciscan's what we are owed.

The City loses approximately $12 million in annual
revenue from this loophole.

Many jurisdictions are pursuing this underpayment in
court. It's a matter of fairness: Prop K ensures everyone
abides by our laws and pays their fair share.

This measure would NOT increase the Hotel Tax by 2%.

The hotel tax was effectively already raised in
December 2008. Hotels worked with the Mayor and
Board of Supervisor to create aTourism Improvement
District, which imposes a 1%-1.5% assessment on all
San Francisco hotel stays. Hotel guests are currently
paying 15% to 15.5% already! The assessment allowed
the City to stop funding the Convention and Visitors
Bureau - returning $8 million annually to the City. Prop
J (another measure on the ballot) violates this
agreement and levies a job-killing tax on the City's
largest revenue generating industry.

VOTE YES on Prop K. VOTE NO on J.

Mayor Gavin Newsom
Jose Cisneros, Treasurer*

Supervisor Sean Elsbernd
Supervisor Carmen Chu*

Supervisor Bevan Dufty

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Rebuttal to Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition K

Don't swallow the poison pill. Vote NO on K and YES
on J.

We all agree on closing loopholes used by hotel inter-
net booking companies and the airline industry. We
can do exactly that by voting NO on K and Yes on J.

Yes on J is hotel fairness.

5 million tourists come to San Francisco every year. We
are - and always will be - the most attractive city in
America.

Most visitors will tell you: a temporary surcharge of $3
per night is a bargain if it helps fund a more reliable
Muni, ensures that homeless services are available,
and keeps city streets clean and safe.

Visitors use city services, too.

San Franciscans have endured cuts in schools. Muni,
safety and health care. City employees have taken a
voluntary $250 million pay cut.

Shouldn't the 5 million visitors to San Francisco pay
their fair share of rising costs?

It takes two votes to save vital services.

Yes on J and No on K is supported by the San
Francisco Democratic Party, San Francisco teachers,
California nurses, and the Sierra Club. Please join us
and vote Yes on J and No on K.

Martha Hawthorne, Public Health Nurse*

Claire Merced, Public School Teacher*

Assemblyman Tom Ammiano

Board of Supervisors President David Chiu

California Nurses Association

United Educators of San Francisco

Sierra Club

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP136-EN-N10

Opponent's Argument Against Proposition K

PROP K IS A POISON PILL

There's only one reason hotel corporations put
Proposition K on the ballot - to confuse and deceive
voters about a community ballot measure called
Proposition J.

This is the story. Last spring, San Francisco residents
launched a community petition drive to save vital city
services. Over 15,000 San Franciscans signed the
petition to place Proposition J on the ballot.

Proposition J imposes a temporary 2% surcharge on
hotel rooms - an average of $3 per night. It doesn't
cost residents a penny, but will help fund MUNI, police,
fire and other services used by both visitors and
residents.

Hotel owners could have simply opposed Proposition
J. Instead, they are trying to deceive and manipulate
voters with Prop K. While seeming innocent enough on
the surface. Prop K contains hidden language - known
as a poison pill - which, if it passes, will effectively kill
Prop J.

The owners behind this deceptive measure will spend
hundreds of thousands of dollars to confuse the
issues. Don't be fooled!These are the facts:

•	Proposition K is nothing but a poison pill created by
hotel owners aimed at killing Prop J, the temporary
hotel surcharge which saves vital city services.

•	Proposition K is opposed by the San Francisco
Democratic Party, San Francisco teachers, nurses
and health care advocates.

•	Proposition K will take away the opportunity to fund
vital services we use and rely on including MUNI,
schools and health care.

This year, say NO to deceptive politics and YES to
saving city services.

REMEMBER - ITTAKESTWO VOTESTO SAVE VITAL
SERVICES: YES on J, NO on K!

Martha Hawthorne, Public Health Nurse*

Claire Merced, Public School Teacher
Supervisor Eric Mar
California Nurses Association
United Educators of San Francisco
Sierra Club

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Rebuttal to Opponent's Argument Against Proposition K

Vote Yes on K.	*For	identification	purposes	only;	author is signing as

Proposition K is good government and responsible	an	individual	and	not	on	behalf	of	an organization,

revenue.

Proposition K will clarify the hotel tax and add an
additional $12 million per year to the general fund
without raising taxes and costing local jobs.

We put Proposition K on the ballot because internet
travel companies are currently refusing to pay the City
what we are owed - they claim the law is unclear. We
think the law is crystal clear, but Proposition K will
definitively clarify our rules.

Proposition K will raise revenue. Proposition K will
ensure that online travel companies don't keep our tax
money. Proposition K won't cost the City jobs.

YES ON K. NO ON J.

Mayor Gavin Newsom
Treasurer Jose Cisneros*

Supervisor Sean Elsbernd
Supervisor Carmen Chu
Supervisor Sevan Dufty

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP137-EN-N10

ESJ

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition K

Vote YES on K. Prop K will raise $12 million annually in
additional revenue for the city without raising the hotel
tax like Prop J. Vote YES on K, No on J - support San
Francisco's economic recovery.

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce and our 1,500
local businesses.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

End of Paid Arguments IN FAVOR of Proposition K

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

Our City cannot be sustained on fees, fines, cuts, lay-
offs and privatization. It's time to help by raising new
revenue. Proposition K will kancel the revenue gener-
ating Prop. J Hotel Tax if it gets more votes than J.
Proposition J closes the same loopholes but J also
raises $100 million through a 2% surcharge on the
Hotel Tax over three years. Large enough to help the
City but too small to discourage visitors!

Vote NO on Proposition K, and YES on Proposition J,
the Hotel Tax.

Keep Arboretum Free
Karen Anderson
Mark Anquoe
Dennis Antenore
Don Ayers
Bridget Boylan
L.K. Buchanan
Allan Chalmers
Linda Chalmers
Barbara Chesnut
David Eldred
Pierre Fraysse
Jerry Gerber
Mark Gould
Christie Flakim
Katherine Howard
Jane Jens
Peter Jay Kushner
Jeanne Lahaie
Lori Liederman
Andrew Moore
Elias Moosa
Denis Mosgofian
Rasa Gustaitis Moss
Allen Schneider
Mary Spoerer

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

LGBT LEADERS SAY NO ON K

Proposition K will block critical funding for LGBT ser-
vices at a time when budget cuts have caused HIV/
AIDS health programs, clinics serving the transgender
community and transitional housing programs.

It's time to stand up for our community by saying NO
on K

Harvey Milk LGBT Democratic Club

SF Pride at Work

Fmr. Senator Carole Migden

AssemblymemberTom Ammiano

Supervisor David Campos

Debra Walker, Past President Harvey Milk LGBT

Democratic Club

Rafael Mandelman, Past President Harvey Milk LGBT
Democratic Club

Michael Goldstein, Past President Harvey Milk LGBT
Democratic Club

David Waggoner, Co-President Harvey Milk LGBT
Democratic Club

Robert "Gabriel" Haaland, SF Pride at Work
Kristina Wertz

Tim Durning, Harvey Milk LGBT Democratic Club
Board Member

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

Democrats Say 'Don't Swallow the Poison Pill - Vote
NO on K

The San Francisco Democrats oppose Prop K because
it contains a "poison pill" that blocks another measure.
Proposition J, from going into effect. Prop K will block
much needed revenue to support our schools, our
health care infrastructure, and our Muni system.

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

The true sources of funds for the printing fee of this argu-
ment are all authors except Keep Arboretum Free.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP138-EN-N10

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

Tenant Advocates Say NO ON K

Prop K contains a provision called a "poison pill" that
will kill Proposition J and limit funding for the city ser-
vices Tenants rely on.

TENANTS SAY 'DON'T SWALLOWTHE POISON PILL' -
VOTE NO ON K!

San Francisco Tenants Union
Affordable Housing Alliance

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

TEACHERS SAY NO ON K - DON'T SWALLOWTHE
POISON PILL!

Classroom teachers know a trick when they see one,
and Prop K is just that. Prop K contains a 'poison pill'
that will block another ballot measure, Proposition J,
from taking effect. Proposition J is a reasonable solu-
tion to the budget deficits that this year threatened lay-
offs of 900 teachers.

Support our City and our Schools - Vote NO on K

Dennis Kelly, President - UESF
Susan Solomon, Secretary -
Larry Niche Ison, Galileo High*

Kathleen Cecil, Mission	High

Katherine Melvin, Lowell High
Maria Teresa Rode, Lowell High*

Ken Tray, Lowell High*

Maria Lourdes Nocedal, Sheridan Elementary*

Alita Blanc, Moscone Elementary*

Patricia Golumn, A.R Giannini Middle*

Susan Kitchell, School Nurse, Burton High*

Miranda Doyle, Martin Luther King Middle*

Lawrence Blake, Hoover Middle*

CharlesTurner, Tenderloin Elementary (Ret.)*

Rose Curreri, Taylor	Elementary*

Jay Kozak, George Washington High*

David Mahon, Guadalupe Elementary*

Eva Lee, Alamo Elementary*

Mary Thomas, San Miguel Children Center*

Patricia Mann, School Psychologist*

Marilyn Cornwell, Substitute Teacher*

Daniel Markarian, CORE Substitute*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

Senior Action Network Says NO to the Poison Pill - NO
ON K.

Proposition K will stop the city from raising revenue
the city needs to protect services for seniors and per-
sons with disabilities. Proposition K was put on the
ballot at the request of large hotel corporations who
don't want to pay their fair share. If Prop K passes it
will prevent another measure. Proposition J, from
going into effect. Proposition J closes tax loopholes
and raises much needed revenue to the city.

As the City has slashed services to balance its budget,
services for seniors and persons with disabilities have
been drastically reduced, or cut altogether. Prop K will
cause more cuts to senior services. Vote NO ON K.

Senior Action Network

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco, 2.
California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

United Community and Worker Voices Say Vote NO on K

Proposition K is a deceptive ploy by big hotel owners
to kill Prop J. Vote YES on J, NO on K to protect vital
public services for all residents.

Causa	Justar.Just Cause (formerly St. Peter's Housing

Committee)

Chinese Progressive Association
Coleman Action Fund for Children
Filipino Community Center
Mujeres Unidas yActivas
Pride at Work
Young Workers United
JOBS WITH JUSTICE

People Organized to Demand Environmental and
Economic Rights

San Francisco Day Labor Program

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP139-EN-N10

ESJ

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

Sierra Club Opposes Proposition K

Proposition K will block Proposition J from taking
effect, hurting our budget and causing cuts to funding
for parks, open space, and Muni.

Sierra Club Says Vote NO on K and Yes on J

Sierra Club

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

Community Non-Profit Health Agencies Say No on K!

San Francisco community nonprofit health and human
services agencies have experienced significant funding
cuts over the last two years. Next year projections
show a deficit that will be even more devastating to
essential services for San Francisco's most vulnerable
residents.

Proposition K is a deceptive measure that is designed
to prevent the passage of Proposition J, the temporary
2% surcharge on hotel rooms. Proposition J is a criti-
cally needed revenue measure to assure that essential
services to seniors, families, the disabled and home-
less San Franciscans can continue.

Proposition K is a poison pill that would kill Proposition
J and eliminate a potential source of funding for vital
services throughout the City.

Join the San Francisco Human Services Network, a
coalition of over 100 nonprofit community agencies, in
voting YES on J and NO on K!

San Francisco Human Services Network

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Human Services Network.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

FIRST RESPONDERS SAY NO ON K!

First Responders at San Francisco General Hospital
oppose Proposition K because it contains a "poison
pill" that would block another measure. Proposition J,
from taking effect. Proposition J raises funding for criti-
cal patient care at San Francisco General Hospital and
other emergency services. If Prop K passes it will cause
budget cuts to continue and emergency care at
General Hospital will suffer.

San Francisco First Responders ask you to Vote NO on
K and YES on J!

Kathryn Guta, RN*

Sue Trupin, RN*

Theresa Cahill, RN*

Jo Anne Roy, RN*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

LIBRARY WORKERS SAY VOTE NO ON K!

Librarians and library workers oppose Proposition K
because it contains a "poison pill" that will prevent
another measure. Proposition J, from taking effect.

Prop J provides much-needed revenue for our strug-
gling neighborhood branch libraries by closing corpo-
rate loopholes abused by airline and online hotel book-
ing companies, and also imposing a temporary visitor
surcharge of $3/night.

Library Workers ask you to support our Libraries-Vote
NO on K, andYESon J!

Beverly Hayes, Librarian*

Andrea Grimes, Librarian*

Catherine Bremer, Librarian*

Marilyn Dong, Librarian*

Nancy Silverrod, Librarian*

Quindi Berger, Librarian*

Stephen Lee, Library Technician*

Andy Giang, Library Technician*

Jennifer Giovanetti, Page*

Donna Persechino, Librarian*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP140-EN-N10

Paid Arguments - Proposition K

141

9

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

LAGUNA HONDA HOSPITAL WORKERS SAY VOTE NO
ON K!

Laguna Honda Hospital workers oppose Proposition K
because it contains a "poison pill" that would block
another measure, Proposition J, from taking effect.

Prop J will raise revenue to fund the care we provide
to senior and disabled patients at Laguna Honda
Hospital. If Prop K passes, budget cuts at Laguna
Honda will continue and patients will pay the cost.

Laguna Honda Hospital workers ask you to support
senior and disabled patient care - Vote NO on K, and
YES on J!

Susan Lindsay, Health	Worker

Gloria Mayfield, Nursing	Assis

Patricia Mackey Williams, Nursing

Rosalinda Concha, Licensed Vocational

Masaki Tsurn, Nursing	Assistant

Randy Ellen Blaustein, Certified Therapeutic Recreation

Specialist*

Gregory Rechsteiner, Plant	S

Jamilah Din, Food Service	W

Bonnie Richardson, DMIT*

Joseph McHugh, Cadet*

Winnie Dunbar, Cadet*

Micahel Beglin, Porter*

Karen Zhang, Porter*

Jenny Tam, Porter*

Rose Huang, Porter*

Chi-Lung Chan, Porter*

Li Chan Lei, Porter*

Philip Chang, Porter*

Allen Lee, Porter*

Tan Poy Chan, Porter*

Mee Mee Tong, Porter*

Alexander Maestre, Porter*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition K

SF General Hospital Workers Say NO on K - Don't
Swallow the Poison Pill!

Proposition K contains a special provision, known as a
"poison pill," that will prevent Proposition J from tak-
ing effect. Prop J closes corporate loopholes abused
by airline and online hotel booking companies, and
also imposes a temporary visitor surcharge of $3/night.
San Francisco needs a balanced approach to its budget
deficit, and Prop J will help raise much needed reve-
nue.

San Francisco General Hospital Workers ask you to
protect health care services - Vote NO on K!

Amalia Fyles, RN*

Kristina Hung, RN*

Charles Sanchez, Porter*

Cristina Mendoza, Sr. Clerk*

Daniel Merer, RN*

Pete Trachy, RN*

Teri Hightower, Porter*

Linda Cummins, Sr. Clerk*

Mayjanna Li, Medical Assistant*

Mariertta Morris-Alston, Unit Clerk*

Ana Urrutia, RN*

Michael Tong, Institutional Police Officer*

Amalia Deck, RN*

Dionii Derrick*

Jessica Tam Middleton*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP141-EN-N10