Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Cabrillo Unified School District

Measure E

To continue student achievement in our local elementary, middle and high schools; preserve strong academic programs including science, math, reading
and writing; keep schools open; retain qualified teachers and smaller class sizes; and maintain updated classroom computer technology; shall Cabrillo
Unified School District assess an annual education parcel tax in the amount of $150 per parcel, for five years, with annual audits, citizen oversight, no
funds for administrators’ salaries, and all revenues staying in our local schools?

Full Text

To continue student achievement in our local elementary, middle and high
schools; preserve strong academic programs including science, math,
reading and writing; keep schools open; retain qualified teachers and
smaller class sizes; and maintain updated classroom computer technology;
shall Cabrillo Unified School District assess an annual education parcel tax
in the amount of $150 per parcel, for five years, with annual audits, citizen
oversight, no funds for administrators’ salaries, and all revenues staying in
our local schools?

Pursuant to section 50075.1(a) of the Government Code, the proceeds of the
special tax shall be spent to provide and maintain academic achievement
priorities through the following:

1.	Preserving strong academic programs including science, math,
reading and writing;

2.	Keeping all schools open;

3.	Retaining qualified teachers and staff;

4.	Retaining smaller class sizes; and

5.	Maintaining updated classroom computer technology.

Under no circumstances shall any of the proceeds of the student achievement
special tax be used for administrators’ salaries or benefits.

Findings

1.	An adequately funded and well-developed public education
program provides numerous benefits and advantages to all of the
residents of the community.

2.	The District seeks to maintain excellent schools at a time when
the California Legislature is repeatedly unable to ensure adequate
funding for the operation of the schools in the District.

3.	It is essential that the District have stable, reliable, local funding
to maintain its quality academic programs.

4.	The District has implemented a number of changes to generate
sufficient funds for its education programs, including initiation
of local fund-raising efforts.

5.	Contributions from parent clubs and educational foundations,
while generous, are not adequate to fund academic core programs.

6.	Ongoing declines in state funding for public education threaten
the District’s many successful educational programs with an
increasingly uncertain fiscal future.

7.	Future funding for the District from the State of California and
other sources is projected to be inadequate to provide the level
of support to the District’s educational programs and maintain
the high-student achievement that the residents of the District
expect.

Basis of Tax

The special tax shall be levied on all parcels of taxable real property in the
District, as defined below, for 5 years starting with the 2010-2011 property
tax year, at a rate of $150 per parcel of taxable real property.

“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the County Tax Collector’s Office. All property that is
otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property
taxes in any year shall also not be subject to the special tax in such year.

Any such parcels which are contiguous, used solely for owner-occupied
single family residential purposes and held under identical ownership,
shall, upon approval of an application of the owners of such parcel, be
treated as a single parcel for purposes of this special tax.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the
County Tax Assessor shall make all final determinations of tax exemption
or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With
respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including the
Senior Citizen Exemption and the classification of property for purposes of
calculating the tax, the decisions of a District administrative review panel
shall be final and binding.

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the
appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the
aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

Senior Citizen Exemption

An exemption shall be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons
aged 65 years or older as of July 1 of any applicable tax year who occupies
said parcel as a principal residence, upon application for exemption.

Accountability Measures

Specific Purpose. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied
only to the specific purpose identified above. The proceeds of the
special tax shall be deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate
and apart from other funds of the District.

Annual Report. No later than January 1 of each year while the tax is in
effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board of Education
a report/audit detailing the amount of funds collected and expended,
and the status of any project authorized to be funded by this measure.

Citizen Oversight Committee. In addition to the accountability
measures required by law, the Board of Trustees shall establish an
independent Citizen Oversight Committee to ensure that proceeds of
the Cabrillo Unified School District Measure E are spent wisely and
only for the purposes approved by the voters. The oversight committee
will monitor expenditures funded by the measure and report annually

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Cabrillo Unified School District

to the Board and community. The Governing Board shall provide by
resolution for the composition, duties, and other necessary information
regarding the Committee’s formation and operation.

Severability

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent
value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval
of this measure by the voters, should any part of the measure or taxing
formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing formula hereof shall
remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

Impartial Analysis of Measure E

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Cabrillo Unified School
District proposes to levy a special tax for a period of five years beginning
July 1, 2010 and ending June 30, 2015. This tax shall be at a rate of $150
per year per parcel on all taxable parcels in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District
which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
San Mateo County tax collection officials, except that only one tax may
be assessed to owners, upon approval of an application, whose property
include one or more contiguous parcels if they are used for owner-occupied
single family residential purposes and held under identical ownership. Any
property owner who occupies the parcel as a principal residence and is aged
65 years or older may qualify for an exemption from the special tax. All
property which would otherwise be exempt from ad valorem property taxes
will also be exempt from the imposition of the tax.

The stated purposes of the special tax are to: preserve science, math,
reading and writing programs; keep schools open; retain teachers and staff;
maintain smaller class sizes; and to update classroom computer technology.
None of the funds shall be used for administrator salaries or benefits.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special account.
An independent citizens’ oversight committee will be established to
monitor the expenditures of the parcel tax revenues. An annual report
is required which accounts for the parcel tax revenues collected and the
manner in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied
on property within the boundaries of the Cabrillo Unified School
District for a period of five years beginning July 1, 2010 and ending
June 30, 2015 in an amount of $150 per year per taxable parcel. The
special tax would be used for: preserving science, math, reading and
writing programs; keeping schools open; retaining teachers and staff;
maintaining smaller class sizes; and updating classroom computer
technology.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the additional special
tax to be levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote

“yes.”

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Cabrillo Unified School District

Argument in Favor of Measure E

Our local elementary, middle and high schools in Cabrillo Unified School
District provide a high-quality education for students in our coastal
community. With excellent teachers and strong academic programs in
math, science, reading and writing, student achievement and test score are
on the rise.

The district’s award-winning Marine Sciences Program and Half Moon
Bay High School’s botany course—which is certified for University of
California college credit—are testaments to our local schools’ dedication
to providing a well-rounded education.

But state cuts to education funding are threatening academic programs
that help students succeed. In fact, our schools face a $2.5 million budget
shortfall, which could result in reduced educational programs, increased
class sizes and the loss of excellent teachers. All of these budget reductions
will impact student achievement and education in the classroom.

That is why your Yes vote on Measure E is critical — it will provide a
stable, local source of revenue to protect our schools.

Best of all, Measure E funds cannot be taken away by the state. All funds
will stay here in our Coastside schools to continue student achievement.

Vote Yes on E:

•	Preserve strong academic programs including science, math,
reading and writing

•	Keep all schools open

•	Retain qualified teachers

•	Protect smaller class sizes

•	Provide updated classroom computer technology

Measure E Provides Fiscal Protections

•	Every penny of Measure E will stay here in our Coastside schools
and cannot be taken away by the state

• No funds can be used for administrators’ salaries

• A citizens’ oversight committee will ensure wisely to protect high quality academics	funds are spent
• An exemption is available for senior citizen homeowners	
Measure E will protect the great education that the students in our community deserve. That is why parents, teachers, senior citizens and local leaders are voting Yes on Measure E. Please join us.	
/s/ BJMackle  Retired Deputy Superintendent	March 18, 2010
/s/ Thomas Cox  Cabrillo Unified Teachers Association President	March 18, 2010
/s/ Nadia Bledsoe Popyack  Midcoast Community Council Member, 1992-1994	March 19, 2010
/s/ Sandra Andreini  Former PTO President	March 17, 2010
/s/ Lenny Mendonca  Local Business Owner	March 16, 2010

No Argument Against Measure E Submitted

3