ORDINANCE NO. 1516

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WOODLAND
ADDING ARTICLE VII TO AND OTHERWISE AMENDING CHAPTER 23
OF THE WOODLAND MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO A SUPPLEMENTAL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE

BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The City Council of the City of Woodland does ordain as follows:

Section 1. Authority. The City Council enacts this ordinance in accordance with the authority
granted to cities by Article XI, Section 7 of the California Constitution and Section 7285.9 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 2. Addition of article. Article VII is hereby added to Chapter 23 of the City of
Woodland Municipal Code to read as follows:

Article VII. SUPPLEMENTAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX.

Sec. 23-99	Short title of article.

This article shall be known as the “Supplemental Transactions and Use
Tax” and shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City of Woodland
(“City”). This article shall complement, and not replace or supersede, the City’s
existing sales and use tax, as such tax is described in Article II of Chapter 23 of
the Woodland Municipal Code and the City’s existing transactions and use tax, as
such tax is described in Article V of Chapter 23 of the Woodland Municipal
Code.

Sec. 23-100	Definitions.

For the purpose of this chapter the following words terms shall have the
meaning given in this section:

“In the city” means and includes all territory within the city limits.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the later of the adoption of this article and
the approval by the voters of the city of a measure approving the imposition of an
increased transactions and use tax; provided that, if the city shall not have entered
into a contract with the State Board of Equalization as required by section 23-102
prior to such date, the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract. If the measure is approved at
the June 8, 2010 election, the operative date shall be October 1, 2010.

“Termination Date” initially shall mean the fourth anniversary of the
operative date and, if approved by a majority of the electors voting on the
measure at an election held subsequent to the June 8, 2010 election, shall mean
such later date as the electors may approve. If the operative date is October
1, 2010, the initial termination date shall be September 30, 2014.

Sec. 23-101

Purpose.

This article of the Woodland Municipal Code has been adopted for the
following purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order
to accomplish those purposes:

(1)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax. This article shall be operative if a majority
of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at
an election called for that purpose.

(2)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

(3)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(4)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax that can be administered
in a manner that will, to the greatest degree possible, be consistent with the
provisions of Parts 1.6 of Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, and
thereby minimize the cost of collecting city transactions and use taxes, and at the
same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions thereof.

(5)	The transactions and use tax imposed pursuant to this article is an
addition to and does not otherwise affect the transactions and use tax imposed
pursuant to Article V of this Chapter 23.

Sec. 23-102	Contract	with	state.

Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incidental to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance. If the city has not contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day
of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract. The city
council may make any technical amendments to this article required by the State
Board of Equalization, except for any changes affecting the tax rate, tax
methodology, or its manner of collection. To the extent allowable by law, the city
may amend its current contract with the State Board of Equalization regarding the
tax imposed pursuant to Article V of this Chapter 23 to perform all functions

2

incidental to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance.

Sec. 23-103	Imposition of transactions and use tax - Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the city at the
rate of one-quarter of one percent (.25%) of any gross receipts of the retailer from
the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the city on and after the
operative date of this article and before the termination date.

Sec. 23-104	Place of sale.

For the purposes of this article, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place
of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the Board
of Equalization.

Sec. 23-105	Imposition of use tax - Use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption
in the city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on or after the
operative date of this article, at the rate of one-quarter of one percent (.25%) of
the sales price of the property subject to the tax. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless
of the place to which delivery is made.

Sec. 23-106	Adoption of provisions of state law - Generally.

Except as otherwise provided in the article and except in-so-far as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with § 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part
of this article as though fully set forth herein.

Sec. 23-107	Adoption of provisions of state law - Limitations;

Limitations on collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

3

(1)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

(A)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

(B)	The result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against this city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather
than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this article.

(C)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

(i)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use
or other consumption remain subject to tax by the state under the provisions of
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(ii)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

(D)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(2)	The word “city” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Sec. 23-107	Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be
required by this article.

Sec. 23-108	Exemptions and exclusions.

(a)	Measure of Tax. There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions and use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the
State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	Transactions Tax Exemptions. There are exempted from the
computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

4

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority
of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is
shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery
to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(A)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-city address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

(B)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration
to a place of business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date.

For the purposes of subsections (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to
a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	Use Tax Exemptions. There are exempted from the use tax
imposed by this article, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of
tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property

5

for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date.
For the purposes of subsections (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

(d)	Exemption from Collection of Use Tax. Except as provided in
subsection (e), a retailer engaged in business in the city shall not be required to
collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the city or participates within the city in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the city
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the city under the authority of the retailer.

(e)	Retailer Not Exempt from Collection of Use Tax. “A retailer
engaged in business in the city” shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser
who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

(f)	Credit Against Use Tax for Transactions Tax Paid Elsewhere. Any
person subject to use tax under this article may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property
the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Sec. 23-109	Adoption	of	amendments to state law.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this article to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue

6

and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this article,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of
tax imposed by this article.

Sec. 23-110	Enjoining	collection prohibited.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against the State or the City,
or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection
hereunder, or Parts 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any
tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 3. Amendment. Section 23-74 of Article V of Chapter 23 of the City of Woodland
Municipal Code is amended to read in full as follows:

Sec. 23-74 Purpose of article.

The city council hereby declares that this article is adopted to achieve the
following, among other, purposes and directs that the provisions of this article be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(1) To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7286.52 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which
authorizes the city to levy a transactions and use tax if a majority of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose, which election shall be consolidated with a regularly
scheduled general election for members of the city council, in accordance with
Section 2(b) of Article XIII(C) of the California Constitution;

(2)	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that incorporate
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the state of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code;

(3)	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that impose a tax
and provide a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes;

(4)	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same
time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions of this article.

7

(5)	The transactions and use tax imposed pursuant to this article is an
addition to and does not otherwise affect the tax imposed pursuant to Article VII
of this Chapter 23.

Section 4. Spending Plan. The City shall prepare a detailed spending plan and report regarding
the expenditure of any proceeds of the taxes collected pursuant to Article VII of Chapter 23 of
the Woodland Municipal Code. The spending plan and report shall be presented to the public
and published in newspapers.

Section 5. Effective Date. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of transactions
and use taxes and shall take effect immediately upon its adoption. The City Clerk is hereby
directed to publish this ordinance at least once, within fifteen (15) of its adoption, in a newspaper
of general circulation published and circulated in the City of Woodland.

Section 6. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this ordinance. The
People of the City of Woodland hereby declare that they would have adopted this ordinance and
each section, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
section, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Woodland this 4th day of

May

,2010, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

None

None

None

Council Members Dote, Marble, Monroe, Pimentel, Davies

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS FOR FORM:

Andrew J. Morris, City Attorney

S ACRAMENTO\JNELSON\61603.3