CITY OF DAVIS
CITY ATTORNEY’S
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q

Measure Q, if approved by a majority of the voters
voting on the measure, will re-authorize and extend a V2
cent sales tax within the City of Davis. This additional Vi?
cent sales tax was originally authorized by a majority of
the Davis voters in June 2004 for a six year period, ending
December 31,2010. The re-authorization would continue
the existing V2 cent sales tax at the same rate for six years,
ending on December 31,2016. The V2 cent sales tax would
continue to be a general tax, meaning that the revenue
raised from the tax would go into the City’s general fund
and could be used for any legal governmental purpose.

California Revenue and Taxation Code sections 7285.9
and 7290 authorize the City to levy a transactions and use
tax (sales tax) in quarter cent (Vi cent) increments (generally
up to a maximum of 2%) so long as the tax is approved by
two-third’s of the members of the City Council and by a
majority of the voters voting in an election on that issue.

The current sales tax within the City (including state
and local sales taxes) is at total of 8.75%, including this
City Vz cent sales tax and the temporary 1 % state sales tax
in effect through June 30,2011. If Measure Q is approved
by a majority of the voters voting on this measure, the total
sales tax would remain at 8.75 percent. If Measure Q is
^ k not approved, effective January 1, 2011, the total sales
- tax would decrease to 8.25 percent. In either case, the
total sales tax will reduce by 1 % when the temporary 1 %
state sales tax expires, unless the state takes action to
extend this 1 % tax.

The V2 cent sales tax re-authorization and extension
set forth in Measure Q would sunset and be repealed
on December 31,2016 and could not be collected after
that time unless two-third’s of the City Council place an
extension or re-authorization of the tax on the ballot and
a majority of the voters voting in an election approve it.

I	s/ Harriet A. Steiner

|	Davis	City	Attorney

I

f

I

|	In the event the entire text of the measure is not printed

|	on the ballot, nor in the voter information portion of

the sample ballot, there shall be printed immediately
below the impartial analysis, in no less than 10-point
bold type, a legend substantially as follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Ordinance 2353. Measure Q. If you desire a copy of
* the Ordinance or Measure, please call the elections
^ official’s office at (530) 757-5648 and a copy will be
| mailed at no cost to you.”

Yolo/' 13

5” 7/13

CITY OF DAVIS
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

Measure Q is a simple renewal of our community’s
one-half cent sales tax. This tax, which has been in
effect for six years, helps fund services that define our
community:

*	Police/Fire and emergency services

*	Street, sidewalk, bike path maintenance and
repair

*	Street trees, landscape and parks maintenance

Revenue from this modest tax provides approximately
3 million dollars a year for essential city services. Even
with this tax in place, Davis faces substantial service cuts.
Without it, the service cuts will be extreme.

Many cities have a similar local sales tax. Sacramento,
Woodland and West Sacramento all have the same half
cent sales tax measure in place. Shoppers in cities such as
San Francisco and Berkeley pay even more. San Francisco
has a local sales tax supplement over twice that of Davis.
Berkeley and Oakland have local sales tax supplements
3 times higher than the Davis tax.

When we shop and eat in these other cities, we pay
their local sales taxes which help fund their local services.
If we renew our own local sales tax supplement, visitors
from the region and from the Bay Area will in turn continue
to help us pay for our local services when they shop and
eat in Davis.

The current recession has caused a steep decline in
local revenues, and coupled with the state’s ongoing shift
of property tax revenues away from the city, it is more
crucial than ever that we protect local funding for essential
city services.

Please help protect the quality of life in Davis that we
all enjoy. Please join us in voting yes on Measure Q.

For more information: www.yesonq.net. Thank you.

s/ Ruth Uy Asmundson

Mayor, City of Davis
s/ Sue Greenwald

Davis City Councilmember
s/ Stephen Souza

Davis City Councilmember
s/ Don Saylor

Mayor Pro Tern, City of Davis
s/ Johaunes Troost

Chair, Finance & Budget Commission

CITY OF DAVIS

REBUTT/^. TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE Q

The supporters of Measure Q claim this sales tax renewal
is needed to continue funding “essential city services.”
What they do not tell you is that the current financial mess
evolved because the City Council irresponsibly approved
contracts of $100,000 or more for some city employees.
Perhaps the City of Davis would have more money for
“infrastructure maintenance and repair and other essential
services” if such decisions that were made were not
so reckless with Davis resident’s (taxpayer’s) money
initially. Considering the cities’ abysmal record of fiscal
mismanagement, Davis residents have no assurances that
the mode of “business as usual” in city government will not
resume if Measure Q passes. Therefore, we encourage
the voters to closely examine the argument in Q’s favor;
at no point in their case do they provide any guarantee
that the issue of excessive city employee salaries will be
addressed whatsoever.

Because other local governments have added half-cent
sales tax increases is a red-herring; Davis’ needs and
the needs of other cities differ (especially given the fact
that the overall tax rate with the addition of nine (9) other
property tax assessments from passage of recent ballot
measures in Davis is higher than in neighboring cities).
Continuing to excessively raise the tax burden on some
of the residents of Davis whom are in jeopardy (if they
have not already) of losing their home, their job or both is
wrong in this recession.

Therefore, consider voting No on Measure Q.

s/ John W. Jones, Davis Resident
s/ Thomas Randall, Jr., Davis Resident
s/ David Musser, Davis Resident

Yolo / 14

CITY OF DAVIS

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q

In the greatest economic downturns since the great
depression it is not the time to be renewing existing tax
increases. Many businesses in Davis have recently been
forced to close because excessive rent and property taxes
have become unaffordable. In 1998, there were five (5)
property tax assessments; now there are ten (10) due to
ballot measures that were passed for a wide variety of
local government bureaucracies in recent years. Water
and sewage fees for residents are expected to double.
Student fees are going to rise 32% at U.C. Davis. Recently,
the Board of Supervisors announced possible plans for a
second half-cent sales tax increase which could result in
even further tax hikes.

Meanwhile, the city is wrapped up in a major financial
scandal, where some public employees are receiving
salaries in excess of $100,000 per year, including
promotions for higher pay. Yet, the city talks about the
need for “essential services” as a justification for tax-
hike renewals. Residents should not fork over additional
money to a city government that has not kept its financial
house in order.

If Measure Q passes, businesses most undermined will
be smaller retailers. Because non->taxable items such as
A unprepared foods and medicines are largely the stock of
larger retailers, they would not be placed at a competitive
disadvange by the sales tax renewal to the extent of
smaller retailers whom sell mostly sales taxable items.

As the old adage goes, “you cannot get blood out of a
turnip.” In this lagging economy with pay cuts, furloughs,
or citizens laid-off, it is now time to prioritize where tax
revenues will go. The city should respect the fact that
Davis residents do not have bottomless pockets. Please
consider voting no on Measure Q.

For more information, please visit our website at:
http://www.yvm.net/vme/no-on-q

s/ David Glenn Musser, Davis Resident
s/ Thomas Randall, Jr., Davis Resident
s/ John W. Jones, Davis Resident

CITY OF DAVIS

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q

We would like to clarify two specific misleading comments
made by the Measure Q opponents:

•	Measure Q is a simple renewal of the existing V2 cent
city sales tax. If Measure Q passes, your sales tax will
remain the same as it is today; it will NOT increase.

•	The opponents of the renewal are using scare tactics.
Measure Q will NOT put Davis businesses at a
competitive disadvantage as the opponents claim, since
most regional cities where we shop have equal or greater
local sales taxes.

If Measure Q fails, the quality of life that we enjoy
in Davis will be severely compromised.

AsweexplainedintheargumentinfavorofMeasureQ,
the revenue stream that results from this small tax provides
approximately 3 million dollars a year to fund city services.
Even with this tax in place, we will be facing substantial
service cuts due to the effects of the recession and the
continuing state shift of revenues away from cities.

Withoutthe revenue stream that the MeasureQ renewal
provides, the fiscal outlook for the city will be truly dire,
and service cuts will start to seriously degrade our quality
of life.

Davis is known regionally and throughout the country
as an unusually fine place to live, work and study. We think
that renewing the modest V2 cent sales tax is a small price
to pay to retain our quality of life.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure Q.

www.yesonq.net.

s/ Stephen Souza, Davis City Councilmember
s/ Sue Greenwald, Davis City Councilmember

4

CITY OF DAVIS

MEASURE Q
ORDINANCE NO. 2353

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DAVIS AMENDING ARTICLE 15.19 OF CHAPTER 15 TO THE CITY OF DAVIS
MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO RE-AUTHORIZING AND EXTENDING THE ONE-HALF CENT TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX FOR GENERAL PURPOSES THROUGH AND INCLUDING DECEMBER 31, 2016 SUBJECT TO THE
APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS TO CONTINUE TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 7285.9 and 7290, the City of Davis (the “City”)
has the authority to levy a Transactions and Use Tax for general purposes; and

WHEREAS, a majority of the voters of the City approved a one-half of one percent (0.5%) Transactions and Use Tax at
an election held on March 2, 2004; and

WHEREAS, the City’s Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance is found in Article 15.19.0 of Chapter 15 of the City’s
Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, Section 15.19.020 of Article 15.19.0 sets forth a “Termination Date” of December 31,2010, at which time
Article 15.19.0 will be repealed unless an extension or re-authorization is approved by the voters of the City at an
election called for that purpose; and

WHEREAS, an extension or re-authorization of the City’s Transactions and Use Tax will be submitted to the voters to
extend the “Termination Date” of Article 15.19.0 to December 31,2016.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Amendment.

*

The definition of “Termination Date” in Section 15.19.020(c) of Article 15.19.0 of the City’s Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

15.19.020	Definitions

(c) “Termination date” initially means December 31,2016, and as of that date this Article is repealed unless an
extension or re-authorization of this Article is approved by the voters of the City at an election called for that purpose.

SECTION 2. Approval by the Voters.

This Ordinance shall be submitted to the voters at an election to be held on June 8, 2010. Upon approval by a majority
of the voters of the City voting on this Ordinance, the Transactions and Use Tax set forth in Article 15.19.0 of the City’s
Municipal Code shall be re-authorized and extended through and including December 31,2016.

INTRODUCED on the 19th of January, 2010, and PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Davis the
26th day of January, 2010, by a two-thirds vote of the City Council, by the following vote:

AYES:	Greenwald, Saylor, Souza, Asmundson

NOES:	Heystek

Ruth Uy Asmundson, Ph.D.

Mayor

ATTEST:

L

Yolo / 16

Zoe S. Mirabile, CMC
City Clerk