Measure G: Parcel Tax, Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District

To retain qualified and experienced teachers, keep schools safe and clean, maintain high quality academics, including reading, writing, math, and science, continue a well-rounded education including Spanish, art, and other educational enrichment programs, maintain updated computer technology, and maintina small class sizes, shall Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District authorize an annual school parcel tax of $95 per parcel for four years, with an exemption for seniors, no funds used for administrator's salaries, and every dollar staying in local schools?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:
A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a $95 per parcel qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a four-year period of time.

A NO vote on this measure means:
A "no" vote is a vote not to approve a $95 per parcel qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a four-year period of time.

Impartial Analysis from Acting County Counsel
A school district, following notice and a public hearing, has authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and sections 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 of the California Government Code.
The Board of Trustees of the Loma Prieta Joint Union School District proposes levying a qualified special tax on each parcel within the district. The owners of each parcel of taxable parcel in the district would annually pay $95 per parcel for a period of 4 years, commencing July 1, 2010.
The purpose of the tax proposed by Measure G is to: retain qualified and experienced teachers; keep schools safe and clean; maintain a high quality core academic education, including reading, writing, math, and science; continue a well-rounded education that includes Spanish, Art, PE and other educational enrichment programs; maintain up-to-date computers and technology; and maintain small class sizes. Under no circumstances would the proceeds of this special tax be authorized to be used for administrators' salaries or benefits.
Any parcels owned and occupied by persons age 65 or older, or those receiving Supplemental Security Income, regardless of age, and using the parcel solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, may be exempted from this parcel tax. In order to receive this exemption, these owners or persons must submit an annual application for the exemption to the Board of Trustees prior to July 1st of any year.
The proceeds of the special tax would be deposited into a separate fund. These proceeds would only be applied to the purposes identified above and an annual written report would be made to the Board of Trustees showing the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of this tax, as well as the status of any projects, programs or purposes authorized to be funded by the school district.
If the special tax is approved, the district's appropriations limit would be increased by an amount equal to the special tax collected for each year the special tax is authorized.
A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a $95 per parcel qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a four-year period of time.
A "no" vote is a vote not to approve a $95 per parcel qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a four-year period of time.
Miguel Marquez Acting County Counsel  By: /s/ Susan Swain Senior Lead Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure G
Vote Yes on Measure G to support continued academic excellence in Loma Prieta Elementary and CT English Middle Schools.
Our local Loma Prieta schools offer something special to our children - experienced teachers, safe and clean facilities and high-quality programs in reading, writing, science and math. Our students experience small classes, a comprehensive academic curriculum, and achieve test scores that are in the top 7% in the state.
However, ongoing state budget cuts are threatening the schools' ability to continue providing a well-rounded and challenging education for local students. The state is simply an unreliable partner when it comes to protecting education.
That is why your YES vote on Measure G is so critical. It will provide stable funding to protect the excellent education in our Loma Prieta schools. Not one penny of these funds can be taken away by the State.
Measure G would help:
	•	Retain qualified and experienced teachers
	•	Protect core academic programs including reading, writing, science and math
	•	Keep schools safe and clean
	•	Maintain up-to-date computers and technology in classrooms
	•	Preserve a well-rounded education including Spanish, music, art and other educational enrichment programs
	•	Maintain small class sizes 
Measure G is fiscally responsible:
	•	Every penny of Measure G will go directly to our schools and cannot be taken away by the State
	•	No funds can be spent on administrators' salaries
	•	Expires in 4 years and cannot be renewed without voter approval
	•	Senior citizen homeowners can receive an exemption 
Join parents, teachers and community members in voting YES on Measure G to protect the keys to student success--strong academic programs, safe classrooms and excellent teachers. Our great schools are part of what makes this community such a desirable place to live.
Help continue Loma Prieta's tradition of academic excellence. Vote YES on Measure G.
/s/ Neil Wiley Editor; Mountain Resident 45 years /s/ Sharon Dahnert President of Loma Prieta Teachers' Assoc; CT English Teacher /s/ Patricia Hughes Retired Assistant Principal, Los Gatos High School /s/ Jill Logar Parent; President of the CT English Home & School Club /s/ Terence Leary President of Loma Prieta Community Foundation

(No argument against Measure G was submitted.)

Full Text of Measure G
INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE
To retain qualified and experienced teachers, keep schools safe and clean, maintain a high quality core academic education, including reading writing, math, and science, continue a well-rounded education that includes Spanish, Art, PE and other educational enrichment programs, maintain up-to-date computers and technology, and maintain small class sizes, the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District (K-8) proposes to establish an education parcel tax for a period of 4 years, beginning July 1, 2010, at the rate of $95 per year, on each assessor's parcel located within the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District, with an exemption available for senior citizens and persons on Supplemental Security Income, and to implement accountability measures in connection with the temporary levy to ensure the funds are used to:
	•	retain qualified and experienced teachers; 
	•	keep schools safe and clean; 
	•	maintain a high quality core academic education, including reading writing, math, and science; 
	•	continue a well-rounded education that includes Spanish, Art, PE and other educational enrichment programs; 
	•	maintain up-to-date computers and technology; and 
	•	maintain small class sizes. 
AMOUNT OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT 
The education parcel tax shall be $95 (or less as provided below) per year for four (4) full years assessed against each parcel.
The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the District.
DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"  For purposes of the special tax, the term "Parcel" means any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector's office or the Santa Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax in such year.
EXEMPTION FOR CONTIGUOUS PARCELS  For purposes of this special tax, any such "Parcels" which are (i) contiguous, (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of each year to the Board of Trustees of the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District be treated as a single "parcel" for purposes of the levy of this education parcel tax.
EXEMPTION OF SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS  Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either (a) 65 years of age or older or (b) persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from the education parcel tax by annually submitting an application, by June 15 of each year, to the Board of Trustees of the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District.
With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Clara County and the Santa Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector, respectively, or other appropriate County tax officials shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the education parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen and SSI Exemptions and the classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.
REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT  The collection of the education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal government sources that would otherwise be available to the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District during the period of the education parcel tax. In the event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District shall cease the levy or shall reduce the education parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.
ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES  In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the education parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the education parcel tax, as identified above.