J

I

H

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK
MEASURE E

To preserve the safety and character of Rohnert Park, and

E maintain and protect general City services, including
essential services such as neighborhood police patrols;
fire protection; 9-1-1 emergency response; gang and sex
offender enforcement; disaster preparedness; street paving and
pothole repair; park maintenance; and other essential services
shall the City of Rohnert Park enact a one-half cent transaction
(sales) and use tax for five years, subject to annual audits and
public review, with no money for Sacramento?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council
of the City of Rohnert Park to levy a General Transactions and Use Tax (i.e. sales
tax) if the ordinance proposing the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all
members of the City Council and the tax is approved by a majority vote of the City's
voters.

Measure E proposes to enact a one-half of one percent (0.50%) increase to the
sales tax rate on purchases made in the City of Rohnert Park. The proposed tax
would be in addition to existing sales taxes and would be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as other sales taxes. Measure E would continue for a
period of five (5) years from the date of commencement. Any extension to the dura-
tion of the proposed tax beyond five (5) years would require action by the City
Council and a new vote of the public. The measure requires a majority vote (i.e. 50
percent plus one) to pass.

Measure E is considered a general tax under state law. As a result, if adopted, the
revenues received from the tax would be placed in the City’s general fund and
could be used in any manner authorized by law and as directed by the City Council.
Accordingly, all monies collected could be used by the City to pay for general City
operations and programs such as police and fire services, street maintenance,
park and recreation programs, and capital improvements.

A yes vote on Measure E would increase the sales tax rate in the City of Rohnert
Park from the current nine percent (9.00%) to nine and one-half percent (9.50%) for
a period of five (5) years. A no vote on Measure E would leave the sales tax rate in
the City of Rohnert Park at its current rate of nine percent (9.00%).

s/Michelle Marchetta Kenyon, City Attorney
City of Rohnert Park

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Vote Yes on E: Rohnert Park's Essential City Services Temporary Funding Mea-
sure to prevent further drastic cuts to your essential services. Yes on E protects
Rohnert Park against unfair Sacramento money grabs!

State budget cuts and “takeaways” have dramatically reduced the money available
for our services—over $5.5 million taken by Sacramento, putting essential police,
fire, street paving, pothole repair, and park maintenance at risk,

Rohnert Park faces a severe fiscal emergency—we've had no choice but to slash the
community's services and lay off significant numbers of employees, including police
officers and firefighters—in the coming months additional cuts will have to be made.

Without Yes on E, drastic cuts to public safety services will most likely have to be
made. Yes on E allows the city some time to continue to preserve the safety of
Rohnert Park by helping to: Protect remaining 9-1-1 emergency/medical response
services; maintain remaining gang/sex offender enforcement programs; and pro-
tect most remaining police and fire services.

Yes on E’s strict fiscal accountability provisions and requirements are: Annual
audits and published expenditure reports, ensuring funds are used appropriately;
Rohnert Park visitors share the V2 cent cost; Measure E is not a property tax;
Measure E is not applied to food purchased as groceries or prescription medicine;
Measure E expires in five years; every penny stays in Rohnert Park, and can't be
taken by Sacramento!

We've all had different perspectives about various issues. But we are united on the
severity of the City’s financial situation and the need to act. That's why we voted
unanimously to place Measure E on your ballot. Join all of the Council and the
community in voting Yes on E to protect our services and keep our money local!
Visit www.rDcitv.org - learn more about our fiscal emergency.

ROHNERT PARK CITY COUNCIL

s/ Pam Stafford, Mayor	si	Gina	Belforte,	Vice	Mayor

s/Amie Breeze, Council Member	sI Joseph T. Callinan, Council Member

si Jake Mackenzie, Council Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Nobody in Sacramento forced the Rohnert Park city council to spend $8,535,164
on a new city hall, $13,234,656 on the eastside sewer line intended primarily to
serve yet to be started development, $4,461,043 on street paving which is already
failing, or $2,505,099 on what the city has labeled “various other projects". These
four items alone exceeded spending authorization by a total of $12,756,564. This
proposed tax is expected to raise approximately $2,500,000 per year for five years.
Coincidentally, this is almost the same amount as was overspent on these four
items alone.

How has your family benefited from the $8,535,164 spent on the new city hall or the
$13,234,656 spent on the eastside sewer line? What is the benefit to taxpayers of
spending public funds on consultants and slick mailers designed to help pass this
tax?'

The argument in favor of this tax is signed by those most responsible for the city’s
financial situation, the city council. No member of the city council has ever criticized
the overspending on the four items listed above. Why would giving the city more
money change their spending habits?

CITIZENS FOR FISCAL SANITY	si	Larry	Resnick

si John F. Hudson, Chairman	Member,	Citizens	for	Fiscal	Sanity

33

9615

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

Gross overspending is the true cause of the financial problems of the City of
Rohnert Park, Some glaring examples are $8,535,164 squandered on the new
city hall, some $1,747,164 above the authorized expenditure of $6,788,000;
$4,461,043 spent on citywide pavement maintenance, some $2,169,842 above the
authorized expenditure of $2,291,201; $2,505,099 spent on what the city labeled
“various other projects,” some $2,163,492 over the authorized expenditure of
$341,607; and $13,234,656 spent on the eastside sewer project, some $6,676,056
over the authorized expenditure of $6,558,600. These figures are taken directly
from page F-39 of the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the City of
Rohnert Park for the fiscal year ending June 30,2009.

The City has even spent your tax money on consultants and propaganda for the
purpose of helping pass this tax. The latest propaganda features a pie chart labeled
“Where does the money go?” According to this pie chart, 53.6% of the money goes
for public safety; 10.8% goes for parks and recreation; 7.6% goes to public works;
21.6% goes for “general government;” and 6.3% goes for “other.” In other words,
some 27.9% of the city’s money is spent on "general government” and “other."

We cannot solve the City's overspending problem by feeding it more money any
more than we can cure an addict with more drugs. Giving the City of Rohnert Park
more money will only encourage it to continue to spend in the irresponsible manner
that city officials are accustomed to. The only way to force government to change is
to take away the money. A “Yes" vote is a vote for more overspending. A “No” vote
is a vote for change.

CITIZENS FOR FISCAL SANITY
s/ John F. Hudson, Chairman si Harry Chip Worthington, Assistant Chairman

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

Do Measure E opponents read the newspapers? Watch the news? California is in
crisis. Sacramento politicians have a whopping $20.6 Billion state deficit and
continue to take money from Rohnert Park - $5.5 Million and counting - to save
their necks.

Yes on E establishes a guaranteed source of local funding for Rohnert Park’s com-
munity services that can’t be taken by Sacramento.

Fact: Rohnert Park has a severe budget deficit and has already made $5 Million in
cuts, with large eliminations in the number of employees - including 7 public safety
officers - and across the board salary reductions.

Fact: Without Yes on E, more drastic cuts to public safety - impacting 9-1-1 emergency
and medical response times and crime prevention - will be made.

Yes on E prevents immediate decreases in police officers and firefighters pro-
tecting Rohnert Park, preserving our safety. Yes on E helps us maintain and protect
essential 9-1-1 emergency and medical response services and our City’s financial
viability. Yes on E protects our taxpayer dollars from state takeaways and keeps
our money local. Yes on E is temporary emergency funding which expires unless
extended by voters. Yes on E means out of town visitors and shoppers share the
h cent cost.

In this tough economy, half a penny is well worth maintaining our quality of life and
the stability of Rohnert Park as a safe, middle-class community with quality services,
parks, recreational activities, and a strong business climate.

Join Rohnert Park taxpayers, seniors, business leaders, public safety officers -
Vote Yes on E.

si Patricia Miller	si	Brian Masterson

Rohnert Park Business Owner	25 years Law Enforcement

si Carlos Deza	si	Shawn Jackson

Senior Advisory Commission Member	Chamber of Commerce Member

si Leonard Carlson
Mobile Home Owners Association

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO.________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ROHNERT PARK, CALIFORNIA,
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY
THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, the City is experiencing an existing and immediate funding crisis,
which is the result of factors largely outside of its control, including national eco-
nomic trends, rapid increases in the cost of employee retirement and health insurance
benefits, decreases in revenue from existing taxes and fees, increases in charges
by the County of Sonoma, and unpredictable State takeaways of local revenue.

WHEREAS, the City has taken significant steps to reduce its operational costs in-
cluding: cutting service positions, including public safety officers, negotiated salary
reductions with all staff members, and implemented cost saving and efficiencies by
consolidating services and eliminating unnecessary overhead.

WHEREAS, because of changes in State law, particularly the approval of Proposi-
tions 62 and 218, the City has very few means available for increasing General
Fund revenue.

WHEREAS, absent a new source of General Fund revenue, the City's ability to
maintain staff and service levels is uncertain. Despite the budget cuts made by the
City, and the significant reduction in the number of City service providers and em-
ployees, the City still faces a severe budget deficit of close to $6 million annually
with currently only $6 million left in emergency reserves.

WHEREAS, unless staff and service levels are at least partially restored, public
facilities and property will not be properly maintained, public safety standards will
degrade, crime and violence will increase, the community will not have adequate
and safe recreational opportunities, businesses and families will be discouraged
from moving to or remaining in Rohnert Park, and the health, safety, and welfare of
the residents of Rohnert Park will be endangered.

WHEREAS, because of that threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, an
emergency exists in the City, as the term “emergency" is used in Article XIIIC. sec-
tion 2(b) of the California Constitution. The City must immediately address that
emergency by ensuring that the City has the resources necessary to preserve the
public health, safety, and welfare.

WHEREAS, the identified emergency necessitates that the City Council submit an
essential services temporary funding measure to the voters of Rohnert Park at the
June 8, 2010 election, even though such an election would not be consolidated
with a general election for a member of the Council.

WHEREAS, article XIIIC, section 2(b) of the California Constitution permits the
City, in an emergency situation declared by a unanimous vote of the Council, to
seek voter approval for a general tax at an election that is not consolidated with an
election for a member of the Council.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City of Rohnert Park does hereby ordain as follows:

SECTION 1: “Chapter 3.21 Transactions and Use Tax” shall be added to the
Rohnert Park Municipal Code and shall read as follows:

“Chapter 3.21 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX”

Sections:

3.21.010	Short Title

3.21.020	Operative Date

3.21.030	Purpose

3.21.040	Contract with State

CONT. NEXT PAGE

34

9615

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E, CONT.

3.21.050	Transactions Tax Rate

3.21.060	Place of Sale

3.21.070	Use Tax Rate

3.21.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law

3.21.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes

3.21.100	Permit Not Required

3.21.110	Exemptions and Exclusions

3.21.120	Amendments

3.21.130	Enjoining Collection Forbidden

3.21.140	Annual Audit and Public Report

3.21.150 Termination Date

3.21.010	Short Title

This ordinance shall be known as the City of Rohnert Park Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance. The City of Rohnert Park hereinafter shall be called "City." This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.21.020	Operative Date

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

3.21,030	Purpose

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and di-
rects that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provi-
sions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the
City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called
for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provi-
sions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California in-
sofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and col-
lecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be adminis-
tered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1,6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize
the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize
the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions
of this ordinance.

3.21.040	Contract with State

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization
to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transac-
tions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with
the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.21.050	Transactions Tax Rate

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby im-
posed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of .5% of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold
at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.21.060	Place of Sale

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by

the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall in-
clude delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

3.21.070	Use Tax Rate

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory
at the rate of .5% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regard-
less of the place to which delivery is made.

3.21.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
ordinance as though fully set forth herein,

3.21.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitu-
tion shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury,
or the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections re-
ferring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other con-
sumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, useorother
consumption of tangible personal property which would .not be subject to tax by the
state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State" in the phrase “re-
tailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

3.21.100	Permit Not Required

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

3.21.110	Exemptions and Exclusions

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradiey-Burns Uniform Local

CONT. NEXT PAGE

35

9615

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E, CONT.

Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum prod-
ucts, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county
in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point out-
side the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of air-
craft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws
of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in ad-
dition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tan-
gible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property
for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	Forthe purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a con-

tract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or
not such'right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business
in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not lim-
ited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any re-
tailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehi-
cle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who
registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D,	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the prop-
erty the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.21.120	Amendments

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Divi-
sion 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1,6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of
tax imposed by this ordinance.

The foregoing amendments shall not require voter approval.

The following amendments to this ordinance must be approved by the voters of
the City of Rohnert Park: increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for
calculating the tax such that a tax increase would result; imposing the tax on trans-
actions and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs
automatically by operation of the preceding paragraph); or extending the tax beyond
the fifth anniversary of the operative date. The City Council may otherwise amend
this ordinance without submitting the amendment to the voters for approval.

3.21.130	Enjoining Collection Forbidden

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against
any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordi-
nance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or
any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.21.140	Annual Audit and Public Report

Annually the City Council retains an independent auditor to conduct an audit of and
provide audited financial statements for all of the City’s financial activities. The audi-
tor shall include an accounting of the revenue received from the tax and expendi-
tures thereof in the audited financial statements. The auditor's report shall be
presented to the Council and made available to the public. Additionally, the Director
of Administrative Services shall annually prepare and present to the Council and
the public a report in conjunction with the audit that reviews the status and perfor-
mance of the programs and services funded wholly or partially with proceeds of the
tax.

3.21.150 Termination Date

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the fifth anni-
versary of the operative date, unless extended by a majority vote of the voters of
the City.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

36

9615

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E, CONT.

SECTION 2: SEVERABILITY. The City Council hereby declares that every sec-
tion, paragraph, sentence, clause, and phrase of this ordinance is severable. If any
section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason
found to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not
affect the validity or constitutionality of the remaining sections, paragraphs, sen-
tences, clauses, or phrases.

SECTION 3: EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relating to the levying and collec-
tion of the City transactions and use taxes shall take effect immediately.

SECTION 4: PUBLICATION. The Clerk of the City of Rohnert Park is hereby directed
to cause the following summary of the ordinance to be published by a newspaper
of general circulation, published and circulated in the City of Rohnert Park:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance adopts a one-half
cent (0.5%) transactions and use tax on the sale or consumption of tangible
personal property within the City of Rohnert Park. The tax shall terminate
automatically upon the fifth anniversary of the State beginning to collect it,
unless extended by the voters.

This ordinance was introduced by the City Council of the City of Rohnert Park on

February 23,2010 and adopted on February_, 2010 by the following roll call

vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK

Mayor

ATTEST:

City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney

37

9615