PAGE

Wbioim USL

I,. ,	,',

cS?

I'rtstuz 5:

STATE MEASURES	
_ _ CHANGES LEGISLATIVE VOTE REQUIREMENT TO PASS BUDGET AND 9 k BUDGET-RELATED LEGISLATION FROM TWO-THIRDS TO A SIMPLE *** MAJORITY. RETAINS TWO-THIRDS VOTE REQUIREMENT FOR TAXES. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Legislature permanently forfeits daily salary and expenses until budget bill passes. Fiscal Impact: In some years, the conte could be changed due to the lower legislative vote requirement in this measure. The e depend on the Legislature’s future actions.	184	yes-ko  185	no->o  nts of the state budget (tent of changes would
_ - REQUIRES THAT CERTAIN STATE AND LOCAL FEES BE APPROVED 9k BY TWO-THIRDS VOTE. FEES INCLUDE THOSE THAT ADDRESS  ADVERSE IMPACTS ON SOCIETY OR THE ENVIRONMENT CAUSED BY THE FEE-PAYER'S BUSINESS. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Fiscal Impact: Depending on decisions by governing bodies and voters, decreased state revenues and spending (up to billions of dollars annually). Increased transportatic General Fund costs ($1 billion annually).	188	yes-*o  189	no»*o  and local government n spending and state
__ ELIMINATES STATE COMMISSION ON REDISTRICTING. 97 CONSOLIDATES AUTHORITY FOR REDISTRICTING WITH ELECTED 1 REPRESENTATIVES. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Eliminates 14-member redistricting commission. Consolidates authority for establishing state Assembly, Senate, and Board of Equalization districts with electe draw congressional districts, Fiscal Impact: Possible reduction of state redistric $1 million over the next year. Likely reduction of these costs of a few million dollars beginning in 2020.	192	YES^O  193	no«*o  d representatives who ting costs of around once every ten years
SCHOOL  POMONA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION	
To maintain and improve academic programs including math, science, reading, history and writing; computer technology, music and arts; and retain highly qualified teachers; shall Pomona Unified School District be authorized to raise $4 million per year through a $96 parcel tax for four years (per voter pamphlet), provided there is an annual accounting of funds, senior exe are spent on neighborhood schools and cannot be taken by the state and used else	198	yes-*o  199	no-*o  mptions, and all funds where?

END OF BALLOT

08-030E

N LA 408-011

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE SS

INTRODUCTION

To maintain and improve academic programs including math, science, reading,
history and writing; computer technology, music and arts; and retain highly
qualified teachers; shall Pomona Unified School District be authorized to raise
$4 million per year through a $96 parcel tax for four years (per voter pamphlet),
provided there are senior exemptions, that no money is used for administrative
salaries, or consultants except those consultants that provide direct support for
student programs, and all funds are spent on neighborhood schools and cannot
be taken by the state and used elsewhere?

PURPOSE

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the state and to maintain
exceptional public education in our schools, the Pomona Unified School District
proposes to levy and collect a parcel tax at the rate of $96 per parcel on each
assessor’s parcel located within the District for a period of 4 years, beginning
July 1, 2011, in order to produce approximately $4 million per fiscal year (sec
“PROCEDURES” below), with an optional exemption annually available, upon
application, for senior citizens, and to implement accountability measures to
ensure that funds are used as required by law:

-	Preserve excellence in core academic programs such as reading, writing,
science, history and math;

-	Minimize class size increases in all grades and layoffs for highly qualified
teachers and school employees;

-	Continue teacher professional development by providing training programs
and activities that support high quality teaching;

-	Update computers and technology throughout schools and facilities;

-	Help protect arts and music instruction, course offerings and electives that
provide a well-rounded education, challenge students, allow students to be
highly competitive for high school and provide instructional support and
intervention;

-	Reduce the impact of deep budget cuts by providing a stable local funding
source that cannot be taken away by the state or other school districts; and

-	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District
accountability through required annual accounting in accordance with
accountability measures.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 408-016

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE SS (Continued)

The Board of Education will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes listed
above, unless the Board of Education determines in any given year that changes
in student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal
funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Board of
Education will not fund any program or reduction other than those listed above
from the proceeds of the parcel taxes.

SENIOR EXEMPTION

In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community, any parcel
owned and occupied as a principal residence by a person 65 years of age or older
shall be exempt from the levy of the parcel tax upon proper application to the
District. The exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures to be
prescribed by the District or otherwise as required by law or by the Los Angeles
County Tax Collector.

PROCEDURES

Subject to two-thirds (2/3) approval of the voters, the parcel tax of $96 per parcel
(as described below) shall become effective as of July 1, 2011 and be collected by
the Los Angeles County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and
shall be subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by
said tax collector.

A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax
bill from the Los Angeles County Tax Collector, however, with respect to any
parcel that is classified by the Los Angeles County Assessor as multi-family
residential containing 2 to 4 units shall constitute 2 parcels, and those containing
5 or more units shall constitute 5 parcels, for the purposes of levying and
collecting the parcel tax against such parcels to the extent permitted by law.

All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be
exempt from the parcel tax. In addition, seniors may apply for an exemption as
described above under “SENIOR EXEMPTION”.

The procedures described herein with respect to the levy and collection of the
parcel tax and exemptions, and any additional procedures established by the
Board, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an
exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the parcel tax. Whether any
particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be
determined by the District in coordination with the County as necessary.

The Board of Education may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures
as it deems necessary or convenient for the administration of the parcel tax.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901221-2

N LA 408-017

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE SS (Continued)

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections
50075.1 and 50075.3. the following accountability measures, among others, shall
apply to the parcel taxes levied in accordance with this measure: (a) the specific
purposes of the parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the
proceeds of the parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes
identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the parcel taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report
shall be made to the Board of Education of the District showing (i) the amount
of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the parcel taxes and (ii)
the status of any projects, programs, or purposes required or authorized to be
funded from the proceeds of the parcel taxes, as identified above.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in state or federal funding to the District
because of the District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are
reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the parcel
taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such state or
federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education of the District hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and
clause of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Education and
the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other
provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part
be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent
allowed by law.

PR-901221-3

N LA 408-018

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE SS

By Andrea Sheridan Ordin, County Counsel

Approval of Measure SS would authorize the Board of Education (“Board”) of
the Pomona Unified School District (“District”) to levy a special parcel tax
(“Tax”) of $96 per year on each parcel of taxable real property that receives a
separate property tax bill located within the District. For purposes of
determining the tax, multifamily dwellings containing two (2) to four (4) units
constitute two (2) parcels, and those containing five (5) or more units shall
constitute five (5) parcels. The Tax would be levied commencing on July 1, 2011.

The Tax revenues shall only be applied for the purposes of preserving core
academic programs, minimizing class size increases and layoffs of teachers and
school employees, providing teacher development and training, updating
computers and technology, protecting arts and music instruction, and reducing
the impact of budget cuts.

All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be
exempt from the Tax. An exemption shall be available to persons who are 65
years or older and who own and occupy, as a principal residence, a parcel and
apply to the District for such exemption under procedures established by the
District or by law.

The proceeds of the Tax shall only be applied to the specific purposes identified
in the Measure and shall be deposited into a special account for the proceeds of
the Tax. An annual written report shall be made to the Board showing the
amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the Tax, and the
status of any projects required or authorized to be funded from the Tax. The
collection of the Tax is not intended to decrease or offset any state, or federal
funding otherwise available to the District at any time during which the Tax may
be levied. In the event that the Tax has such effect, the District shall reduce the
Tax to an amount necessary to restore the decrease or offset of funding.

The Taxes levied under this Measure shall be collected by the Treasurer and Tax
Collector at the same time and manner, and subject to the same penalties, as
general ad valorem property taxes.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-9012? 1-4

N LA 408-019

iia

■mi

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE SS

Measure SS will provide our schools with a guaranteed source of locally
controlled funding for academic programs such as math, science, reading and
writing, music, technology, and art. Additionally, this funding will help our
District support student learning by retaining highly qualified and experienced
teachers. By law, Measure SS funds can only be used to improve our
neighborhood schools and cannot be taken by the State for other uses.

Measure SS will guarantee funding for our local schools and will allow Pomona
Unified to continue to emphasize academic excellence in our classrooms,
preserve art and music programs, and update classroom technology. It will
maintain and improve core academics such as math, science, reading and writing.

Measure SS will minimize class size increases in all grades and help retain highly
qualified and experienced teachers and other school employees.

Measure SS will fund computers and other classroom technology.

Measure SS also protects taxpayers by being limited to only four years. Funds
can only be used only to improve our neighborhood schools and no funds can be
spent on administrative salaries or consultants.

Measure SS provides for a senior citizens exemption.

By law, all Measure SS funds must be spent locally and cannot be taken by the
State for other uses. In addition, annual spending audits are required to ensure
funds are spent as promised.

Our local schools are our community’s most important asset and number one
priority. Measure SS deserves our support. Top quality teachers, strong academic
programs and community support have kept our schools strong. Now, we need
your support more than ever.

Please join us in working to uphold the quality of our schools and our community
by voting YES ON MEASURE SS!

SAMUEL THARPE

Retired Educator & Community Member

JOE ROMERO, JR.

Retired Police Chief

ANNE HENDERSON

Retired Teacher, Community Member

EMIRICK HARO
Parent, Community Member

VICTOR CACERES
Community Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

N LA 408-020