
<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE F

ANALYSIS BY ALAMEDA COUNTY COUNSEL OF
THE ALAMEDA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION
IMPROVEMENT MEASURE
This measure submits to the voters the question of
whether to increase the fee for motor vehicle registration
to fund transportation-related programs and projects with-
in Alameda County. Approval of Measure F by a majority
of voters would allow the Alameda County Transportation
Commission (“Commission”), formerly the Alameda Coun-
ty Congestion Management Agency, to increase the motor
vehicle registration fee by ten dollars ($10.00).

The Commission has the authority to increase the
motor vehicle registration fee upon approval by a majority
of the votes cast under California Government Code Sec-
tion 65089.20. If a majority of the qualified electors voting
on this measure vote for approval, the ten dollar increase
will apply to the original motor vehicle registration occur-
ring on or after six months following the adoption of the
measure by the voters and to a renewal of registration with
an expiration date on or after that six-month period.

The total estimated revenue from the fee increase is
approximately 11 million dollars per year (“revenue”).
The measure requires that the proceeds be used only for
the projects and purposes set forth in the Alameda County
Vehicle Registration Fee Expenditure Plan (the “Plan”) set
forth in the full text of the measure printed in the sample
ballot. According to the Plan, 60 percent of the revenue
will be spent on local road improvement and repairs; 25
percent of the revenue will be spent on transit systems for
transit service expansion, park-and-ride facility improve-
ments, increased usage of clean transit vehicles, etc.; 10
percent of the revenue will be used for a local technology
program, which seeks to improve road, transit, pedestrian,
and bicycle technology applications; and 5 percent of the
revenue will be spent on pedestrian and bicyclist access
and safety programs for schools, students, and transit
hubs. Not more than 5 percent of the fees shall be used for
administrative costs.

Under the measure, the Commission will draft and
make available an annual report. The annual report will
include, among other items, the amount of revenues collected, expenditures by program, and the amount spent on
administrative costs.

If a majority of the qualified electors voting on this
measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail,
and the Commission will not be authorized to increase the
fee outlined above. <impartialend>




<impartialsigs> s/RICHARD E. WINNIE
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>





<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Vote Yes on Measure F to keep vital revenue in Alameda
County to address our local transportation needs. All fund-
ing will stay right here-none of it can be taken by the
State. Funding from state government is unreliable. Mea-
sure F will provide a secure, local source of funds for crit-
ically important local transportation projects.

Vote Yes on Measure F to repair and maintain local streets
and roads, making them safer for drivers, pedestrians and
bike riders. Better streets and roads help keep down our
gas costs, lower our vehicle maintenance costs and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. Measure F will also help us
qualify for matching transportation funding grants.

Vote Yes on Measure F to improve public transportation in
Alameda County. This includes making it easier for resi-
dents in every part of the County to get to work and school
using public transportation, as well as making it easier for
residents who combine public transit and other forms of
transportation to get where they’re going.

Vote Yes on Measure F to promote programs that improve
our air quality and benefit the environment by reducing
pollution from cars and trucks. Measure F will also pro-
mote programs to reduce commute hour traffic, like
telecommuting and ride sharing, and increase the use of
smart technology to improve the flow of traffic on our
busiest roads and freeways.

Alameda County residents need reliable, efficient, green
transportation options-for better quality of life, stronger
economy and cleaner environment. Measure F will fund our
local transportation priorities now-when we need it most.
For more information, please visit our website,
www.YesonACTIM.com.

Please join us and Vote Yes on Measure F. <favorend>




<favorsigs> s/Loni Hancock
State Senator
s/Scott Haggerty
First District Alameda County Supervisor
s/Nathan Miley
Fourth District Alameda County Supervisor
s/Wendy Alfsen
Transportation Chair, Sierra Club, SF Bay Chapter
s/California Alliance for Jobs
by James Earp
Executive Director <favorsigsend>





NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F WAS
SUBMITTED.




<resolution> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE F

ALAMEDA COUNTY CONGESTION
MANAGEMENT AGENCY
RESOLUTION NUMBER 10-09
A RESOLUTION OF THE ALAMEDA COUNTY
CONGESTION MANAGEMENT AGENCY
ADOPTING FINDINGS OF FACT, EXPENDITURE
PLAN AND BALLOT LANGUAGE FOR A
TEN DOLLAR VEHICLE REGISTRATION FEE
FOR TRANSPORTATION-RELATED
PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
WHEREAS, the Alameda County Congestion Man-
agement Agency (the “Agency”) shall place a majority
vote ballot measure before the voters of Alameda County
to authorize a ten dollar increase in the fees of motor vehi-
cle registration (the “Fee”) for transportation-related pro-
grams and projects; and

WHEREAS, the Agency, pursuant to California Gov-
ernment Code Section 65089.20 has prepared the findings
of fact that the programs and projects to be funded by the
fee increase have a relationship and benefit to the persons
who will be paying the fee, and the programs and projects
are consistent with the regional transportation plan; and
WHEREAS, the Agency Board, during its regular
monthly meeting on June 24, 2010, has considered the
related Board reports and documents presented by Agency
staff and consultants, including the Vehicle Registration
Fee Report on the Expenditure Plan (the “Report”) which
incorporates the “Required Findings of Fact,” and the
Vehicle Registration Fee Expenditure Plan (the “Plan”)
which allocates the revenue from the Fee to transportation-
related programs and projects that have a relationship or
benefit to the persons who pay the fee and that sustains the
County’s transportation network and reduces traffic con-
gestion and vehicle-related pollution.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the
Agency Board that the Agency has considered and hereby
adopts, in accordance with California Government Code
Section 65089.20, the Required Findings of Fact for the
Fee, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein
by this reference. The Agency also adopts the Plan its allo-
cations of revenue from the Fee to programs and projects
that have a relationship or benefit to the persons who pay
the fee, attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated
herein by this reference.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based on the forego
ing findings, the Agency hereby adopts this Resolution to
place a ballot measure before the voters of Alameda Coun-
ty to authorize a ten dollar increase in the motor vehicle
registration fee. The Agency staff is hereby authorized and
directed to request the Alameda County Registrar to place
the ballot measure on the November 2, 2010 ballot. The
ballot language of the proposed measure is set forth as fol-
lows:

To repair and maintain local streets and roads; improve
traffic flow and bicyclist, pedestrian and driver safety;
improve public transportation; and encourage green
transportation options; shall a local vehicle registration
fee of ten dollars be established in Alameda County

with expenditures subject to strict monitoring and with
all revenues staying in Alameda County?

____Yes

____No

The body of this Resolution, the ballot language and the
Plan will appear in the sample ballot. The Findings of Fact
approved by the Agency Board will be available on the
Agency website: alamedacountyvrf.org.

DULY PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Alameda
County Congestion Management Agency at the regular
meeting of the Board held on Thursday, June 24, 2010 in
Oakland, California by the following votes:

AYES:	NOES:	ABSTAIN:	ABSENT:

SIGNED:

Mark Green, Chairperson
ATTEST:

Gladys V. Parmelee, Board Secretary <resolutionend>




<summary> ALAMEDA COUNTY
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT MEASURE
EXPENDITURE PLAN

A.	Purpose of the Expenditure Plan

The Alameda County Vehicle Registration Fee Expendi-
ture Plan (Plan) will guide the annual expenditures of the
funds generated by a $10 per year vehicle registration fee
(Fee), if approved by voters in the November 2010 elec-
tion. Alameda County has very significant unfunded trans-
portation needs, and this Fee would provide funding to
meet some of those needs. It is expected that this Fee will
generate approximately $11 million per year.

The goal of this Plan is to support transportation invest-
ments in a way that sustains the County’s transportation
network and reduces traffic congestion and vehicle-related
pollution. The Fee would be a key part of an overall strate-
gy to develop a balanced, well thought-out program that
improves transportation and transit for County residents.
The Fee will fund programs that:

•	Repair and maintain local streets and roads in the county.

•	Make public transportation easier to use and more effi-
cient.

•	Make it easier to get to work or school, whether dri-
ving, using public transportation, bicycling or walking.

•	Reduce pollution from cars and trucks.

The Plan would have the following specific elements:

•	All of the money raised by the Fee would be used
exclusively for transportation in Alameda County.

•	None of the funds raised, outside of the costs incurred
by the Department of Motor Vehicle to collect the Fee,
can be taken by the State.

•	Projects and programs included in the Expenditure
Plan must have a relationship or benefit to the owner’s
of motor vehicles paying the Fee.

•	Help fund roadway repairs and maintenance that make
roads in Alameda County safer for motorists, bicyclists
and pedestrians.

•	Provide investments that will help create a smarter,
more efficient transportation system.

•	Establish a reliable source of funding to help fund crit-
ical and essential local transportation programs.

•	Provide matching funds for funding made available
from state general obligation bonds.

•	Maintain and improve the County’s transportation net-
work while maintaining geographic equity, over suc-
cessive five year cycles.

B.	Statutory Authorization and Requirements
The opportunity for a Countywide transportation agency
to place this Fee before the voters was authorized in 2009
by the passage of Senate Bill 83, authored by Senator Loni
Hancock (Oakland). The Alameda County Congestion
Management Agency (Agency) shall place a transporta-
tion measure (Measure) on the November 2, 2010 ballot to
enact a $10 vehicle registration fee that would be used for
local transportation and transit improvements throughout
Alameda County. A majority vote of the electorate is
required to adopt this Fee.

The statute requires that the Fee collected be used only to
pay for programs and projects that bear a relationship or
benefit to the owners of motor vehicles paying the Fee and
be consistent with a Regional Transportation Plan. The
Fee will be imposed on each annual motor-vehicle regis-
tration or renewal of registration in Alameda County
occurring on or after six-months following the November
2, 2010 election, where the Measure was approved by the
voters, for an unlimited period, unless otherwise terminat-
ed by the voters of Alameda County. To implement this
Fee, the statute requires the governing board of the
Agency to adopt an Expenditure Plan. The statute also
requires the ballot Measure resolution be approved by
majority vote of the Agency members at a noticed public
hearing.

C.	Programmatic Expenditures

The Plan identifies four types of programs that will receive
funds generated by the Fee. Below are descriptions of each pro-
gram and the percentage in parentheses of the annual revenue
that will be allocated to each program after deducting for the
Agency’s administrative costs.

Local Road Improvement and Repair Program (60%)

This program would provide funding for improving, main-
taining and rehabilitating local roads and traffic signals. It
also would incorporate the “complete streets” practice that
makes local roads safe for all modes, including bicyclists
and pedestrians, and accommodates transit. Projects eligi-
ble could include:

•	Street repaving and rehabilitation, including curbs,
gutters and drains

•	Traffic signal maintenance and upgrades, including
bicyclist and pedestrian treatments

•	Signing and striping on roadways, including traffic and
bicycle lanes and crosswalks

•	Sidewalk repair and installation

•	Bus stop improvements, including bus pads, turnouts
and striping

•	Improvements to roadways at rail crossings, including
grade separations and safety protection devices

•	Improvements to roadways with truck or transit routing
Transit for Congestion Relief Program (25%)

This program would seek to make it easier for drivers to use
public transportation, make the existing transit system more
efficient and effective, and improve access to schools and
jobs. The goal of this program is to decrease automobile
usage and thereby reduce both localized and area-wide con-
gestion and air pollution. Projects eligible could include:

•	Transit service expansion and preservation to provide
congestion relief such as express bus service in con-
gested areas

•	Development and implementation of transit priority
treatments on local roadways

•	Employer or school-sponsored transit passes such as
an “EcoPass Program”

•	Park-and-ride facility improvements

•	Increased usage of clean transit vehicles

•	Increased usage of low floor transit vehicles

•	Passenger rail station access and capacity improve-
ments

Local Transportation Technology Program (10%)

This program would continue and improve the perfor-
mance of road, transit, pedestrian and bicyclist technology
applications, and would accommodate emerging vehicle
technologies such as electric and plug-in-hybrid vehicles.
Projects eligible could include:

•	Development, installation, operations, monitoring and
maintenance of local street and arterial transportation
management technology such as the “Smart Corridors
Program”, traffic signal interconnection, transit and
emergency vehicle priority, advanced traffic manage-
ment systems and advanced traveler information sys-
tems

•	Infrastructure for alternative vehicle fuels such as elec-
tric and plug-in-hybrid vehicle stations

•	New or emerging transportation technologies that pro-
vide congestion or pollution mitigation

•	Advance signal technology for walking and bicycling
Pedestrian and Bicyclist Access and Safety Program (5%)
This program would seek to improve the safety of bicy-
clists and pedestrians by reducing the conflicts with motor
vehicles and to reduce congestion in areas such as schools,
downtowns, transit hubs and other high activity locations.
It also would seek to improve bicyclist and pedestrian
safety on arterials and other locally-maintained roads and
to reduce occasional congestion that may occur with inci-
dents. Projects eligible could include:

•	Improved access and safety to schools, such as “Safe
Routes to Schools Programs”, “Greenways to Schools
Programs”, and other improvements (including cross-
walk, sidewalk, lighting and signal improvements) for
students, parents and teachers

•	Improved access and safety to activity centers (such as
crosswalk, sidewalk, lighting and signal improve-
ments)

•	Improved access and safety to transit hubs (such as
crosswalk, sidewalk, lighting and signal improve-
ments)

•	Improved bicycle and pedestrian safety on arterials,
other locally-maintained roads and multi-use trails par-
allel to congested highway corridors

D.	Governing Board and Organizational Structure

1.	Agency Responsible for Administering Proceeds of
Fee

The Agency, pursuant to California Government Code
Section 65089.20, shall place a majority vote ballot
measure before the voters to authorize a $10 per year
increase in the motor vehicle registration fee. If so
approved, the Agency will collect and administer the
Fee in accordance with the Plan.

The Agency and the Alameda County Transportation
Improvement Authority (Authority) have approved a
merger of the two agencies into a new Alameda Coun-
ty Transportation Commission (Alameda CTC), which
would have members from all the jurisdictions that

currently are represented on the Agency’s Board. The
Agency and the Authority expect to delegate all of their
powers, assets and liabilities to Alameda CTC. Upon
such delegation, the Fee would be collected and
administered by the Alameda CTC pursuant to the
Plan. All references to “Agency” include reference to
Alameda CTC.

2.	Contract with Department

The Agency shall contract with the Department of
Motor Vehicles to collect the fee imposed pursuant to
California Government Code section 65089.20 upon
the registration or renewal of registration of a motor
vehicle registered in the County, except those vehicles
that are expressly exempted under this code from the
payment of registration fees, pursuant to California
Vehicle Code section 9250.4, as approved by the voters
of Alameda County.

3.	Annual Budget Financial Projections

The Annual Budget, adopted by the Agency each year,
will project the expected Fee revenue, other anticipated
funds and planned expenditures for administration and
programs.

4.	Annual Report

The Agency shall draft an Annual Report, which shall
be made available to the public and will include the fol-
lowing:

•	Revenues collected

•	Expenditures by programs, including distribution
of funds within each program and in each planning
area of the County, and administrative costs

•	Accomplishments and benefits realized by the pro-
grams

•	Proposed projects for funding in each program
Before adopting the Annual Report, the Agency will
hold a public meeting and will address public com-
ments in the Annual Report.

5.	Use of Proceeds

The proceeds of the Fee governed by this ordinance
shall be used solely for the programs and purposes set
forth in the Plan and for the administration thereof. The
Agency will administer the proceeds of the Fee to carry
out the mission described in the Plan. An equitable
share of the funds will be distributed among the four
geographical sub-areas of the county over successive
five year cycles. Geographic equity is measured by a
formula, weighted fifty percent by population of the
sub-area (as published by the California Department of
Finance) and fifty percent of registered vehicles of the
sub-area (as determined by the California Department
of Motor Vehicles). The definition of the sub-areas may
change from time to time. A sponsor’s costs shall be
reimbursed for expenditures incurred on an approved
project. Pursuant to California Government Code Sec-
tion 65089.20, not more than five percent of the Fee
shall be used for administrative costs associated with
the programs and projects, including the amendment of
the Plan.

Pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 9250.4,

the initial setup and programming costs identified by
the Department of Motor Vehicles (Department) to col-
lect the Fee upon registration or renewal of registration
of a motor vehicle shall be paid by the Agency from the
Fee. Any direct contract payment with the Department
by the Agency shall be repaid, with no restriction on
the funds, to the Agency as part of the initial revenue
available for distribution. The costs deducted pursuant
to this paragraph shall not be counted against the five
percent administrative cost limit specified in California
Government Code Section 65089.20(d).

The costs of placing the Measure authorizing imposi-
tion of the Fee on the ballot, including payments to the
County Registrar of Voters and payments for the print-
ing of the portions of the ballot pamphlet relating to the
Fee, advanced by the Agency, shall be paid from the
proceeds of this Fee, and shall not be counted towards
the five percent limit on administrative costs. The costs
of preparing the Plan, advanced by the Agency, shall be
paid from the proceeds of the Fee subject to the five
percent limit on administrative costs. At the discretion
of the Agency, these costs may be amortized over a
period of years.

The proceeds of the Fee shall be spent only inside the
limits of Alameda County. None of the proceeds, out-
side of the costs incurred by the Department of Motor
Vehicles to collect the fee, shall be taken by the State.

6.	Duration of Fee

The Fee, if so approved, would be imposed annually
unless repealed.

7.	Severability

If any provision of this Plan or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
remainder of this Plan and the application thereof to
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected. If
any proposed expenditure based on this Plan is held
invalid, those funds shall be redistributed to other
expenditures in accordance with the Expenditure Plan.

8.	Amendments to the Plan

It is expected that the Plan will be amended from time
to time. Amendment to the Plan shall be approved by a
two-thirds vote of the Agency Board. All jurisdictions
within the County with representatives on Agency will
be given a minimum of 45 days notice and opportunity
to comment on any proposed Plan amendment prior to
its adoption.

9.	Option to Bond

The Agency shall be authorized to issue bonds for the
purposes of implementing the Plan. The bonds will be
paid with the proceeds of the Fee. The costs associated
with bonding will be borne only by programs in the
Plan utilizing the bond proceeds. The costs and risks
associated with bonding will be presented in the
Agency’s Annual Budget and will be subject to public
comment before approving a bond sale.

10.	Statute of Limitations

Any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the
Agency, or against any officer of the Agency, to prevent

or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, of any
Fee or any amount of Fee required to be collected must
be brought within 120 days of the approval of the
imposition of the Fee by the voters of Alameda County.

11.	Effective Date

The Measure shall take effect at the close of the polls
on the day of election at which the Fee is adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on the Measure. <summaryend>