AGENDA:	July	27,	2010

DEPT.:

CATEGORY:	New	Business

City Manager

7.1

TITLE:

Utility Users Tax Ordinance
Modernization

RECOMMENDATION

Adopt A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW,
SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS, AT THE NOVEMBER 2,2010 GENERAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION, AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 29 OF THE MOUNTAIN VIEW
CITY CODE, REGARDING THE UTILITY USERS TAX, to be read in title only, further
reading waived (Attachment 1 to the staff report).

FISCAL IMPACT

If the Telecommunications Users Tax (TUT) component of the Utility Users Tax (UUT)
Ordinance is not updated, annual General Operating Fund revenue from the TUT of
approximately $1.9 million is at risk because the ordinance does not reflect new and changing
telecommunications technologies. The cost to the City for placing a measure on the
November 2010 ballot is $62,000 and was included in the Fiscal Year 2010-11 Adopted Budget.

BACKGROUND AND ANALYSIS

City of Mountain View residents and businesses have paid a UUT since 1970 on gas, electric-
ity and telecommunications services. Telecommunications technologies have changed
dramatically since 1970 and staff recommends updating the UUT Ordinance, primarily the
TUT component, to reflect current telecommunications technology, changes in Federal law
and to strengthen the ordinance's enforceability. Approximately 150 cities in California have
a TUT to help fund their essential local services, and more than one-third of these cities have
"modernized" their ordinances by voter approval in the past few years. In Mountain View,
the TUT is a 3 percent tax levied on intrastate residential and commercial telecommunica-
tions, including wireless. In Fiscal Year 2008-09, the TUT represented $1.9 million in General
Operating Fund revenues, helping to maintain essential City services such as fire protection;
rapid emergency response and crime prevention; library hours and services; gang prevention
programs; and maintenance of city parks, playgrounds and athletic fields. Voter approval is
necessary to modernize the TUT.

The proposed measure for the November 2,2010 ballot is not a new tax and the current tax
rate would not change. The updates to the ordinance, as shown in ordinance Alternatives A,
B and C (Attachments 2,3 and 4, respectively), define telecommunication services in order to

better define what services are subject to the tax and ensure that all taxpayers are treated
equally regardless of the technology used for telecommunications. Internet access and
e-mails are not currently taxed and will not be taxed under this measure. Video program-
ming services and digital downloads, such as downloads of books, music, ringtones, games or
similar digital products, are also not currently taxed and will not be taxed under this measure.

Staff presented information regarding the TUT at a City Council Study Session on April 27,
2010 (unapproved minutes provided as Attachment 5). Staff recommends that the moderni-
zation of the ordinance include the collection of the TUT on interstate and international calls,
similar to more than 80 percent of other cities' modernizations. With the prevalence of flat
rate, long distance calling plans using traditional telephone, mobile or digital Voice over
Internet Protocol (VoIP) services, the distinction and cost to the consumer between local and
long distance calls is lessening. Therefore, depending on a customer's current long distance
calling plan, the proposed ordinance may have no impact or may result in a very slight tax
increase. For example, a customer who pays Twenty-Two Dollars ($22) for a long distance
plan and spends 75 percent of the long distance minutes on intrastate calls, may pay approxi-
mately $0.50 in TUT (depending on the intrastate calls), which may rise to $0.66 if all long
distance calls are subject to the tax. If a customer utilizes their cell phone for all of their long
distance calls, there may be no increase to their bill. Residents and businesses will need to
review the specifics of their own billing plans or ask their service provider to make this
estimate.

Two additional points are important to note regarding the "modernized" definition of tele-
communications. First, staff recommends the TUT capture VoIP technologies. This type of
telecommunications is becoming increasingly prevalent for both residential and commercial
customers. If the ordinance does not include this technology, staff would expect the tax base
to decline. From a taxation standpoint, digital voice data is indistinguishable from other
digital data being transmitted over communications lines. Therefore, the tax will apply to all
data being transmitted. However, for customers that subscribe to a digital voice/VoIP service
that is a separately billed service, or is one of several bundled services identified by the
service provider (such as is the case for many residential digital voice/VoIP service plans that
bundle video, Internet and voice together), the tax would only apply to the voice portion of
the service if separate accounting data for those services is available. Staff has confirmed with
one of the major service providers of bundled services that they allocate the cost of the voice
service and only apply the TUT to this portion.

The second point relates to private telecommunications services. Many businesses utilize
exclusive private telecommunications lines/networks that they either own or lease.
Historically, private telecommunications services have been point-to-point connections
whereby communication could flow only between those two points. Currently, advanced
technology makes the distinction ambiguous between a truly private telecommunication
network and one that is not. It is anticipated that this distinction will grow more ambiguous
with future technology advances. Companies may lease exclusive service for speed, capacity,

AGENDA: July 27,2010
PAGE:	3

privacy and reliability, but service providers now have technological capability to guarantee
speed, capacity, privacy and reliability without the data always being transmitted on an
exclusive point-to-point line. Private telecommunication services were previously exempt
from taxation under the Federal Excise Tax (FET). However, under the recent changes to the
FET, private telecommunications may now be taxable under local ordinance control.

Staff has verified that most modernizations State-wide do not distinguish between voice and
data telecommunications and also include private telecommunications. The language in the
recommended ordinance (Attachment 2) is consistent with the language in a majority of other
cities' modernized ordinances. However, ordinance Alternatives B and C, addressed later in
this report, have been included should the Council wish to consider other options.

In addition to the updates specifically pertaining to the TUT, the proposed ordinance also
updates the administrative provisions of Article III, the Utility Users Tax. As such, only one
set of administrative rules, covering collection, records, delinquent payments, exemptions,
failure to pay, assessments and appeals, collections, refunds and audits, will apply to all
components of the Utility Users Tax, including Telecommunications, Electricity, and Gas.
Attachment 6 is the TUT and administrative sections of the current ordinance that are being
revised.

Outreach Efforts

Staff engaged a cross section of businesses in Mountain View, including dialogue with the
Chamber of Commerce as well as telecommunications technology experts, to understand how
modernization of the TUT might potentially impact businesses. Staff also researched a
number of residential customer bills volunteered to the City. The City's ability to gather
detailed TUT data, short of conducting a thorough audit of the telecommunications service
providers, is limited because the City does not have access to customers' bills and the service
providers remit the tax to the City in a lump sum without details regarding how it was
calculated or collected. Attachment 7 shows the estimated impacts of the TUT modernization
based on available information from some residential bills and information from businesses.

Statistics Regarding Other Cities' Modernizations

In California, approximately 150 cities (including 4 counties) have TUTs. In recent years,
approximately 40 percent of these cities/counties have modernized their ordinances by voter
approval. Approximately 65 percent of TUTs across the State include interstate and interna-
tional calls, in addition to intrastate calls. Of the ordinances that have been modernized, only
a few do not include interstate and international calls. Mountain View's TUT rate of 3 percent
is in the 90th percentile of the lowest rates across the State; the State-wide average rate is
5.5 percent.

AGENDA: July 27, 2010
PAGE:	4

In Santa Clara County, seven cities have TUTs (Mountain View, Los Altos, Palo Alto,
Sunnyvale, Cupertino, Gilroy and San Jose). Los Altos, Cupertino, Gilroy and San Jose have
recently modernized their ordinances by voter approval, and all four include interstate and
international calls. The average rate in the County is 3.6 percent, with a range from 2 percent
to 5 percent.

One strategy for modernizations in the State has been to decrease the tax rate due to the
anticipation that new technologies would be taxed that previously were not taxed. Approxi-
mately 40 percent of the modernizations have decreased their rate. However, with the
exception of two cities, no cities with a rate of 4 percent or lower have reduced their rate. The
two exceptions are Los Altos and Benicia, with rate decreases from 3.5 percent to 3.2 percent
and 4 percent to 3.5 percent, respectively. Due to Mountain View's already low tax rate, staff
does not recommend a rate decrease.

ALTERNATIVES

1. Tax Cap System: Attachment 3 is an alternative ordinance, titled "Alternative B," that is
identical to staff's recommended Alternative A ordinance, except that a telecommunica-
tions service users tax liability, if it exceeds a certain threshold or if an increase due to
the modernization exceeds a certain amount, is capped per year for a three-year period.

The recommended cap system, if the Council were to select this alternative, would be
available to any service user who paid at least $30,000 in telecommunication users tax in
the 2010 calendar year or who paid an increase of at least $30,000 in tax above the
amount paid in the 2010 calendar year. For qualifying service users, they could apply
for and receive a refund of the difference between their 2010 TUT amount and their
2011 amount. Each subsequent year, the threshold requirement will increase by

2.0	percent and the calculated annual TUT of qualified applicants will increase by

2.0	percent until the expiration date. Service suppliers would still collect the total
amount of TUT and, if a service user makes a claim for a refund, the City would refund
any excess TUT remitted over the applicable cap. This system would expire three years
from the date of initial implementation. If the Council adopts a TUT cap as part of the
ordinance modernization, further guidelines and procedures will be developed under
the authority of Section 29.15.9, Additional powers and duties of the collector.

Staff is aware of approximately eight cities in California that cap TUT tax liability. These
caps range from $1,500 per year to $350,000 per year. San Jose's modernization estab-
lishes a cap system, similar to the system described above, whereby a threshold level of
$50,000 is established and a business with tax liability that exceeds that threshold will be
capped at their baseline year’s amount, plus a 2 percent inflationary factor. This type of
system ensures that a cap does not result in a significantly lower tax amount than a
business was previously paying. San Jose's cap system expires after three years. As

AGENDA: July 27,2010
PAGE:	5

stated above, this type of cap system is staff's recommendation if the Council is
interested in a cap. Emeryville's cap is set at $75,000 per year and does not expire.

A cap system is a tool that would create a level of certainty for large telecommunication
user's tax liability from year to year. On the other hand, a cap system, whether perma-
nent or temporary, may be viewed as creating a special exception to treating all
taxpayers equitably.

2.	Exclusion of private telecommunications services: Attachment 4 is an alternative
ordinance, titled "Alternative C," that is identical to staff's recommended Alternative A
ordinance, except that "private telecommunications services" are excluded from the tax.
Cupertino's modernized ordinance excludes private telecommunications services. Other
cities also provide for this exclusion, but the majority do not. As explained earlier in this
report, the distinction between private and nonprivate telecommunications services is
likely to grow more and more ambiguous in the future due to technology advances,
presenting challenges to service providers in determining where to apply the tax. While
this exclusion would be beneficial to those service users that can afford private
telecommunications, it could also be viewed as another exception to treating all
taxpayers equitably.

3.	Defer modernization to a future election: Another alternative available to the Council is
to delay modernization for two years. Proposition 218 requires that tax measure
elections occur at the time of Councilmember elections, unless classified as an emergency
measure. The next opportunity for Mountain View would be November 2012. Staff
does not recommend deferring the measure because the existing ordinance and

$1.9 million in annual General Operating Fund revenues would continue to remain at
risk of legal challenge and gradual decline of revenues. Additionally, as more cities
modernize, fewer and fewer are left for potential challenge. Another consideration
regarding this alternative is that a delay in modernization also delays the equitable
application of the tax across all technologies.

CONCLUSION

Staff recommends that the City Council adopt the attached resolution along with ordinance
Alternative A (Attachment 2), placing the Utility Users Tax Ordinance modernization on the
ballot for the November 2,2010 General Municipal Election. If the Council prefers ordinance
Alternatives B or C, or other modifications discussed at the Council meeting, then the
ordinance alternative that is approved will be attached to the resolution.

PUBLIC NOTICING—Agenda posting.

Prepared by:

Kevin S. Woodhouse
Assistant to the City Manager

Reviewed by:

Finance and Administrative
Services Director

sr7

KW/PJK/7/CAM

610-07-27-10M-EA

Approved by:

City Attorney

(A

Kevin C. Duggan
City Manager

Attachments: 1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

Resolution

Recommended Ordinance—Alternative A
Ordinance Alternative B
Ordinance Alternative C
Unapproved Minutes

Current Ordinance Sections Proposed for Revision
TUT Modernization Impact Estimates

ATTACHMENT 1

CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW
RESOLUTION NO.
SERIES 2010

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW,
SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS, AT THE
NOVEMBER 2,2010 GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION,

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 29 OF THE MOUNTAIN VIEW CITY
CODE, REGARDING THE UTILITY USERS TAX

WHEREAS, since 1970, the residents of the City of Mountain View have paid a
utility user tax on telephone communications services; and

WHEREAS, telephone communication advances over the past two decades mean
that the City must update its utility users tax to match today's technology, including
definitions for new telecommunications technologies; and

WHEREAS, the changes are technical and do not change the rate; and

WHEREAS, updating the existing, outdated utility users tax on telecommunica-
tions services, with no change to existing rates or exemptions, will ensure that taxpayers
are treated the same regardless of the type of technology used; and

WHEREAS, the measure will safeguard local revenues already being received for
local needs, and this money cannot be taken away by the State; and

WHEREAS, the residents of Mountain View choose to live here because the City
offers a higher level of service, programs and quality of life than neighboring cities; and

WHEREAS, the telecommunications users tax component of the utility users tax is
an important revenue source, and preserving that revenue will ensure that the City can
preserve essential City services, including: fire protection; rapid emergency response
and crime prevention; library hours and services; gang prevention programs; mainte-
nance of City parks, playgrounds and athletic fields; and provide the programs that
residents expect and deserve; and

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election on Tuesday, November 2,2010, has been
called by Resolution No. 17513, adopted on June 22,2010;

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Mountain View, California,
does resolve, declare, determine and order as follows:

Section 1. At the November 2,2010 General Municipal Election called by previous
action of this Council, there shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the City of
Mountain View an ordinance amending Chapter 29 of the Mountain View City Code to
update the utility users tax.

Section 2. The text of the ordinance is attached hereto as Exhibits A and B and
incorporated herein by reference. The sample ballot shall include the title of the
ordinance. The full text of the ordinance shall be posted on the web site of the City of
Mountain View, shall be available for review at the City Clerk's Office of the City of
Mountain View during normal business hours and, upon request, a copy will be mailed
at no cost.

Section 3. The procedures for voting for and against said question shall be those
established by Santa Clara County, and the question shall be printed in substantially the
following form:

Without increasing the tax rate residents and businesses
currently pay, shall the City of Mountain View adopt an
ordinance to update its Utility Users Tax, that would ensure
equal treatment of taxpayers regardless of telecommunica-
tions technology used and provide funds to preserve
essential services including: fire protection; rapid
emergency response and crime prevention; library hours
and services; gang prevention programs; and maintenance
of city parks, playgrounds and athletic fields; with
independent audits and all revenue staying in Mountain
View?

YES

□

NO

□

Section 4. This question requires the approval of a majority of those casting votes.

Section 5. The ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content as
required by law.

Section 6. That in all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

Section 7. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the
Acting City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional
notice of the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

Section 8. Consolidation with Gubernatorial General Election. Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 10403 of the California Elections Code, and in recognition of
Resolution 17513, adopted on June 22,2010, calling a General Municipal Election to be
held on Tuesday, November 2,2010, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa
Clara is hereby requested to consolidate the submission to the qualified voters of the
City of Mountain View an ordinance amending Chapter 29 of the Mountain View City
Code to update the utility users tax, and to consolidate the submission of the
amendment of the ordinance with any other elections which may be called for the same
date. The Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara is hereby requested to
consolidate the ordinance amending Chapter 29 of the Mountain View City Code, and
to order the County Registrar of Voters to: (1) prepare the City's election materials and
take all other necessary actions for the holding of the consolidated election; (2) set forth
on all sample ballots to be mailed to the qualified electors of the City of Mountain View
for said election, the title of the ordinance and the question as set forth above in
Section 3, the City Attorney's impartial analysis, arguments for and against the
measure, and rebuttal arguments (if any); and (3) provide vote-by-mail ballot to voters
for said election for use of the qualified electors of the City of Mountain View who are
entitled thereto, in the manner provided by law.

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara is hereby further
authorized and requested to canvass, or cause to be canvassed, as provided by law,
returns of said General Municipal Election and to certify such canvass of the votes for
the measure.

The City of Mountain View recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the
County by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County for such
costs.

Section 9. The Acting City Clerk shall file a certified copy of this resolution with
the Board of Supervisors and the Registrar of Voters of the County of Santa Clara, no
later than August 6,2010.

Section 10. Arguments in favor of or against the proposed measure shall be filed
with the Acting City Clerk by Monday, August 9,2010, at 5:00 p.m.

Section 11. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure,
not to exceed 500 words in length, pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9280,
which is to be filed with the County no later than Monday, August 9,2010.

Section 12. Rebuttals to arguments in favor of or against the proposed measure
shall be filed with the Acting City Clerk by Monday, August 16,2010, at 5:00 p.m.

Section 13. The Acting City Clerk shall, in accordance with the provisions of the
California Elections Code, publish a Notice of Election and synopsis of the measure one
time in a newspaper of general circulation within the City of Mountain View.

Section 14. That the Acting City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of
this Resolution entered into the book of original resolutions.

JLQ/2/RESO

010-07-27-10RA

ATTACHMENT 2
Alternative A

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW AMENDING
CHAPTER 29 OF THE MOUNTAIN VIEW CITY CODE
REGARDING THE UTILITY USERS TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Code Amendment. Division 1 of Article III of Chapter 29 of the
Mountain View City Code is hereby amended to read as set forth in Exhibit "A,"
attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.

Section 2. Code Amendment. Division 2 of Article III of Chapter 29 of the
Mountain View City Code is hereby amended to read as set forth in Exhibit "B,"
attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.

Section 3. Further Amendments. Divisions 1 and 2 of Article III of Chapter 29 of
the Mountain View City Code as amended by this ordinance may be repealed or
amended by the City Council without a vote of the people except as follows: as
required by Proposition 218, any amendment that increases the amount or rate of tax
beyond the levels authorized by this ordinance may not take effect unless approved by
a vote of the people. The City Council may impose the taxes authorized by this
ordinance in any amount or rate which does not exceed the rate approved by the voters
of the City.

Section 4. Repeal. Divisions 5,6,7,9 and 10 of Article IH of Chapter 29 of the
Mountain View City Code are hereby repealed.

Section 5. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions of this
Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The people of the City of
Mountain View hereby declare that they would have adopted each section, sentence,
clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions of this ordinance be declared invalid or
unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

Section 6. Majority Approval: Effective Date. This ordinance shall be effective
only if approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon and shall go into effect ten
(10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council and the duty of service providers
to collect the tax shall commence as provided in California Public Utilities Code
Section 799.

Section 7. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute this ordinance
where indicated below to give evidence of its adoption by the voters.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was adopted by the voters of the City
of Mountain View at the November 2,2010 election.

Ronit Bryant, Mayor

Attest:

City Clerk

LMD/8/ORD
016-07-27-1Oo-E-2 A

-2-

Exhibit A

AMENDED DIVISION 1 OF ARTICLE III OF CHAPTER 29

"DIVISION 1—GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 29.10. Title.

This article shall be known as the "Utility Users Tax Ordinance of the City of
Mountain View."

SEC. 29.11. Adoption; charter authority.

This article is adopted pursuant to the powers of the City of Mountain View as a
charter city as provided in Article II of the City Charter, and as authorized by Section 6
of Article XI of the Constitution of the State of California, and is adopted as a tax levy to
meet the usual current expenses of the city.

SEC. 29.12. Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions contained in this
section shall govern the construction of this article. The word "may" is always directory
and discretionary and not mandatory; the word "shall" is always mandatory and not
directory or discretionary.

"Ancillary telecommunications services" shall mean services that are associated
with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services
including, but not limited to. the following:

1.	Services that link two (2) or more participants of an audio or video conference
call, including the provision of a telephone number.

2.	Services that separately state information pertaining to individual calls on a
customer's billing statement.

3.	Services that provide telephone number information and/or address
information.

4.	Services offered in connection with one (1) or more telecommunications
services which offer advanced calling features that allow customers to identify callers or
to manage multiple calls and call connections.

5.	Services that enable customers to store, send or receive recorded messages.

"Billing address" shall mean the mailing address of a service user where a service
supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the service user.

"City" shall mean the City of Mountain View, California, melading either the
municipal corporation or all of the territory and jurisdiction thereof as presently
constituted and any and all of the same which shall later come into existence by any
manner or means whatsoever.

"Collector" or "director" shall mean the revenue officer finance and administrative
services director or his/her designee of the City of Mountain View.

"Direeter"-shail"meauthc director of finance of the City of Mountain View.

"Electrical corporation," "gas corporation" and "telephone corporation" shall have
the same meanings as defined provided in Sections 218,222 and 234, respectively, of the
Public Utilities Code of the State of California.

"Month" shall mean a calendar month.

"Person" shall mean any natural person, firm, any ah-domestic and foreign
corporations, associations, firm, trust, estate, association, syndicates, joint ventures, joint
stock company, limited liability company, partnerships of any every kind, clubs,
Massachusetts business or common law trust of any kind, society-soeiet-ies, cooperative,
receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court,
municipal district, municipal corporation (other than the city), or the manager, lessee,
and any officer, er-agent or employee of any of them thereof.

"Private telecommunication service" means any dedicated virtual or actual
telecommunications service that entitles a user to exclusive or priority use of
communications channels.

"Service address" means the street address of the service user's primary place of

use.

"Service supplier" shall mean any person required to collect a tax imposed under
the provisions of this article.

"Service user" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under the
provisions of this article.

"Telecommunication services" includes the transmission, conveyance, or routing of
voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or
among points, whether or not such information is transmitted through interconnected
service with the public switched network, whatever the technology used, whether such

transmission, conveyance or routing occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic, light wave, laser,
microwave, radio wave (including, but not limited to, cellular service, commercial
mobile service, personal communications service (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR1
and other types of personal wireless service—see 47 USCA Section 332(c) (7) (C) (i)—
regardless of radio spectrum used), switching facilities, satellite or any other technology
now existing or developed after the adoption of this section, and includes, without
limitation, fiber-optic, coaxial cable and wireless. The term "telecommunication
services" includes such transmission, conveyance or routing in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content for
purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such
services are referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified
by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes
video and/or data services that are functionally integrated with telecommunications
services.

"Telecommunication services" include, but are not limited to, the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or
billed: central office and custom calling features (including, but not limited to, call
waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling), local number
portability, text messaging, ancillary telecommunication services, prepaid and post-
paid telecommunications services (including, but not limited to. prepaid calling cards):
mobile telecommunications service; private telecommunication service: paging service:
800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission!: and value-added nonvoice data service. "Telecommunication service"
does not include: internet access services: video programming services: or digital
downloads, such as downloads of books, music, ringtones, games or similar digital
products.

SEC. 29.13. Exemptions.

Nothing contained in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon the city
or any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of California.

SEC. 29.14. Conflicts.

Nothing contained in this article is intended to conflict with applicable rules,
regulations and tariffs of any service supplier subject to the jurisdiction of the California
Public Utilities Commission. In the event of any conflict, the provisions of said rules,
regulations and tariffs shall control.

SEC. 29.15. Tax; effective date.

The taxes imposed by this article shall become operative as of October 1,1970.

A.	The taxes imposed by this article shall be collected insofar as practicable at
the same time as. and along with, the collection of charges made in accordance with the
regular billing practice of a service supplier.

B.	The duty to collect taxes from a service user shall commence with the
beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to that person which starts on or
after the operative date of this article and as provided by California Public Utilities
Code Section 799. If a person receives separate billing for different periods, the duty to
collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

SEC. 29.15.2. Records.

It shall be the duty of every person obligated to collect the tax imposed under this
article to preserve for three (3) years all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable to collect and remit to the
collector, which records the collector shall have the right to inspect or copy at all
reasonable times.

SEC. 29.15.3. Delinquent payment penalty.

A.	Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the collector on
or before the due dates provided in this article are delinquent.

B.	Penalties for delinquency in remittance of any tax collected or any deficiency
determination shall attach and be paid by the service supplier at the rate of fifteen
percent (15%) of the total tax imposed by this article.

C.	The collector shall have power to impose additional penalties upon a service
supplier for fraud or negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen percent
(15%) of the amount of the tax due.

D.	In addition to any other penalties imposed by this article, any person
required to collect and/or remit the tax imposed by this article who fails to collect the
tax or fails to remit the tax collected shall pay interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per
month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the
date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, no penalty or
interest shall apply if delinquencies result from natural disasters or other phenomena
beyond the control of the person charged with collecting and remitting the tax.

provided the person being delinquent notifies the collector as soon as normal
communications permit and collects and remits the tax promptly thereafter.

F.	Every penalty imposed and interest due under the provisions of this section
shall become a part of the tax required to be remitted.

SEC. 29.15.4. Failure to pay—Administrative remedy.

Whenever the collector determines that a service user has deliberately withheld
the amount of the tax owed by him or her from the amounts remitted to a service
supplier, or that a service user has failed to pay the amount of the tax for a period of
two or more billing periods, or whenever the collector deems it in the best interest of the
city, he or she may relieve the service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due
under this article from certain named service users for specified billing periods. The
collector shall notify the service user that he or she has assumed responsibility to collect
the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. The notice
shall be served on the service user by handing it to him or her personally or by deposit
of the notice in the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to
the service user at the address to which billing was made by the service supplier; or
should the service user have changed his or her address, to his or her last known
address. If a service user fails to remit the tax to the collector within fifteen (15) days
from the date of service of the notice upon him or her, which shall be the date of
mailing if service is not accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty-five percent
(25%) of the amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but in no event
shall the total penalty for nonpayment of the delinquent tax accounts be less than five
dollars ($5). The penalty shall thereupon become part of the tax required to be paid by
this article.

SEC. 29.15.5. Assessments and appeal.

The collector may make an assessment for taxes not paid or remitted as required
by this article. The collector shall mail a notice of such assessment, which shall state the
taxes, penalties and interest imposed and the time and place where the assessment may
be contested, to the service supplier and/or the service user at least ten (10) days prior
to the date of the hearing and shall post such notice for at least five (5) continuous days
prior to the hearing. Any interested party having any objections may appear and be
heard by the collector provided his or her objection is filed in writing with the collector
prior to the time of the hearing. At the time fixed for considering such assessment, the
collector shall hear the same, together with any objections filed as provided in this
subsection, and thereupon may confirm or modify such assessment. The decision of the
collector shall be final as to the city but shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.5.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this article
shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any such tax collected
from a service user which has not been remitted to the collector shall be deemed a debt
owed to the city by the service supplier. Any person owing money to the city under the
provisions of this article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city for
the recovery of such amount and to any other remedy available at law or in equity and
resort to any remedy shall not be foreclosed to any other remedy until the tax is
collected and paid as required by this article.

SEC. 29.15.7. Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received bv the collector under this
article, it may be refunded as provided in this section.

B.	A service supplier may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected
and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally
collected or received, when it is established in a manner prescribed by the collector that
the service user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided,
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax
so collected has either been refunded to the service user or credited to charges
subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and remit.

C.	No refund shall be paid under this section unless the claimant establishes his
or her right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

D.	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant has submitted a claim pursuant to Section 1.35 of this code.

SEC. 29.15.8. Effect of commingling nontaxable items with taxable items.

If one or more nontaxable items are bundled or billed together with one or more
taxable items (as provided for by this article) under a single charge on a customer's bill,
the entire single charge shall be taxed unless a service supplier reasonably identifies to
the collector the nontaxable component of the single charge based upon one or more of
the following methodologies, as selected by the collector: (i) the average industry
charges for nontaxable items included in the single charge: (ii) the amount of the single
charge less the average industry charges for taxable items included in the single charge;
or (iii) the service supplier's books and records kept in the regular course of business,
which must be consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.

A.	The collector shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to
enforce this article.

B.	The collector shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations consistent
with provisions of this article to carry out and enforce the obligations to pay, collect and
remit the tax imposed by this article. A copy of such rules and regulations shall be on
file in the collector's office.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the collector may make administrative
agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary the strict requirements of this article
and thereby: (i) conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so
long as said agreements result in collection of the tax in conformance with the general
purpose and scope of this article; or (ii) to avoid a hardship where the administrative
costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such
agreement shall be on file in the collector's office and are voidable by the collector or the
city at any time."

SEC. 29.15.10. Audit.

The city shall annually audit the taxes remitted in accordance with this division,
and properly expending the taxes according to applicable law. The audit may employ
reasonable, cost-effective steps to ensure compliance, including the use of sampling. No
audit shall be conducted as to a service supplier where the cost of the audit is expected
to exceed the tax revenues to be received."

LD/8/ORD

016-07-27-10o-E-2A

AMENDED DIVISION 2 OF ARTICLE III OF CHAPTER 29

Exhibit 5

"DIVISION 2.—TELECOMMUNICATIONS USERS TAX.

SEC. 29.16. Tax imposed.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every person, other than a telephone
corporation, who uses telecommunication services in the city, including intrastate,
interstate and international telecommunication services, to the extent permitted by
federal and state law. Interstate calls shall be deemed to include calls to the District of
Columbia. The telecommunications users tax is intended to, and does, apply to all
charges within the city's tax jurisdiction, such as charges billed to a telecommunications
account having a situs in the city as permitted by the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act of 2000.4 USCA 116 et seq. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of three percent (3%). The tax shall apply to all charges made for such
telecommunication services. There is a rebuttable presumption that telecommunication
services billed to a billing or service address in the city are used, in whole or in part,
within the city, and that such services are subject to taxation under this chapter. There
is also a rebuttable presumption that telecommunication services sold within the city
that are not billed to a billing address or provided to a primary physical location (such
as prepaid calling card services) are used, in whole or in part, within the city and are
therefore subject to taxation under this chapter.

B.	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by
the service user in exchange for the telecommunication services.

C.	The collector may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers administrative rulings identifying those
telecommunication services that are subject to the tax of Subsection A of this section or
otherwise regarding the implementation of the tax. Such administrative rulings shall be
consistent with legal nexus and laws pertaining to telecommunications services and
shall not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology or increase an existing
tax, except as allowed by California Government Code Section 53750(h) (2) and (3) or
other law. The collector may consider state-wide interpretive rules and guidelines
promulgated by any government agency or association of government agencies as a
factor in determining the intent of voters adopting this section. To the extent that the
collector determines that the tax imposed under this section shall not be collected in full
for any period of time, such an administrative ruling falls within the collector's
discretion to settle disputes. The collector's exercise of prosecutorial forbearance under
this chapter does not constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of
Government Code Section 53750(h), and the city does not waive or abrogate its ability
to impose the telecommunications users tax in full as a result of issuing such

administrative rulings and may suspend such rulings and recommence collection of the
tax without additional voter approval.

D.	The following shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section:

__________1.	Charges	paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones available to

the public with respect to local telephone service, or with respect to long distance
telephone service if the charge for such long distance telephone service is less than
twenty-five (25) cents; except that where such coin-operated telephone service is
furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any
fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be subject to the tax.

__________2.	Except	with respect to local telephone service, on any charges for

services used in the collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker service
furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press or radio
broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news through the public press, or a news ticker
service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press, or by means
of radio broadcasting, if the charge for such service is billed in writing to such person.

__________3.	Charges	for services furnished to an international organization

designated under the International Organizations Immunities Act and defined in
22 USCA 288 or to the American National Red Cross.

___________4.	Charges for any long distance telephone service which originates within

a combat zone, as defined in Section 112 of the Internal Revenue Code, from a member
of the Armed Forces of the United States performing service in such combat zone, as
determined under such section, provided a certificate setting forth such facts as the
Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may by regulations prescribe is furnished to the person
receiving such payment.

*

___________5.	Charges for any long distance telephone service to the extent that the

amount so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company, or
radio broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its business as such.

___________6.	Amounts paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to such

organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term "nonprofit hospital" means a
hospital referred to in Internal Revenue Code Section 170(b)(l)(A)(iii) which is exempt
from income tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(a).

___________7.	Charges for services or facilities furnished to the government of any

state, or any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia.

___________8.	Charges paid by a nonprofit educational organization for services or

facilities furnished to such organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term

"nonprofit educational organization" means an educational organization described in
Internal Revenue Code Section 170(b)(l)(A)(ii) which is exempt from income tax under
Internal Revenue Code Section 501 (a). The term also includes a school operated as an
activity of an organization described in Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) which
is exempt from income tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(a). if such school
normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly
enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where its educational
activities are regularly carried on.

__________9.	Charges	for	maritime	mobile services as defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47

of the Code of Federal Regulations as such section existed on Tanuarv 1.1970.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telecommunication services
subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the collector that the
service user has previously paid the same tax in another American jurisdiction on such
telecommunication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the
extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other jurisdiction; provided,
however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the city under this
section. This ordinance shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition and
collection of the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by California and federal
law, and as that law may change from time to time.

F.	The tax on telecommunication services imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the service supplier or its billing agent. Each service
supplier shall, on or before the twentieth (20) of each month, make a return to the
collector, on forms provided, and in the manner prescribed, by the collector, stating the
amount of taxes billed by the service supplier during the preceding month. At the time
the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the collector.
The collector is authorized to properly determine if the tax imposed is levied and
collected in accordance with this chapter. Returns and remittances are due immediately
upon cessation of business for any reason.

G.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a
tax under this subchapter, "substantial nexus" and "minimum contacts" shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility
users tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as that law may
change from time to time. Any telecommunication service (including VoIP) used by a
person with a service address in the city, which service is capable of making a call to
another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable
presumption that "substantial nexus/minimum contacts" exists for purposes of
imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this chapter. A
service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the city to be obligated to
collect and remit the tax imposed by this chapter if it does any of the following:
maintains or has within the city, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of

business of any nature: solicits business in the city by employees, independent
contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the city by
means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the city or
distributed from a location within the city; or advertises in newspapers or other
periodicals printed and published within the city or through materials distributed in the
city by means other than the United States mail.

SEC. 29.17. Effect of state and federal authorization.

To the extent that the city's authorization to impose or collect any tax imposed
under this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law,
no amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax to
those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the city's
authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this chapter."

LD/8/ORD

016-07-27-10o-E-2A

ATTACHMENT 3
Alternative B

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW AMENDING
CHAPTER 29 OF THE MOUNTAIN VIEW CITY CODE
REGARDING THE UTILITY USERS TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Code Amendment. Division 1 of Article III of Chapter 29 of the
Mountain View City Code is hereby amended to read as set forth in Exhibit "A,"
attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.

Section 2. Code Amendment. Division 2 of Article III of Chapter 29 of the
Mountain View City Code is hereby amended to read as set forth in Exhibit "B,"
attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.

Section 3. Further Amendments. Divisions 1 and 2 of Article III of Chapter 29 of
the Mountain View City Code as amended by this ordinance may be repealed or
amended by the City Council without a vote of the people except as follows: as
required by Proposition 218, any amendment that increases the amount or rate of tax
beyond the levels authorized by this ordinance may not take effect unless approved by
a vote of the people. The City Council may impose the taxes authorized by this
ordinance in any amount or rate which does not exceed the rate approved by the voters
of the City.

Section 4. Repeal. Divisions 5,6,7,9 and 10 of Article III of Chapter 29 of the
Mountain View City Code are hereby repealed.

Section 5. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions of this
Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The people of the City of
Mountain View hereby declare that they would have adopted each section, sentence,
clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions of this ordinance be declared invalid or
unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

Section 6. Majority Approval: Effective Date. This ordinance shall be effective
only if approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon and shall go into effect ten
(10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council and the duty of service providers
to collect the tax shall commence as provided in California Public Utilities Code
Section 799.

Section 7. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute this ordinance
where indicated below to give evidence of its adoption by the voters.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was adopted by the voters of the City
of Mountain View at the November 2,2010 election.

Ronit Bryant, Mayor

Attest:

City Clerk

LMD/8/ORD

016-07-27-10o-EA

Exhibit A

AMENDED DIVISION 1 OF ARTICLE III OF CHAPTER 29

"DIVISION 1—GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 29.10. Title.

This article shall be known as the "Utility Users Tax Ordinance of the City of
Mountain View."

SEC. 29.11. Adoption; charter authority.

This article is adopted pursuant to the powers of the City of Mountain View as a
charter city as provided in Article II of the City Charter, and as authorized by Section 6
of Article XI of the Constitution of the State of California, and is adopted as a tax levy to
meet the usual current expenses of the city.

SEC. 29.12. Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions contained in this
section shall govern the construction of this article. The word "may" is always directory
and discretionary and not mandatory; the word "shall" is always mandatory and not
directory or discretionary.

"Ancillary telecommunications services" shall mean services that are associated
with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services
including, but not limited to. the following:

1.	Services that link two (2) or more participants of an audio or video conference
call, including the provision of a telephone number.

2.	Services that separately state information pertaining to individual calls on a
customer's billing statement.

3.	Services that provide telephone number information and/or address
information.

4.	Services offered in connection with one (1) or more telecommunications
services which offer advanced calling features that allow customers to identify callers or
to manage multiple calls and call connections.

5.	Services that enable customers to store, send or receive recorded messages.

"Billing address" shall mean the mailing address of a service user where a service
supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the service user.

"City" shall mean the City of Mountain View, California, including cither the
municipal corporation or all of the territory and jurisdiction thereof as presently
constituted and any and all of the same which shall later come into existence by any
manner or means whatsoever.

"Collector" or "director" shall mean the revenue officer finance and administrative
services director or his/her designee of the City of Mountain View.

"Director" shall mean the director of finance of the City of Mountain View.

"Electrical corporation," "gas corporation" and "telephone corporation" shall have
the same meanings as defined provided in Sections 218,222 and 234, respectively, of the
Public Utilities Code of the State of California.

"Month" shall mean a calendar month.

"Person" shall mean any natural person, firm, any all-domestic and foreign
corporations, associations, firm, trust, estate, association, syndicates, joint ventures, joint
stock company, limited liability company, partnerships of any every kind, clubs,
Massachusetts business or common law trust of any kind, society societies, cooperative,
receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court,
municipal district, municipal corporation (other than the city), or the manager, lessee,
and any officer, er-agent or employee of any of them thereof.

"Private telecommunication service" means any dedicated virtual or actual
telecommunications service that entitles a user to exclusive or priority use of
communications channels.

"Service address" means the street address of the service user's primary place of

use.

"Service supplier" shall mean any person required to collect a tax imposed under
the provisions of this article.

"Service user" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under the
provisions of this article.

"Telecommunication services" includes the transmission, conveyance, or routing of
voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or
among points, whether or not such information is transmitted through interconnected
service with the public switched network, whatever the technology used, whether such

transmission, conveyance or routing occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic, light wave, laser,
microwave, radio wave (including, but not limited to. cellular service, commercial
mobile service, personal communications service (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR)
and other types of personal wireless service—see 47 USCA Section 332(c) (7) (C) (!)—
regardless of radio spectrum used), switching facilities, satellite or any other technology
now existing or developed after the adoption of this section, and includes, without
limitation, fiber-optic, coaxial cable and wireless. The term "telecommunication
services" includes such transmission, conveyance or routing in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content for
purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such
services are referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified
by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes
video and/or data services that are functionally integrated with telecommunications
services.

"Telecommunication services" include, but are not limited to. the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or
billed: central office and custom calling features (including, but not limited to. call
waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling), local number
portability, text messaging, ancillary telecommunication services, prepaid and post-
paid telecommunications services (including, but not limited to. prepaid calling cards):
mobile telecommunications service: private telecommunication service; paging service:
800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission!: and value-added nonvoice data service. "Telecommunication service"
does not include: internet access services: video programming services: or digital
downloads, such as downloads of books, music, ringtones, games or similar digital
products.

SEC. 29.13. Exemptions.

Nothing contained in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon the city
or any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of California.

SEC. 29.14. Conflicts.

Nothing contained in this article is intended to conflict with applicable rules,
regulations and tariffs of any service supplier subject to the jurisdiction of the California
Public Utilities Commission. In the event of any conflict, the provisions of said rules,
regulations and tariffs shall control.

SEC. 29.15. Tax; effective date.

The taxes imposed by this article shall become operative as of October 1,1970.

A.	The taxes imposed by this article shall be collected insofar as practicable at
the same time as. and along with, the collection of charges made in accordance with the
regular billing practice of a service supplier.

B.	The duty to collect taxes from a service user shall commence with the
beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to that person which starts on or
after the operative date of this article and as provided by California Public Utilities
Code Section 799. If a person receives separate billing for different periods, the duty to
collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

SEC. 29.15.2. Records.

It shall be the duty of every person obligated to collect the tax imposed under this
article to preserve for three (3) years all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable to collect and remit to the
collector, which records the collector shall have the right to inspect or copy at all
reasonable times.

SEC. 29.15.3. Delinquent payment penalty.

A.	Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the collector on
or before the due dates provided in this article are delinquent.

B.	Penalties for delinquency in remittance of any tax collected or any deficiency
determination shall attach and be paid by the service supplier at the rate of fifteen
percent (15%) of the total tax imposed by this article.

C.	The collector shall have power to impose additional penalties upon a service
supplier for fraud or negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen percent
(15%) of the amount of the tax due.

D.	In addition to any other penalties imposed by this article, any person
required to collect and/or remit the tax imposed by this article who fails to collect the
tax or fails to remit the tax collected shall pay interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per
month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the
date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, no penalty or
interest shall apply if delinquencies result from natural disasters or other phenomena
beyond the control of the person charged with collecting and remitting the tax.

provided the person being delinquent notifies the collector as soon as normal
communications permit and collects and remits the tax promptly thereafter.

F.	Every penalty imposed and interest due under the provisions of this section
shall become a part of the tax required to be remitted.

SEC. 29.15.4. Failure to pay—Administrative remedy.

Whenever the collector determines that a service user has deliberately withheld
the amount of the tax owed by him or her from the amounts remitted to a service
supplier, or that a service user has failed to pay the amount of the tax for a period of
two or more billing periods, or whenever the collector deems it in the best interest of the
city, he or she may relieve the service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due
under this article from certain named service users for specified billing periods. The
collector shall notify the service user that he or she has assumed responsibility to collect
the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. The notice
shall be served on the service user by handing it to him or her personally or by deposit
of the notice in the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to
the service user at the address to which billing was made by the service supplier; or
should the service user have changed his or her address, to his or her last known
address. If a service user fails to remit the tax to the collector within fifteen (15) days
from the date of service of the notice upon him or her, which shall be the date of
mailing if service is not accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty-five percent
(25%) of the amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but in no event
shall the total penalty for nonpayment of the delinquent tax accounts be less than five
dollars ($5). Tire penalty shall thereupon become part of the tax required to be paid by
this article.

SEC. 29.15.5. Assessments and appeal.

The collector may make an assessment for taxes not paid or remitted as required
by this article. The collector shall mail a notice of such assessment, which shall state the
taxes, penalties and interest imposed and the time and place where the assessment may
be contested, to the service supplier and/or the service user at least ten (10) days prior
to the date of the hearing and shall post such notice for at least five (5) continuous days
prior to the hearing. Any interested party having any objections may appear and be
heard by the collector provided his or her objection is filed in writing with the collector
prior to the time of the hearing. At the time fixed for considering such assessment, the
collector shall hear the same, together with any objections filed as provided in this
subsection, and thereupon may confirm or modify such assessment. The decision of the
collector shall be final as to the city but shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.5.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this article
shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any such tax collected
from a service user which has not been remitted to the collector shall be deemed a debt
owed to the city by the service supplier. Any person owing money to the city under the
provisions of this article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city for
the recovery of such amount and to any other remedy available at law or in equity and
resort to any remedy shall not be foreclosed to any other remedy until the tax is
collected and paid as required by this article.

SEC. 29.15.7. Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the collector under this
article, it may be refunded as provided in this section.

B.	A service supplier may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected
and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally
collected or received, when it is established in a manner prescribed by the collector that
the service user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided,
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax
so collected has either been refunded to the service user or credited to charges
subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and remit.

C.	No refund shall be paid under this section unless the claimant establishes his
or her right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

D.	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant has submitted a claim pursuant to Section 1.35 of this code.

SEC. 29.15.8. Effect of commingling nontaxable items with taxable items.

If one or more nontaxable items are bundled or billed together with one or more
taxable items (as provided for by this article) under a single charge on a customer's bill,
the entire single charge shall be taxed unless a service supplier reasonably identifies to
the collector the nontaxable component of the single charge based upon one or more of
the following methodologies, as selected by the collector: (i) the average industry
charges for nontaxable items included in the single charge; (ii) the amount of the single
charge less the average industry charges for taxable items included in the single charge;
or (iii) the service supplier's books and records kept in the regular course of business,
which must be consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.

SEC. 29.15.9. Additional powers and duties of the collector.

_____A. The collector shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to

enforce this article.

B.	The collector shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations consistent
with provisions of this article to carry out and enforce the obligations to pay, collect and
remit the tax imposed by this article. A copy of such rules and regulations shall be on
file in the collector's office.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the collector may make administrative
agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary the strict requirements of this article
and thereby: (i) conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so
long as said agreements result in collection of the tax in conformance with the general
purpose and scope of this article; or (ii) to avoid a hardship where the administrative
costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such
agreement shall be on file in the collector's office and are voidable by the collector or the
city at any time."

SEC. 29.15.10. Audit.

The city shall annually audit the taxes remitted in accordance with this division,
and properly expending the taxes according to applicable law. The audit may employ
reasonable, cost-effective steps to ensure compliance, including the use of sampling. No
audit shall be conducted as to a service supplier where the cost of the audit is expected
to exceed the tax revenues to be received."

LD/8/ORD

016-07-27-10o-EA

AMENDED DIVISION 2 OF ARTICLE III OF CHAPTER 29

Exhibit 6

"DIVISION 2.—TELECOMMUNICATIONS USERS TAX.

SEC. 29.16. Tax imposed.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every person, other than a telephone
corporation, who uses telecommunication services in the city, including intrastate,
interstate and international telecommunication services, to the extent permitted by
federal and state law. Interstate calls shall be deemed to include calls to the District of
Columbia. The telecommunications users tax is intended to, and does, apply to all
charges within the city's tax jurisdiction, such as charges billed to a telecommunications
account having a situs in the city as permitted by the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act of 2000.4 USCA 116 et seq. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of three percent (3%). The tax shall apply to all charges made for such
telecommunication services. There is a rebuttable presumption that telecommunication
services billed to a billing or service address in the city are used, in whole or in part,
within the city, and that such services are subject to taxation under this chapter. There
is also a rebuttable presumption that telecommunication services sold within the city
that are not billed to a billing address or provided to a primary physical location (such
as prepaid calling card services! are used, in whole or in part, within the city and are
therefore subject to taxation under this chapter.

B.	Tax cap.

1.	Any user of telecommunications services who paid at least thirty thousand
dollars ($30.0001 in tax in the 2010 calendar year, or who paid an increase of at least
thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) in tax above the amount paid in the 2010 calendar
year, may apply to the city for a refund of taxes pursuant to this paragraph, on a form
provided by the collector for that purpose, by March 30 of 2012,2013 and 2014 with
respect to taxes paid in the previous calendar year. Upon demonstration of entitlement
to a refund, the collector shall refund to such users the tax actually paid by that person
in the year for which the refund is sought which exceeds the greater of the following
amounts:

_________a.	the amount of tax actually paid by that person in the 2010 calendar year;

_________b.	thirty thousand dollars ($30.000).

2.	The collector shall adjust the tax caps stated in Subparagraph 1 by two
percent (2%) for the years ending December 31.2011. December 31,2012 and
December 31.2013 for application to refund claims due by March 30 of each subsequent

year.

3.	Service suppliers shall collect the full amount of tax due under this section
without respect to the tax cap established by this Paragraph B. The collector alone shall
be responsible for processing refund applications and making payment upon them.

4.	A service user may appeal any decision of the collector with respect to a tax
refund application under this paragraph pursuant to Section 29.15.5 of this code, with
the collector's written notice of determination of the refund application treated as a
notice of deficiency for purposes of measuring the time in which appeal must be taken.

C.	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by
the service user in exchange for the telecommunication services.

D.	The collector may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers administrative rulings identifying those
telecommunication services that are subject to the tax of Subsection A of this section or
otherwise regarding the implementation of the tax. Such administrative rulings shall be
consistent with legal nexus and laws pertaining to telecommunications services and
shall not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology or increase an existing
tax, except as allowed bv California Government Code Section 53750(h) (2) and (3) or
other law. The collector may consider state-wide interpretive rules and guidelines
promulgated by any government agency or association of government agencies as a
factor in determining the intent of voters adopting this section. To the extent that the
collector determines that the tax imposed under this section shall not be collected in full
for any period of time, such an administrative ruling falls within the collector's
discretion to settle disputes. The collector's exercise of prosecutorial forbearance under
this chapter does not constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of
Government Code Section 53750(h), and the city does not waive or abrogate its ability
to impose the telecommunications users tax in full as a result of issuing such
administrative rulings and may suspend such rulings and recommence collection of the
tax without additional voter approval.

E.	The following shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section:

__________1. Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones available to

the public with respect to local telephone service, or with respect to long distance
telephone service if the charge for such long distance telephone service is less than
twenty-five (251 cents: except that where such coin-operated telephone service is
furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any
fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be subject to the tax.

__________2. Except with respect to local telephone service, on any charges for

services used in the collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker service

furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press or radio
broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news through the public press, or a news ticker
service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press, or by means
of radio broadcasting, if the charge for such service is billed in writing to such person.

__________3.	Charges	for	services	furnished to an international organization

designated under the International Organizations Immunities Act and defined in
22 USCA 288 or to the American National Red Cross.

__________4.	Charges	for	any long distance telephone service which originates within

a combat zone, as defined in Section 112 of the Internal Revenue Code, from a member
of the Armed Forces of the United States performing service in such combat zone, as
determined under such section, provided a certificate setting forth such facts as the
Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may bv regulations prescribe is furnished to the person
receiving such payment.

__________5.	Charges	for	any	long	distance	telephone	service to the extent that the

amount so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company, or
radio broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its business as such.

__________6.	Amounts	paid	by	a	nonprofit	hospital	for	services furnished to such

organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term "nonprofit hospital" means a
hospital referred to in Internal Revenue Code Section 170(bVl)(A)(iii) which is exempt
from income tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(a).

__________7.	Charges	for	services	or	facilities	furnished	to	the	government	of	any

state, or any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia.

__________8.	Charges	paid	by	a	nonprofit	educational	organization	for services or

facilities furnished to such organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term
"nonprofit educational organization" means an educational organization described in
Internal Revenue Code Section 170(b)(l)(Al(ii) which is exempt from income tax under
Internal Revenue Code Section 501(a). The term also includes a school operated as an
activity of an organization described in Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) which
is exempt from income tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(a), if such school
normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly
enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where its educational
activities are regularly carried on.

__________9.	Charges	for	maritime	mobile	services	as	defined	in	Section	2.1	of	Title	47

of the Code of Federal Regulations as such section existed on January 1,1970.

F.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telecommunication services
subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the collector that the

service user has previously paid the same tax in another American jurisdiction on such
telecommunication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the
extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other jurisdiction; provided,
however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the city under this
section. This ordinance shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition and
collection of the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by California and federal
law, and as that law may change from time to time.

G.	The tax on telecommunication services imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the service supplier or its billing agent. Each service
supplier shall, on or before the twentieth (20) of each month, make a return to the
collector, on forms provided, and in the manner prescribed, by the collector, stating the
amount of taxes billed by the service supplier during the preceding month. At the time
the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the collector.
The collector is authorized to properly determine if the tax imposed is levied and
collected in accordance with this chapter. Returns and remittances are due immediately
upon cessation of business for any reason.

H.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a
tax under this subchapter, "substantial nexus" and "minimum contacts" shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility
users tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as that law may
change from time to time. Any telecommunication service (including VoIP) used by a
person with a service address in the city, which service is capable of making a call to
another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable
presumption that "substantial nexus/minimum contacts" exists for purposes of
imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this chapter. A
service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the city to be obligated to
collect and remit the tax imposed by this chapter if it does any of the following:
maintains or has within the city, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of
business of any nature; solicits business in the city by employees, independent
contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the city by
means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the city or
distributed from a location within the city; or advertises in newspapers or other
periodicals printed and published within the city or through materials distributed in the
city by means other than the United States mail.

SEC. 29.17. Effect of state and federal authorization.

To the extent that the city's authorization to impose or collect any tax imposed
under this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law,
no amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax to
those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the city's
authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this chapter."

LD/8/ORD

016-07-27-10o-EA

ATTACHMENT 4
Alternative C

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW AMENDING
CHAPTER 29 OF THE MOUNTAIN VIEW CITY CODE
REGARDING THE UTILITY USERS TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN VIEW DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Code Amendment. Division 1 of Article III of Chapter 29 of the
Mountain View City Code is hereby amended to read as set forth in Exhibit "A,"
attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.

Section 2. Code Amendment. Division 2 of Article III of Chapter 29 of the
Mountain View City Code is hereby amended to read as set forth in Exhibit "B,"
attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.

Section 3. Further Amendments. Divisions 1 and 2 of Article III of Chapter 29 of
the Mountain View City Code as amended by this ordinance may be repealed or
amended by the City Council without a vote of the people except as follows: as
required by Proposition 218, any amendment that increases the amount or rate of tax
beyond the levels authorized by this ordinance may not take effect unless approved by
a vote of the people. The City Council may impose the taxes authorized by this
ordinance in any amount or rate which does not exceed the rate approved by the voters
of the City.

Section 4. Repeal. Divisions 5,6,7,9 and 10 of Article III of Chapter 29 of the
Mountain View City Code are hereby repealed.

Section 5. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions of this
Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The people of the City of
Mountain View hereby declare that they would have adopted each section, sentence,
clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions of this ordinance be declared invalid or
unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this ordinance are severable.

Section 6. Majority Approval: Effective Date. This ordinance shall be effective
only if approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon and shall go into effect ten
(10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council and the duty of service providers
to collect the tax shall commence as provided in California Public Utilities Code
Section 799.

Section 7. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute this ordinance
where indicated below to give evidence of its adoption by the voters.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was adopted by the voters of the City
of Mountain View at the November 2,2010 election.

Ronit Bryant, Mayor

Attest:

City Clerk

LMD/8/ORD

016-07-27-10o-E-lA

Exhibit A

AMENDED DIVISION 1 OF ARTICLE III OF CHAPTER 29

"DIVISION 1—GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 29.10. Title.

This article shall be known as the "Utility Users Tax Ordinance of the City of
Mountain View."

SEC. 29.11. Adoption; charter authority.

This article is adopted pursuant to the powers of the City of Mountain View as a
charter city as provided in Article II of the City Charter, and as authorized by Section 6
of Article XI of the Constitution of the State of California, and is adopted as a tax levy to
meet the usual current expenses of the city.

SEC. 29.12. Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions contained in this
section shall govern the construction of this article. The word "may" is always directory
and discretionary and not mandatory; the word "shall" is always mandatory and not
directory or discretionary.

"Ancillary telecommunications services" shall mean services that are associated
with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services
including, but not limited to. the following:

1.	Services that link two (2) or more participants of an audio or video conference
call, including the provision of a telephone number.

2.	Services that separately state information pertaining to individual calls on a
customer's billing statement.

3.	Services that provide telephone number information and/or address
information.

4.	Services offered in connection with one (1) or more telecommunications
services which offer advanced calling features that allow customers to identify callers or
to manage multiple calls and call connections.

5.	Services that enable customers to store, send or receive recorded messages.

"Billing address" shall mean the mailing address of a service user where a service
supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the service user.

"City" shall mean the City of Mountain View, California, meludlng either the
municipal corporation or all of the territory and jurisdiction thereof as presently
constituted and any and all of the same which shall later come into existence by any
manner or means whatsoever.

"Collector" or "director" shall mean the revenue officer finance and administrative
services director or his/her designee of the City of Mountain View.

''Director'' shall mean the director of finance of the City of Mountain View.

"Electrical corporation," "gas corporation" and "telephone corporation" shall have
the same meanings as defined provided in Sections 218,222 and 234, respectively, of the
Public Utilities Code of the State of California.

"Month" shall mean a calendar month.

"Person" shall mean any natural person, firm, any all-domestic and foreign
corporations, associations, firm, trust, estate, association, syndicates, joint ventures, joint
stock company, limited liability company, partnerships of any every kind, clubs,
Massachusetts business or common law trust of any kind, society societies, cooperative,
receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court,
municipal district, municipal corporation (other than the city), or the manager, lessee,
and-any officer, er-agent or employee of any of them thereof.

"Private telecommunication service" means any dedicated virtual or actual
telecommunications service that entitles a user to exclusive or priority use of
communications channels.

"Service address" means the street address of the service user's primary place of

use.

"Service supplier" shall mean any person required to collect a tax imposed under
the provisions of this article.

"Service user" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under rite
provisions of this article.

"Telecommunication services" includes the transmission, conveyance, or routing of
voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or
among points, whether or not such information is transmitted through interconnected
service with the public switched network, whatever the technology used, whether such

transmission, conveyance or routing occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic, light wave, laser,
microwave, radio wave (including, but not limited to. cellular service, commercial
mobile service, personal communications service (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR)
and other types of personal wireless service—see 47 USCA Section 332(c) (7) (C) (i)—
regardless of radio spectrum used), switching facilities, satellite or any other technology
now existing or developed after the adoption of this section, and includes, without
limitation, fiber-optic, coaxial cable and wireless. The term "telecommunication
services" includes such transmission, conveyance or routing in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content for
purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such
services are referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified
by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes
video and/or data services that are functionally integrated with telecommunications
services.

"Telecommunication services" include, but are not limited to. the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or
billed: central office and custom calling features (including, but not limited to, call
waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling), local number
portability, text messaging, ancillary telecommunication services, prepaid and post-
paid telecommunications services (including, but not limited to, prepaid calling cards'):
mobile telecommunications service; paging service: 800 service lor any other toll-free
numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission): and value-added
nonvoice data service. "Telecommunication service" does not include: private
telecommunication service: internet access services: video programming services: or
digital downloads, such as downloads of books, music, ringtones, games or similar
digital products.

SEC. 29.13. Exemptions.

Nothing contained in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon the city
or any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of California.

SEC. 29.14. Conflicts.

Nothing contained in this article is intended to conflict with applicable rules,
regulations and tariffs of any service supplier subject to the jurisdiction of the California
Public Utilities Commission. In the event of any conflict, the provisions of said rules,
regulations and tariffs shall control.

SEC. 29.15. Tax; effective date.

The taxes imposed by this article shall become operative as of October 1,1970.

A.	The taxes imposed by this article shall be collected insofar as practicable at
the same time as, and along with, the collection of charges made in accordance with the
regular billing practice of a service supplier.

B.	The duty to collect taxes from a service user shall commence with the
beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to that person which starts on or
after the operative date of this article and as provided by California Public Utilities
Code Section 799. If a person receives separate billing for different periods, the duty to
collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

SEC. 29.15.2. Records.

It shall be the duty of every person obligated to collect the tax imposed under this
article to preserve for three (3) years all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable to collect and remit to the
collector, which records the collector shall have the right to inspect or copy at all
reasonable times.

SEC. 29.15.3. Delinquent payment penalty.

A.	Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the collector on
or before the due dates provided in this article are delinquent.

B.	Penalties for delinquency in remittance of any tax collected or any deficiency
determination shall attach and be paid by the service supplier at the rate of fifteen
percent (15%) of the total tax imposed by this article.

C.	The collector shall have power to impose additional penalties upon a service
supplier for fraud or negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen percent
(15%) of the amount of the tax due.

D.	In addition to any other penalties imposed by this article, any person
required to collect and/or remit the tax imposed by this article who fails to collect the
tax or fails to remit the tax collected shall pay interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per
month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the
date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, no penalty or
interest shall apply if delinquencies result from natural disasters or other phenomena
beyond the control of the person charged with collecting and remitting the tax.

provided the person being delinquent notifies the collector as soon as normal
communications permit and collects and remits the tax promptly thereafter.

F.	Every penalty imposed and interest due under the provisions of this section
shall become a part of the tax required to be remitted.

SEC. 29.15.4. Failure to pay—Administrative remedy.

Whenever the collector determines that a service user has deliberately withheld
the amount of the tax owed by him or her from the amounts remitted to a service
supplier, or that a service user has failed to pay the amount of the tax for a period of
two or more billing periods, or whenever the collector deems it in the best interest of the
city, he or she may relieve the service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due
under this article from certain named service users for specified billing periods. The
collector shall notify the service user that he or she has assumed responsibility to collect
the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. The notice
shall be served on the service user by handing it to him or her personally or by deposit
of the notice in the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to
the service user at the address to which billing was made by the service supplier; or
should the service user have changed his or her address, to his or her last known
address. If a service user fails to remit the tax to the collector within fifteen (15) days
from the date of service of the notice upon him or her, which shall be the date of
mailing if service is not accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty-five percent
(25%) of the amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but in no event
shall the total penalty for nonpayment of the delinquent tax accounts be less than five
dollars ($5). The penalty shall thereupon become part of the tax required to be paid by
this article.

SEC. 29.15.5. Assessments and appeal.

The collector may make an assessment for taxes not paid or remitted as required
by this article. The collector shall mail a notice of such assessment, which shall state the
taxes, penalties and interest imposed and the time and place where the assessment may
be contested, to the service supplier and/or the service user at least ten (10) days prior
to the date of the hearing and shall post such notice for at least five (5) continuous days
prior to the hearing. Any interested party having any objections may appear and be
heard by the collector provided his or her objection is filed in writing with the collector
prior to the time of the hearing. At the time fixed for considering such assessment, the
collector shall hear the same, together with any objections filed as provided in this
subsection, and thereupon may confirm or modify such assessment. The decision of the
collector shall be final as to the city but shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.5.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this article
shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any such tax collected
from a service user which has not been remitted to the collector shall be deemed a debt
owed to the city by the service supplier. Any person owing money to the city under the
provisions of this article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city for
the recovery of such amount and to any other remedy available at law or in equity and
resort to any remedy shall not be foreclosed to any other remedy until the tax is
collected and paid as required by this article.

SEC. 29.15.7. Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the collector under this
article, it may be refunded as provided in this section.

B.	A service supplier may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected
and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally
collected or received, when it is established in a manner prescribed by the collector that
the service user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided,
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax
so collected has either been refunded to the service user or credited to charges
subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and remit.

C.	No refund shall be paid under this section unless the claimant establishes his
or her right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

D.	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant has submitted a claim pursuant to Section 1.35 of this code.

SEC. 29.15.8. Effect of commingling nontaxable items with taxable items.

If one or more nontaxable items are bundled or billed together with one or more
taxable items (as provided for by this article) under a single charge on a customer's bill,
the entire single charge shall be taxed unless a service supplier reasonably identifies to
the collector the nontaxable component of the single charge based upon one or more of
the following methodologies, as selected by the collector: (0 the average industry
charges for nontaxable items included in the single charge; (ii) the amount of the single
charge less the average industry charges for taxable items included in the single charge;
or (iii) the service supplier's books and records kept in the regular course of business,
which must be consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.

A. The collector shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to
enforce this article.

B. The collector shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations consistent
with provisions of this article to carry out and enforce the obligations to pay, collect and
remit the tax imposed by this article. A copy of such rules and regulations shall be on
file in the collector's office.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the collector may make administrative
agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary the strict requirements of this article
and thereby: (i) conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so
long as said agreements result in collection of the tax in conformance with the general
purpose and scope of this article; or (ii) to avoid a hardship where the administrative
costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such
agreement shall be on file in the collector's office and are voidable by the collector or the
city at any time."

SEC. 29.15.10. Audit.

The city shall annually audit the taxes remitted in accordance with this division,
and properly expending the taxes according to applicable law. The audit may employ
reasonable, cost-effective steps to ensure compliance, including the use of sampling. No
audit shall be conducted as to a service supplier where the cost of the audit is expected
to exceed the tax revenues to be received."

LD/8/ORD
016-07-27-10o-E-lA

AMENDED DIVISION 2 OF ARTICLE III OF CHAPTER 29

Exhibit B

"DIVISION 2.—TELECOMMUNICATIONS USERS TAX.

SEC. 29.16. Tax imposed.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every person, other than a telephone
corporation, who uses telecommunication services in the city, including intrastate,
interstate and international telecommunication services, to the extent permitted by
federal and state law. Interstate calls shall be deemed to include calls to the District of
Columbia. The telecommunications users tax is intended to, and does, apply to all
charges within the city's tax jurisdiction, such as charges billed to a telecommunications
account having a situs in the city as permitted by the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act of 2000,4 USCA 116 et seq. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of three percent (3%). The tax shall apply to all charges made for such
telecommunication services. There is a rebuttable presumption that telecommunication
services billed to a billing or service address in the city are used, in whole or in part,
within the city, and that such services are subject to taxation under this chapter. There
is also a rebuttable presumption that telecommunication services sold within the city
that are not billed to a billing address or provided to a primary physical location (such
as prepaid calling card services) are used, in whole or in part, within the city and are
therefore subject to taxation under this chapter.

B.	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by
the service user in exchange for the telecommunication services.

C.	The collector may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers administrative rulings identifying those
telecommunication services that are subject to the tax of Subsection A of this section or
otherwise regarding the implementation of the tax. Such administrative rulings shall be
consistent with legal nexus and laws pertaining to telecommunications services and
shall not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology or increase an existing
tax, except as allowed by California Government Code Section 53750(h) (2) and (3) or
other law. The collector may consider state-wide interpretive rules and guidelines
promulgated by any government agency or association of government agencies as a
factor in determining the intent of voters adopting this section. To the extent that the
collector determines that the tax imposed under this section shall not be collected in full
for any period of time, such an administrative ruling falls within the collector's
discretion to settle disputes. The collector’s exercise of prosecutorial forbearance under
this chapter does not constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of
Government Code Section 53750(h), and the city does not waive or abrogate its ability
to impose the telecommunications users tax in full as a result of issuing such

administrative rulings and may suspend such rulings and recommence collection of the
tax without additional voter approval.

D.	The following shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section:

__________1.	Charges	paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones available to

the public with respect to local telephone service, or with respect to long distance
telephone service if the charge for such long distance telephone service is less than
twenty-five (25) cents: except that where such coin-operated telephone service is
furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any
fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be subject to the tax.

__________2.	Except	with respect to local telephone service, on any charges for

services used in the collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker service
furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press or radio
broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news through the public press, or a news ticker
service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press, or by means
of radio broadcasting, if the charge for such service is billed in writing to such person.

__________ 3.	Charges	for services furnished to an international organization

designated under the International Organizations Immunities Act and defined in
22 USCA 288 or to the American National Red Cross.

___________4.	Charges for any long distance telephone service which originates within

a combat zone, as defined in Section 112 of the Internal Revenue Code, from a member
of the Armed Forces of the United States performing service in such combat zone, as
determined under such section, provided a certificate setting forth such facts as the
Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may by regulations prescribe is furnished to the person
receiving such payment.

___________5.	Charges for any long distance telephone service to the extent that the

amount so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company, or
radio broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its business as such.

___________6.	Amounts paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to such

organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term "nonprofit hospital" means a
hospital referred to in Internal Revenue Code Section 170(b)(l)(A)(iii) which is exempt
from income tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(a).

___________7.	Charges for services or facilities furnished to the government of any

state, or any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia.

___________8.	Charges paid by a nonprofit educational organization for services or

facilities furnished to such organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term

"nonprofit educational organization" means an educational organization described in
Internal Revenue Code Section 170(b)(l)(A)(ii) which is exempt from income tax under
Internal Revenue Code Section 501(a). The term also includes a school operated as an
activity of an organization described in Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) which
is exempt from income tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(a). if such school
normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly
enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where its educational
activities are regularly carried on.

__________9.	Charges	for	maritime	mobile services as defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47

of the Code of Federal Regulations as such section existed on lanuarv 1.1970.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telecommunication services
subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the collector that the
service user has previously paid the same tax in another American jurisdiction on such
telecommunication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the
extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other jurisdiction; provided,
however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the city under this
section. This ordinance shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition and
collection of the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by California and federal
law, and as that law may change from time to time.

F.	The tax on telecommunication services imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the service supplier or its billing agent. Each service
supplier shall, on or before the twentieth (201 of each month, make a return to the
collector, on forms provided, and in the manner prescribed, by the collector, stating the
amount of taxes billed by the service supplier during the preceding month. At the time
the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the collector.
The collector is authorized to properly determine if the tax imposed is levied and
collected in accordance with this chapter. Returns and remittances are due immediately
upon cessation of business for any reason.

G.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a
tax under this subchapter, "substantial nexus" and "minimum contacts" shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility
users tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as that law may
change from time to time. Any telecommunication service (including VoIP) used by a
person with a service address in the city, which service is capable of making a call to
another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable
presumption that "substantial nexus/minimum contacts" exists for purposes of
imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this chapter. A
service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the city to be obligated to
collect and remit the tax imposed by this chapter if it does any of the following:
maintains or has within the city, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of

business of any nature; solicits business in the city by employees, independent
contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives: solicits business in the city by
means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the city or
distributed from a location within the city; or advertises in newspapers or other
periodicals printed and published within the city or through materials distributed in the
city by means other than the United States mail.

SEC. 29.17. Effect of state and federal authorization.

To the extent that the city's authorization to impose or collect any tax imposed
under this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law,
no amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax to
those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the city's
authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this chapter."

LD/8/ORD

016-07-27-10o-E-lA

ATTACHMENT 5

UNAPPROVED MINUTES

3. STUDY SESSION

3.1 MODERNIZATION OF TELEPHONE USERS TAX ORDINANCE

The Assistant to the City Manager offered brief introductory comments on
this item, explaining that staff is recommending to update a potential
Telephone Users Tax (TUT) modernization ballot measure to reflect current
telecommunications technology, changes in Federal law and to strengthen the
ordinance's enforceability.

Bryan Godbe, President—Godbe Research, spoke briefly and introduced his
colleague, Dr. Davidson.

Dr. Amelia Davidson, Senior Research Manager—Godbe Research, explained
that Godbe Research was commissioned to conduct a telephone survey to
assess potential voter support for the aforementioned ordinance. This survey
was designed to prioritize a list of City services and facilities that voters
perceive are important to maintain with the funds generated by the TUT; test
the influence of supporting and opposing messages on potential voter
support; and identify any differences in voter support due to demographic
and/or voter behavioral characteristics. She explained that data collection
was done via 15-minute telephone interviews conducted from March 29
through April 2,2010, of 400 voters out of approximately 19,804 registered
voters in the City of Mountain View who are likely to vote in the
November 2010 election. She then reviewed in detail the results of the
telephone survey.

Councilmember Inks asked what kind of updated technology language will
be in the ordinance and the Assistant to the City Manager responded that the
older, common language only referenced telephones and modernization
language mentions newer technologies, such as cell phones, wireless. Voice
over Internet, etc.

Councilmember Inks asked how they treat certain language to ensure equal
treatment of taxpayers and Mr. Godbe responded that there could be an
unequal treatment of taxpayers and that is the reason for the modernization.
He explained that they are trying to solve an inequity amongst all of those
different technologies.

The Assistant to the City Manager clarified to Councilmember Macias that the
current ordinance includes intrastate and wireless.

Regular Meeting - April 27,2010

Page 2

Councilmember Macias stated that they need to make very clear in the
language that wireless providers and land-line providers pay a TUT, but that
all other providers, such as voice, cable or private networks, do not.

Mayor Bryant asked whether there is a template they will be working off of or
if they are expecting to build whatever tax on their own, compared to what
other cities are doing, and staff explained that they do have a template, noting
that other cities have tax modernization ordinances.

The City Manager clarified that the City just wants to make sure that they can
continue to collect what they are already collecting and they are really just
expanding the potential universe to interstate and international. He noted
that they are already collecting the tax on cell phone providers via bundling,
but the old ordinance is not explicit and they just want to include the newer
technologies in the ordinance so that if there are any questions regarding
what people are being taxed on, it will be covered.

The Assistant to the City Manager stated that there are a number of next steps
regarding communication with businesses and the community at-large and
the City Manager asked for a general sense from the Council regarding
proceeding and that any comments or suggestions on general structure
would be helpful.

Councilmember Macias stated that consumers have a choice of what long-
distance providers they use and suggested that staff identify all of the
different sources of whom they should be taxing.

Councilmember Kasperzak clarified that they think of the big five telecom
companies, but there are hundreds of companies and, to some degree, they
are already collecting from many of those companies.

Councilmember Means expressed concern that, at some point, people are
going to ask what they are getting in return for the taxes they are paying.

Responding to a question from Vice Mayor Siegel, the Assistant to the City
Manager stated that based on how different services are billed to their
customers as well as on their previous audit and work in other cities, a very
rough estimate of how much they could raise from this could be several
hundred thousand dollars.

The public input period was opened and seeing no one wishing to speak, the
public input period was closed.

Regular Meeting - April 27,2010

Page 3

Vice Mayor Siegel commented that he is pleased with the survey and given
they do the right work, they should pass this ordinance. He also questioned
how many other cities have done this expansion.

The Assistant to the City Manager stated that four of the seven cities in Santa
Clara County with TUTs do tax on interstate and international calls, but he is
unsure how many cities State-wide do it and he can bring that information
back to the Council.

Mayor Bryant stated that updating the ordinance to cover services that were
not around years ago makes sense and is fair and she expressed support to
move forward carefully.

Regular Meeting - April 27,2010

Page 4

ATTACHMENT 6

DIVISION 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS
DIVISION 2. - TELEPHONE USERS TAX.

DIVISION 3. - ELECTRICITY USERS TAX.

DIVISION 4. - GAS USERS TAX.

DIVISION 5. - COLLECTION OF TAX

DIVISION 6. - DELINQUENT TAXES

DIVISION 7. - FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX

DIVISION 9. - RECORDS.

DIVISION 10. - REFUNDS.

DIVISION 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 29.10. - Title.

SEC. 29.11. - Adoption: charter authority.
SEC. 29.12. - Definitions.

SEC. 29.13. - Exemptions.

SEC. 29.14.-Conflicts.

SEC. 29.15. - Tax: effective date.

SEC. 29.10. - Title.

This article shall be known as the "Utility Users Tax Ordinance of the City of Mountain

View."

SEC. 29.11. - Adoption; charter authority.

This article is adopted pursuant to the powers of the City of Mountain View as a charter
city as provided in Article II of the City Charter, and as authorized by Section 6 of Article XI of the
Constitution of the State of California, and is adopted as a tax levy to meet the usual current
expenses of the city.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.12. - Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions contained in this section shall
govern the construction of this article. The word "may" is always directory and discretionary and not
mandatory; the word "shall" is always mandatory and not directory or discretionary.

"City" shall mean the City of Mountain View, California, including all of the territory and
jurisdiction thereof as presently constituted, and any and all of the same which shall later come into
existence by any manner or means whatsoever.

"Collector" shall mean the revenue officer of the City of Mountain View.

"Director" shall mean the director of finance of the City of Mountain View.

"Electrical corporation," "gas corporation," and "telephone corporation" shall have the
same meanings as defined in Sec. 218, 222 and 234, respectively, of the Public Utilities Code of
the State of California.

'Month" shall mean a calendar month.

"Person" shall mean any natural person, firm, all domestic and foreign corporations,
associations, syndicates, joint ventures, partnerships of every kind, clubs, Massachusetts business
or common law trusts, societies, and any officer or agent thereof.

"Service supplier" shall mean any person required to collect a tax imposed under the
provisions of this article.

"Service user" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under the provisions of
this article.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.13. - Exemptions.

Nothing contained in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon the city, or any
person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution of the
United States or that of the State of California.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.14. - Conflicts.

Nothing contained in this article is intended to conflict with applicable rules, regulations
and tariffs of any service supplier subject to the jurisdiction of the California Public Utilities
Commission. In the event of any conflict, the provisions of said rules, regulations and tariffs shall
control.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.15. - Tax; effective date.

The taxes imposed by this article shall become operative as of October 1,1970.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

DIVISION 2. - TELEPHONE USERS TAX.

SEC. 29.16. - Tax imposed.

SEC. 29.17. - Exemptions.

SEC. 29.18. - Segregation of nontaxable charges.
SEC. 29.19. - Tax, collection.

SEC. 29.16. - Tax imposed.

There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city, other than a telephone
corporation, using intrastate telephone communication services in the city. The tax imposed by this
article shall be at the rate of three (3) percent of the charges made for such services, and shall be
paid by the person paying for such services.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70; Ord. No. 2.71, 1/11/71.)

SEC. 29.17. - Exemptions.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Sec. 29.16, the tax imposed under this article shall not
be imposed upon any person for using intrastate telephone communication services to the extent
that the amounts paid for such services are exempt from or not subject to the tax as set forth in
Council Policy B-7.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70; Ord. No. 12.06, 12/12/06.)

SEC. 29.18. - Segregation of nontaxable charges.

As used in this article, the term "charges" shall include the value of all services, credits,
property of any kind or nature, or other consideration provided by a service user in exchange for
utility services. If a nontaxable service and a taxable service are billed together under a single
charge, sometimes referred to as "bundling," the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the
service supplier identifies, by verifiable data, based upon its books and records that are kept in the
regular course of business, in a manner that is consistent with generally accepted accounting
principles, the nontaxable component of the charge. A service supplier has the burden to prove the
proper apportionment of taxable and nontaxable charges.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70; Ord. No. 12.06, 12/12/06.)

SEC. 29.19. - Tax, collection.

The tax imposed in this division shall be collected from the service user by the person
providing the intrastate telephone communication services. The amount of tax collected in one (1)
month shall be remitted to the collector on or before the last day of the following month.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

DIVISION 5. - COLLECTION OF TAX

SEC. 29.26. - Suit bv city.

SEC. 29.27. - Duty to collect: procedures.
SEC. 29.28. - Administrative agreements.

SEC. 29.26. - Suit by city.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this article shall be
deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any such tax collected from a service user
which has not been remitted to the collector shall be deemed a debt owed to the city by the person
required to collect and remit. Any person owing money to the city under the provisions of this article
shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city for the recovery of such amount.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.27. - Duty to collect; procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this article shall be performed as

follows:

The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along
with the charges made in accordance with regular billing practice of the service
supplier. Except in those cases where a service user pays the full amount of said
charges but does not pay any portion of a tax imposed by this article, or where a
service user has notified a service supplier that he is refusing to pay a tax

imposed by this article which said supplier is required to collect, if the amount
paid by a service user is less than the full amount of the charge and tax which
has accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and
the tax shall be deemed to have been paid.

(2)

The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence with the beginning of
the first regular billing period applicable to that person which starts on or after the
operative date of this article. Where a person receives more than one (1) billing,
one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall
arise separately for each billing period.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.28. - Administrative agreements.

The director may make administrative agreements to vary the strict requirements of this
article so that collection of any tax imposed herein may be made in conformance with the billing
procedures of a particular service supplier so long as the overall result of said agreements results
in collection of tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of this article. A copy of
each such agreement shall be on file and available for public examination in the director's office.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

DIVISION 6. - DELINQUENT TAXES

SEC. 29.29. - Taxes: when delinquent.

SEC. 29.30. - Service supplier: penalty.

SEC. 29.31. ■ Service supplier: fraud: penalty.

SEC. 29.32. - Service supplier: interest.

SEC. 29.33. - Service supplier: penalty and interest part of tax.
SEC. 29.34. - Service user: penalty.

SEC. 29.35. - Service user: fraud: penalty.

SEC. 29.36. - Service user: interest.

SEC. 29.37. - Service user: penalty and interest part of tax.

SEC. 29.38. - Service user: penalties and interest collected bv city.

SEC. 29.29. - Taxes; when delinquent.

Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the collector on or before the
due date provided in this article are delinquent. Any tax billed to a service user but not paid to the
service supplier shall not be deemed an obligation of the service supplier unless such tax is
thereafter paid to the service supplier.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.30. - Service supplier; penalty.

In addition to remitting the amount of the tax, any service supplier who fails to remit any
tax imposed by this article within the time required and upon five (5) days written notice to the
service supplier of its failure to remit, shall pay a penalty of ten (10) percent of the amount of the
tax or five (5) dollars, whichever is larger, which shall be added on the last day of each month
following the date on which remittance was due until the tax and penalties are remitted.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.31. - Service supplier; fraud; penalty.

If the collector determines that the non-payment by any service supplier of any remittance
due under this article is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five (25) percent of the amount of the tax
shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in Sec. 29.30.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.32. - Service supplier; interest.

In addition to the penalties imposed by Sec. 29.30 and 29.31, any service supplier who
fails to remit any tax imposed by this article shall pay interest at the rate of one (1) percent per
month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which
the remittance first became delinquent until paid.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.33. - Service supplier; penalty and interest part of tax.

Every penalty imposed upon a service supplier and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of Sec. 29.30 to 29.32 inclusive shall become part of the tax required to be remitted.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.34. - Service user; penalty.

In addition to paying the amount of the tax, any service user who fails to pay any tax
imposed by this article within thirty (30) days of the date of the receipt of notice of the amount of tax
due from the service supplier shall pay a penalty of ten (10) percent of the amount of the tax, or five
(5) dollars, whichever is larger, which shall be added on the last day of each month following the
date on which payment was due until the tax and penalties are paid.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.35. - Service user; fraud; penalty.

If the collector determines that the nonpayment by any service user of any tax imposed by
this article is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five (25) percent of the amount of the tax shall be
added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in Sec. 29.34.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.36. - Service user; interest.

In addition to the penalties imposed by Sec. 29.34 and 29.35, any service user who fails to
pay any tax imposed by this article shall pay interest at the rate of one (1) percent per month or
fraction thereof, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid, and a collection charge often (10) dollars for each delinquent account.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.37. - Service user; penalty and interest part of tax.

Every penalty imposed, and such interest as accrues upon a service user, under the
provisions of Sec. 29.34 to 29.36, inclusive, shall become a part of the tax required to be paid.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.38. - Service user; penalties and interest collected by city.

The penalties, interest, and collection charges imposed in Sec. 29.34 to 29.36, inclusive,
shall not be collected by the service supplier, but by the city.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

DIVISION 7. - FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX

SEC. 29.39. - Determination of tax bv collector: notice.

SEC. 29.40. - Hearing on determination of tax: application.

SEC. 29.41. - Determination of tax following hearing: notice: when due.

SEC. 29.42. - Collection of taxes from service user bv citv: conditions: notice.
SEC. 29.43. - Who may appeal.

SEC. 29.44. ■ Hearing: notice.

SEC. 29.45. - Hearing: determination.

SEC. 29.46. - Hearing: penalties suspended.

SEC. 29.39. - Determination of tax by collector; notice.

If any service supplier shall fail to make, within the time provided in this article, any report
and remittance of said tax or any portion thereof required by this article, the collector shall proceed
in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to base his estimate
of the tax due. As soon as the collector shall procure such facts and information as he is able to
obtain upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any
service supplier who has failed or refused to make such report and remittance, he shall proceed to
determine and assess against such service supplier the tax, interest and penalties provided for by
this article. In case such determination is made, the collector shall give a notice of the amount so
assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the service supplier so assessed at his last known place of address.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.40. - Hearing on determination of tax; application.

The service supplier may within ten (10) days after the serving or mailing of the notice
referred to in Sec. 29.39 make application in writing to the collector for a hearing on the amount
assessed. If application by the service supplier for a hearing is not made within the time prescribed,
the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the collector shall become final and conclusive
and immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the collector shall give not less than
five (5) days' written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the service supplier to show cause at
a time and place fixed in said notice why said amount specified therein should not be fixed for such
tax, interest and penalties. At such hearing, the service supplier may appear and offer evidence
why such specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.41. - Determination of tax following hearing; notice; when due.

After a hearing on the amount of tax assessed, the collector shall determine the proper tax
to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the service supplier in the manner
prescribed above of such determination and amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The
amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen (15) days unless an appeal is taken as
provided in this article.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.42. - Collection of taxes from service user by city; conditions; notice.

Whenever the collector determines that a service user has deliberately withheld the
amount of any tax imposed on him by the provisions of this article from the amounts remitted to a
service supplier required to collect the tax. or that a service user has failed to pay the amount of the
tax to such service supplier for a period of four (4) or more billing periods, or whenever the collector
deems it in the best interest of the city, he shall relieve such service supplier of the obligation to
collect taxes due under this article from certain named service users for specified billing periods.
The collector shall notify the service user that he has assumed responsibility to collect the taxes
due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes, plus any penalty imposed and such
interest as may be due pursuant to the provisions of Division 6 of this article. The notice shall be
served on the service user by handing it to him personally or by deposit of the notice in the United
States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user, at the address to which billing
was made by the service supplier required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have
changed his address, to his last known address.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.43. - Who may appeal.

Any person aggrieved by any decision of the collector pursuant to this article may appeal
to the director by filing a notice of appeal with the director within fifteen (15) days of the serving or
mailing of the decision.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.44. - Hearing; notice.

The director shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal. The director shall give
notice thereof in writing to such person by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United
States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such person at his last known address.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.45. - Hearing; determination.

The director shall have authority to determine all questions raised on such appeal at the
time of the hearing. No determination so made by the director shall conflict with any substantive
provision of this article.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

SEC. 29.46. - Hearing; penalties suspended.

No penalty provided for in this article shall be imposed after the filing of an appeal or prior
to the completion of the hearing on the appeal and the making of a determination on the subject of
the appeal by the director.

(Ord. No. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

DIVISION 9. - RECORDS.

SEC 29 47. - Retention period: access

SEC. 29.47. - Retention period; access.

It shall be the duty of every service supplier required to collect and remit to the city any tax
imposed by this article to keep and preserve, for a period of three (3) years, all records as may be
necessary to determine the amount of such tax as such service supplier may have been required to
collect and remit to the city, which records the collector shall have the right to inspect at all
reasonable times.

(OrdNo. 29.70, 8/10/70.)

DIVISION 10.-REFUNDS.

SEC. 29.48. - Refunds.

SEC. 29.49 to 29.51. - Repealed bv Ord. No. 12.06. 12/12/06

SEC. 29.48. - Refunds.

a.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the collector under this article, it may be
refunded as provided in this section.

b.

A service supplier may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected and
remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or
received when it is established in a manner prescribed by the collector that the service
user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax, provided, however, that
neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has
either been refunded to the service user or credited to charges subsequently payable by
the service user to the person required to collect and remit.

c.

A service user may claim a refund, or take as credit against taxes collected and remitted,
the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received
when it is established to the satisfaction of the collector and in a manner prescribed by the
collector that the service user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax,
provided, however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed if the amount of the
tax so collected has either been refunded to the service user or credited to charges
subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and remit, and
provided further that the service user has been unable to obtain a refund from the service
supplier who collected the tax.

d.

No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant
established his right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

e.

No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant has
submitted a claim pursuant to Sec. 1.35, "Claims," of Article 111, "Claims," of Chapter 1,
"General Provisions," of the Mountain View City Code.

(OrdNo. 29.70, 8/10/70; Ord. No. 12.06, 12/12/06.)

SEC. 29.49 to 29.51. - Repealed by Ord. No. 12.06,12/12/06.

TUT Modernization Impact Estimates

ATTACHMENT 7

The following analysis provides an order of magnitude assessment of how the proposed
Telecommunications Users Tax modernization ordinance might potentially impact
telecommunications users. This assessment serves as examples only, based on staffs
review of residential users’ bills that were volunteered confidentially for review, and
based on estimates confidentially provided by some businesses by the time of the release
of this report. The City’s ability to gather detailed billing data is limited because the City
does not have access to customers’ bills and telecommunications plans and services can
vary widely from resident to resident and business to business. Telecommunications
service users will need to review the specifics of their own billing plans and/or ask their
service provider in order to determine the specific impact of this measure.

Residential Telecommunications Users

A.	Land-line local service: A flat rate plan, commonly approximately $30/month,
currently pays approximately $0.90/month in TUT. Estimated Impact: no impact.

B.	Land-line long-distance service: A flat rate plan, commonly approximately
$20/month, might currently pay $0.35/month in TUT where intrastate calls comprise
approximately 80-90% of the long-distance minutes and interstate calls the rest.
Under the proposed modernization, interstate calls would be subject to the tax in
addition to intrastate, so the TUT would apply to the flat rate of $20 instead of an
intrastate fraction thereof. Estimated Impact: Increase from $0.35/month to

$0.60/month.

C.	Land-line international calling: Many services are fixed per minute charges, often as
low as $0.02/minute with a connection charge of $0.50. For example, a 15 minute
international call may cost $0.80. International calls are currently exempt from the
TUT. Estimated Impact: Increase from $0.00 to $0.024for a 15 minute
international call.

D.	Digital Voice/Voice over Internet Protocol (VOIP): The TUT currently applies to
these types of services, but compliance varies from provider to provider, including
whether interstate or international calls are distinguishable in the service provider’s
accounting system and thus whether they are taxed or not. For example, one provider
that bundles voice, internet, and video services together at a charge of $165/month is
able to account for the voice service portion of that bundle and the TUT currently
charged is $0.77/month. Another provider that sells a stand-alone VoIP service for
$9.99/month charges $0.30 for the TUT. Staff is also aware of VoIP providers that
do not charge the TUT. Estimated Impact: Not Available (depends on whether your
VoIP provider currently charges the TUT and whether they account for a difference
between local and long-distance calls).

Mobile Telecommunications Users

The TUT currently applies to mobile phone services. For example, a cell phone plan that
costs $35 for 300 “anytime” minutes pays approximately $l/month in TUT, regardless of
whether calls are intrastate or interstate. A second mobile phone on that plan, commonly
at a cost of approximately $10, is charged $0.30 in TUT. A mobile phone with a data
plan at a cost range of $60 to $80/month currently is charged approximately $1.80 to
$2.40/month in TUT. Digital downloads from mobile devices, such as games, ringtones,
applications, etc. are not charged the TUT. Estimated Impact: no impact.

Business Telecommunications Users

A.	Similar to residential land-line users, businesses that use land-line services for
intrastate, interstate, and international calling will only be affected based on the
difference of cost between their current TUT charge for intrastate calling and three
percent of their interstate and international long-distance plan charges.

B.	All telecommunications lines, whether transmitting voice data or other data, will be
charged the TUT. As the report discusses, there is a prevalence of transitions to VoIP
services, and digital voice data is indistinguishable from other data. Due to this
modernization, one medium size business estimates that its TUT charge will increase
from under $100/month to approximately $600/month. In general, if a business’s
Internet service line from a service provider costs $2,000/month, and the Internet
Access allocation of this charge is 50% (Internet service providers must show a
documented allocation formula for Internet Access versus other charges upon
customer request), then $l,000/month will be charged the TUT, or an increase of
$30/month. Estimated Impact: $30/month increase per every $l,000/month of
Internet service provision, excluding Internet Access allocation by service provider.

C.	At the time of the release of this report, staff had not received other specific estimates
from Mountain View businesses about the impact of the TUT modernization, despite
extensive communications and cooperation with numerous large businesses to receive
such estimates. Staff will continue to communicate with these large businesses and
any others that may be interested regarding the TUT modernization.

This space for filing stamp only

SAN JOSE POST-RECORD

95 S. Market St., Ste. 535, SAN JOSE, CA 95113
Telephone (408) 287-4866 / Fax (408) 287-2544

PATTY JUANES
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CITY OF
P.O. BOX 7540

MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA - 94039

PROOF OF PUBLICATION

(2015.5 C.C.P.)

State of California	)

County of SANTA CLARA	) ss

Notice Type:	GMV - MOUNTAIN VIEW

Ad Description: TELECOMMUNICATIONS USERS TAX

SJ#: 1905759

COTOFMOUMTMNVEW
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEAfUNG
CfTYCOUNOL

NOTICE IS HB1EBY GIVEN MTuMdw,
f»27l)(lwafJl^910.N(i*liowcf$;

l ot «■ toon I_____________

can M bMrd to «w &>und) Chambcra
at Cty Hal, 9tX) Caaba Sbaat Mountain
\4mx haa baan aat aa to# torn andntoco
far pMcImriraontefoaowtoi torn:

A RaaoMlori oraa Cby Coundl of Aa &&
of Mountota Mkm, SitonMno to toa \Mara,
at ka Nowondar 2,21)10 Ginaol Mudcfcal

29 of tho UouMato Vtow Cly Coda,
mpni^ MMiniviiiKHini umi w

Intonated parttet may appear and
be heard. Wrttten statements may be
submitted to die City Clerk, P.O. Box
7540, Mountain Vtow, CaMbmta. 94039.
LmhI dtotoidt® imw to Mad Id thoaa
Imm orottosJfatefitoid it (to puMfc
tearing onftfor biMHM consipondanca
datoamdtomeC|yCtoifcaLwpriarto,die

—-o-m- a. -

pupae iMmp.

I am a citizen of the United States and a resident of the State of California; I am
over the age of eighteen years, and not a party to or interested in the above
entitled matter. I am the principal clerk of the printer and publisher of the SAN
JOSE POST-RECORD, a newspaper published in the English language in the
city of SAN JOSE, county of SANTA CLARA, and adjudged a newspaper of
general circulation as defined by the laws of the State of California by the
Superior Court of the County of SANTA CLARA, State of California, under date
02/03/1922, Case No. 27844. That the notice, of which the annexed is a
printed copy, has been published in each regular and entire issue of said
newspaper and not in any supplement thereof on the following dates, to-wit:

Dated ftklOfi day of Ju*. 2010.

WhndaWbng

Acton CtyCwfc

7/18/10

SJ-19987899

I

07/16/2010

Executed on: 07/16/2010
At Los Angeles, California

A000001769855