Menlo Park City School District

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Measure C

To protect the excellent schools serving the children of our community by maintaining small class sizes and high quality teachers in the face of deep
state budget cuts and growing local enrollment, shall the Menlo Park City School District levy a 7-year parcel tax of $178 per year, adjusted annually for
inflation, to be spent only on teachers and essential educational programs, with an exemption available to individuals age 65 and over?

Full Text

MENLO PARK CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT
Measure C

LINDINGS

California’s precarious financial situation has already resulted in drastic
cuts in State education funding, and the worsening State budget situation
threatens ongoing funding of the Menlo Park City School District’s
programs in the foreseeable future.

The Menlo Park City School District will experience steep reductions in
State revenue for the 2010-11 school year and thereafter in subsequent
years.

The student enrollment in the Menlo Park City School District has increased
by 26% in the last six years and is conservatively projected to grow between
13 to 18% in the next seven years, requiring a substantial increase in funds
to employ additional teachers to maintain small class sizes.

Without additional community support, some of the most important
programs serving all students will not survive the dual challenge of a State
revenue reduction and growing enrollment.

The Board of Education of the Menlo Park City School District has
established the goals of preserving class sizes, retaining and employing its
exemplary teachers, and maintaining high quality educational programs for
all students.

Past community support has helped to build our excellent schools as
evidenced by election results, community polls, parent surveys and our
California standardized test results, which were at an all-time high this year.

The Board of Education has determined that in order to meet these
extraordinary challenges and to maintain excellent schools in the Menlo
Park City School District, it is necessary to authorize an enhancement to
the District’s special tax.

TERMS AND SUNSET

Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this Act, the
Board of Education of the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified
special tax (education parcel tax) in the maximum annual amount of $178
per parcel of taxable real property in the District, for a period limited to
seven years, commencing July 1, 2010.

To account for the impact of inflation on the cost of delivering the
classroom programs and student services supported by the education parcel
tax, this amount shall be adjusted annually for inflation by the change in the
“Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers San Francisco-Oakland-
San Jose (1982-84=100)” published by the U.S. Department of Labor,
Bureau of Labor Statistics. In the event this index is no longer published,
the Board of Education shall adopt a comparable index of general price

levels, as it shall reasonably determine. The Board of Education shall cause
the tax to be levied at the adjusted amount, or at such lesser amount in
any year in which the Board deems such reduced amount sufficient and
appropriate to meet the District’s budgetary needs, or believes such reduced
amount is appropriate in reaction to State budget changes.

PURPOSES

In order to sustain the District’s excellent schools in the face
of the State budget cuts and increasing student enrollment which reduces
the funds available for each student in the District, moneys raised under
this Act shall be authorized to be used only for the following purposes in
accordance with priorities established by the Board of Education and to the
extent of available funds:

1.	To employ and retain classroom teachers

2.	To maintain small class sizes

3.	To preserve essential educational programs

and to provide other supplemental financial support to the extent of
available funds to purchase instructional equipment, supplies and materials
for classroom instruction.

SENIOR CITIZEN EXEMPTION

In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community,
any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall
be exempt from the education parcel tax upon proper application to the
District. The exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures to be
prescribed by the Board of Education from time to time or otherwise as
required by law or by the San Mateo County Tax Collector.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the education
parcel tax, the Board of Education shall cause an account to be established
for deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1.
For so long as any proceeds remain unexpended, the Superintendent of
the District or Chief Financial Officer of the District shall cause a report
to be filed with the Board of Education no later than December 31 of each
year, commencing December 31, 2010, stating (1) the amount collected and
expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or description of
any programs funded. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year,
or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine,
and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other
appropriate routine report to the Board of Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this Act shall
constitute the specific purposes of the education parcel tax, and proceeds
thereof shall be applied only for such purposes.

Menlo Park City School District

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The education parcel tax shall be collected by the San Mateo
County Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner and shall be
subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the
Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate
for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of
real property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the San Mateo County Tax Collector. “Parcel of taxable
real property” shall exclude all parcels which are otherwise exempt from
or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year, and all
parcels which qualify for the senior citizen exemption provided by this Act.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels to the San
Mateo County tax collection officials which the District has approved for
an exemption in accordance with this Act. Eligibility for the senior citizen
exemption shall be determined solely by the District, and any taxpayer
wishing to challenge the District’s determination, or claim a refund or
reimbursement of taxes paid while eligible for the exemption, shall apply
directly to the District.

The San Mateo County Assessor’s determination of exemption
or relief for any reason of any parcel from taxation, other than through
the senior citizen exemption, shall be final and binding for the purposes
of the education parcel tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County
Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for correcting
a misclassification of property pursuant to Part 9 of Division 1 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures.
Taxpayers seeking a refund of any tax paid shall follow the procedures
applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and
Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters, by
approving this Act, concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and
clause of this Act has independent value, and the Board of Education and
the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every
other provision hereof. Upon approval of this Act by the voters, should
any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the
fullest extent allowed by law.

Impartial Analysis of Measure C

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school
district, upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a
qualified special tax for specified purposes.

Presently, the Menlo Park City School District annually levies
three special taxes totaling approximately $565 per parcel. One tax was
adopted by the voters in 2000 and the other two taxes were adopted by
voters in 2003. By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Menlo Park
City School District proposes to levy an additional special tax for a period
of seven years beginning July 1, 2010 and ending June 30, 2017. This
tax shall be at a rate of $178 per year per parcel on all taxable parcels
in the District. The new parcel tax would be adjusted annually for
inflation by the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco-Oakland-
San Jose Metropolitan Area. The Board of Trustees could lower the rate
if it determines that a reduced amount is sufficient to meet the District’s
budgetary needs.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District
which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
San Mateo County tax collection officials. Any property owner aged 65
years or older may qualify for an exemption from the special tax if that
property owner occupies the parcel. All property which would otherwise
be exempt from ad valorem property taxes will also be exempt from the
imposition of the tax.

The stated purposes of the special tax are to: maintain educational
programs; provide small class sizes; employ and retain teachers, and for
equipment, supplies and materials for classroom instruction.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special
account. An independent citizens’ oversight committee will be established
to monitor the expenditures of the parcel tax revenues. An annual report is
required that accounts for the parcel tax revenues collected and the manner
in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow an
additional special tax to be levied on property within
the boundaries of the Menlo Park City School District
for a period of seven years beginning July 1, 2010
and ending June 30, 2017 in an amount of $178
per year per taxable parcel. The special tax would
be adjusted annually for inflation by the Consumer
Price Index for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
Metropolitan Area The special tax would be used to:
maintain educational programs; provide small class
sizes; employ and retain teachers, and for equipment,
supplies and materials for classroom instruction.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the additional
special tax to be levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote

“yes.”

Menlo Park City School District

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Deep state budget cuts brought on by California’s precarious financial
situation and burgeoning enrollment in the Menlo Park City School District
threaten the high quality education our children receive at Laurel, Encinal,
Oak Knoll and Hillview Schools.

Measure C will raise the local funds necessary to preserve our essential
educational programs and retain teachers during these challenging times.

The facts:

•	Our schools will lose a projected $1.4 million in state revenue
next year and further cuts are anticipated.

•	Since 2000, enrollment has grown by over 30%—610 students—
and is projected to increase steadily over the next 7 years. And,
our schools do not receive any additional funds for each new
student.

•	The District has already reduced programs and increased class
sizes. This year, 124 new students enrolled and only one teacher
was hired.

If Measure C fails:

•	Classroom teachers will be laid off;

•	Class sizes will further increase;

•	Core educational programs—hands-on science, music, art,
foreign language, library and services to struggling students—
will be reduced or eliminated.

The District has already tightened its belt. Now we need Measure C to
minimize the impact to students as we face the challenges of state revenue
reduction and growing enrollment. At $178/parcel annually, the cost is
under 500 per day. Every dollar goes directly to our schools and cannot be
taken by the state. Measure C expires in 7 years and offers an exemption for
those 65 and older. All funds will be audited annually.

Our schools have achieved national recognition and student test scores
in the top 5% of California. Excellent teachers, outstanding academic
programs and ongoing community support have been the cornerstones of
our success. Yet, today we need your help to Keep Our Schools Strong.
Vote YES on Measure C.

For more information, please visit www.KeepOurSchoolsStrong.org.

John Sobrato

Chairman, Sobrato Organization

February 10, 2010

Brad Wentz

Local Business Owner

February 8, 2010

Kristy Roos-Taylor

Director, Menlo Atherton Co-operative Nursery School

February 9, 2010

Chris Thomsen

Sequoia Union High School District Trustee

February 9, 2010

Linda R. Meier

Former Member, Stanford Hospital Board

February 8, 2010

No Argument Against Measure C Filed