CITY OF OROVILLE
ORDINANCE NO. XXXX

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF OROVILLE, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING CHAPTER
24, ARTICLE VII OF THE OROVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE REDUCING THE EXISTING
TAX ON TELEPHONE AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES AND MODERNIZING THE
DEFINITIONS AND PROVISONS RELATING TO THE TELEPHONE AND CABLE

TELEVISION USERS TAX

The People of the City of Oroville do ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Section 24-127 of the Code of the City of Oroville is hereby amended to
read as follows:

Except where context otherwise requires, the definitions hereafter shall govern the
construction of this Article:

“Ancillary telecommunication services” means services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunication services, including but
not limited to the following services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that links two or more
participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision of a
telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include the
telecommunication services used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunication billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing
statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance" means an ancillary service of providing telephone
number information, and/or address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection with
one or more telecommunication services, which offers advanced calling features
that allow customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call
connections, including conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer to
store, send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any
vertical services that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize the
voice mail service

“Ancillary video services” means services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to electronic program guide
services, search functions, recording services, or other interactive services or

communications that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of
video programming.

“Billing Address” means the mailing address of the service user where the service supplier
submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

“City shall mean the City of Oroville.

“City Administrator” shall mean the City Administrator or his or her designee.

“Communication Services” means:	“telecommunication	services,”	“ancillary

telecommunication services,” “video services” and “ancillary video services.”

Fiscal year. The fiscal year of the city of Oroville, beginning on July 1st, and ending on June
30th of the following year.

“Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the same meaning and usage as set forth in the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations
thereunder or any successor statutes or regulations.

“Month” means a calendar month.

"Person" means, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust, common law trust,
estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock company, joint
venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic, and non-profit),
municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the City) cooperative, receiver,
trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.

“Place of Primary Use” means the street address representative of where the service
user's use of a communication service primarily occurs, which must be the residential
street address or the primary business street address of the customer.

Post-paid telecommunication service" means a telecommunication service obtained by
making a payment on a communication-by-communication basis either through the use of
a credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit
card, or by charge made to a service number which is not associated with the origination
or termination of the telecommunication service.

"Prepaid telecommunication service" means the right to access telecommunication
services, which must be paid for in advance and which enables the origination of
communications using an access number or authorization code, whether manually or
electronically dialed, and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the number
declines with use in a known amount.

"Private telecommunication service” means a telecommunication service that entitles the
customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of channels

between or among termination points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or
channels are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and
any other associated services that are provided in connection with the use of such channel
or channels. A communications channel is a physical or virtual path of communications
over which signals are transmitted between or among customer channel termination points
(i.e., the location where the customer either inputs or receives the communications).

"Service Address" means the residential street address or the business street address of
the service user. For a telecommunication or video service user, "service address" means
either:

(1)	The location of the service user’s communication equipment from which the
communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the communication is billed
or paid; or,

(2)	If the location in Subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (e.gmobile
telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address means the location of
the service user's place of primary use.

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” means the location
associated with the service number, or if unknown, the point of sale of the services.

“Service Supplier” means any entity or person, including the City, providing communication,
electric, gas or water service to a user of such services within the City.

"Service User3' (as a beneficiary of service) means a person required to pay a tax imposed
under the provisions of this Article.

“State" shall mean the State of California.

“Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement” shall mean the multi-state agreement
commonly known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, and
as it is amended from time to time.

"Tax Administrator1' means the Finance Director of the City or his or her designee.

“Telecommunication services” means:

a. The transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other
information or signals to a point, or between or among points, whatever the
technology used. The term “telecommunications services” includes such
transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are
used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission,
conveyance or routing without regard to whether such services are referred to as
voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal
Telecommunications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video
and/or data services that is functionally integrated with “telecommunication

services”. “Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or
billed: ancillary telecommunication services; intrastate, interstate, and international
telecommunication services;	mobile telecommunications	service;	prepaid

telecommunication	service;	post-paid telecommunication	service;	private

telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free
numbers designated by the Federal Telecommunications Commission); 900 service
(or any other similar numbers designated by the Federal Telecommunications
Commission for services whereby subscribers who call in to pre-recorded or live
service).

b. Telecommunication services shall also include without limitation, charges for:
connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change of telecommunication
services; late payment fees; detailed billing; central office and custom calling
features (including without limitation call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification
and three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging services; directory
assistance; access and line charges; universal service charges; regulatory,
administrative and other cost recovery charges; local number portability charges;
and text and instant messaging. Telecommunication services shall not include
digital downloads that are not ancillary telecommunication services, such as video
programming, music, ringtones, games, and similar digital products.

“Video Programming” means those programming services commonly provided to
subscribers by a “video service supplier” including but not limited to basic services,
premium services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on-demand,
origination programming, or any other similar services, regardless of the content of such
video programming, or the technology used to deliver such services, and regardless of the
manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed.

“Video Services” means “video programming” and any and all services related to the
providing, recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of “video programming” (including
origination programming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-
Video) using one or more channels by a “video service supplier”, regardless of the
technology used to deliver, store or provide such services, and regardless of the manner or
basis on which such services are calculated or billed, and includes ancillary video services,
data services, “telecommunication services”, or interactive communication services that are
functionally integrated with “video services”.

“Video Service Supplier" means any person, company, or service which provides or sells
one or more channels of video programming, or provides or sells the capability to receive
one or more channels of video programming, including any communications that are
ancillary, necessary or common to the provision, use or enjoyment of the video
programming, to or from a business or residential address in the City, where some fee is
paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that service, whether or not
public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or
communications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited to, multichannel

video programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 522(13) or any
successor statute or regulation]; open video systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of
cable television; master antenna television; satellite master antenna television;
multichannel multipoint distribution services (MMDS); video services using internet
protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video, which provide, among other things, broadcasting and
video on-demand), direct broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its
video services, now or in the future; and other suppliers of video programming or
communications (including two-way communications), whatever their technology.

"Electrical corporation, gas corporation and water corporation" have the same meaning,
except as hereinafter provided, as defined in Sections 218, 222, 241, respectively, of the
Public Utilities Code of the State of California, or any successor statute. "Water
Corporation" shall be construed to include any organization or municipality, including but
not limited to, a mutual water company, engaged in the selling or supplying of water to a
service user.

Section 2. Section 24-129 of the Code of the City of Oroville is hereby amended to
read as follows:

Section 24-129 Communication Services Tax

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using communication
services. The maximum tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of four and one-
half percent (4.5%) of the charges made for such services and shall be collected from the
service user by the communication services supplier or its billing agent. There is a
rebuttable presumption that communication services, which are billed to a billing or service
address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City's boundaries, and such
services are subject to taxation under this Article. There is also a rebuttable presumption
that prepaid telecommunication services sold within the city are used, in whole or in part,
within the City and are therefore subject to taxation under this Article. If the billing address
of the service user is different from the service address, the service address of the service
user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this Section, the term
“charges” shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or
nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the
communication services.

B.	Mobile Telecommunications Service shall be sourced in accordance with the sourcing
rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) or
any successor statute or regulation. The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to
communication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of
this Article, sourcing rules for the taxation of other communication services, including but
not limited to post-paid communication services, prepaid communication services, VoIP,
and private communication services, provided that such rules are based upon industry
custom and common practice that further administrative efficiency and minimize multi-
jurisdictional taxation (e.g., Streamline Sales and Use Tax Agreement).

C.	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Article, an
administrative ruling identifying those communication services, or charges therefore, that
are subject to or not subject to the tax of Subsection A. above.

D.	Charges for video services and ancillary video services shall include, but are not
limited to, charges for the following:

(1)	franchise fees and access fees (PEG);

(2)	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision, receipt, and recording of
video services;

(3)	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

(4)	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

(5)	all video programming services (e.g., basic services, premium services, audio
services, recording services, search services, video games, pay-per-view services,
or on-demand programming);

(6)	ancillary programming services (e.g., electronic program guide services,
recording and/or search functions, or other interactive services or communications
that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of the video
programming);

(7)	equipment leases (e.g., recorders, converters, remote devices); and,

(8)	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services, and
special services.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of communication services subject to tax
under this Section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the service
user has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such communication
services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of
such tax legally imposed in such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of
credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this Section.

F.	The tax on communication services imposed by this Section shall be collected from the
service user by the service supplier or person receiving payment for the services. The
amount of the tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and
must be received by the Tax Administrator, on or before the last day of the following
month.

G.	If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable
service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge
is subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable
standards, the portions of the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through
the service supplier's books and records kept in the regular course of business, and in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained
for tax purposes. If the service supplier offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable
services, and the charges are separately stated, then for taxation purposes, the values
assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall be based on its books and records

kept in the regular course of business and in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The service
supplier has the burden of proving the proper valuation and apportionment of the taxable
and non-taxable services.

H.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under
this Article, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor
of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent
permitted by state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial
interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any telecommunication service (including VoIP)
used by a person with a service address in the City, which service is capable of
terminating a call to another person on the general telephone network, shall be subject to a
rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes of
imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this Article. A
service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the City for tax collection and
remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any of the following:
maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent, affiliate, or subsidiary, a
place of business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees, independent
contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the City on a
continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is
broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the City or distributed from a location within
the City; or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the
City or through materials distributed in the City by means other than the United States
mail; or if there are activities performed in the City on behalf of the service supplier that are
significantly associated with the service supplier’s ability to establish and maintain a
market in the City for the provision of utility services that are subject to a tax under this
Article.

I.	Satisfaction of Tax Obligation by Service Users. Any person who pays the tax levied
pursuant to this Section with respect to any charge for a communication service shall be
deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant to former
Section 24-129 and Section 24-133 as codified immediately prior to adoption of this
ordinance with respect to that charge. Likewise, prior to April 1, 2011, any person who
pays the tax levied pursuant to former Section 24-129 and Section 24-133 as codified
immediately prior to adoption of this ordinance shall be deemed to have satisfied his or her
obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant to this Section with respect to that charge. The
intent of this paragraph is to prevent the imposition of multiple taxes upon a single utility
charge during the transition period from the prior telephone and cable telephone tax to the
new communication services tax (which transition period ends April 1, 2011) and to permit
communication service providers, during that transition period to satisfy their collection
obligations by collecting either tax.

J.	Collection of Tax by Service Supplier. Service Suppliers shall begin to collect the tax
imposed by this Section as soon as feasible after the effective date of the Section, but in
no event later than permitted by Section 799 of the California Public Utilities Code.

Section 3. Section 24.-133 is hereby repealed.

Section 4. Section 24-142 of the Code of the City of Oroville is hereby amended to
read as follows:

Section 24-142. REFUNDS

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Article
from a service user or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this section:

(a)	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid or paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator
under this Article from a service user or service supplier, provided that no refund shall be
paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian,
conservator, executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax
Administrator within one year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said
tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by written records
showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on behalf of a
class or group of taxpayers unless each member of the class has submitted a written claim
under penalty of perjury as provided by this subsection. It is the intent of the City Council
that the one year written claim requirement of this subsection be given retroactive effect;
provided, however, that any claims which arose prior to the commencement of the one
year claims period of this subsection, and which are not otherwise barred by a then
applicable statute of limitations or claims procedure, must be filed with the Tax Collector as
provided in this subsection within ninety days following the effective date of this ordinance.

(b)	The City Administrator, where the claim is less than the settlement authority
established in the Municipal Code, or the City Council where the claim is in excess of that
amount, shall act upon the refund claim within forty-five (45) days of the initial receipt of
the refund claim. Said decision shall be final. If the City Administrator/City Council fails or
refuses to act on a refund claim within the forty-five (45) day period, the claim shall be
deemed to have been rejected by the City Administrator/City Council on the forty-fifth
(45th) day. The Tax Administrator shall give notice of the action in a form which
substantially complies with that set forth in California Government Code Section 913.

(c)	The filing of a written claim pursuant to California Government Code Section 935 is a
prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to this
section shall be subject to the provisions of California Government Code Sections 945.6
and 946.

(d)	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, the Tax
Administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to a service supplier,
who has collected and remitted any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed
by this Article, to claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due
the City upon a subsequent monthly return(s) to the Tax Administrator, provided that: i)
such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from the date of
overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax; ii) the Tax Administrator is satisfied that
the underlying basis and amount of such credit has been reasonably established; and, iii)
in the case of an overpayment by a service user to the service supplier that has been

remitted to the City, the Tax Administrator has received proof, to his or her satisfaction,
that the overpayment has been refunded by the service supplier to the service user in an
amount equal to the requested credit.

Section 5. Section 24-134 of the Code of the City of Oroville is hereby amended to
read as follows:

Section 24-134. ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTES OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this Article.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent with
provisions of this Article for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and
enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of
such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office.
To the extent that the Tax Administrator determines that the tax imposed under this Article
shall not be collected in full for any period of time from any particular service supplier or
service user, that determination shall be considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator's
discretion to settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing methodology for
purposes of Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The Tax Administrator is not
authorized to amend the City's methodology for purposes of Government Code Section
53750 and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose the utility users’ tax in
full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or entering into agreements.

(c)	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make administrative
agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of this Article
and thereby: (1) conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so long
as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance with the general
purpose and scope of this Article; or, (2) to avoid a hardship where the administrative costs
of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such
agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office, and are voidable by the Tax
Administrator or the City at any time.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with the
requirements of this Article, of any person required to collect and/or remit a tax pursuant to
this Article. The Tax Administrator shall notify said person of the initiation of an audit in
writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period of review
shall not exceed a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of the written
notice by said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax
Administrator may make a deficiency determination for all taxes (and applicable penalties
and interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person to
the Tax Administrator. If said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to
enable the Tax Administrator to verify compliance with this Article, the Tax Administrator is

authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate
shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

(e)	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax
Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to this Article
for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the time for filing the
required statement has not already passed when the request is received. No penalty for
delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue during
said extension at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, prorated for any portion
thereof.

(f)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a right to
exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Article.

(g)	Notwithstanding any provision in this Article to the contrary, the Tax Administrator may
waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required to collect and/or remit for
failure to collect the tax imposed by this Article if the non-collection occurred in good faith.
In determining whether the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax Administrator shall
take into consideration the uniqueness of the product or service, industry practice or other
precedence. The Tax Administrator may also participate with other UUT public agencies
in conducting coordinated compliance reviews with the goal of achieving administrative
efficiency and uniform tax application determinations, where possible. To encourage full
disclosure and on-going cooperation on annual compliance reviews, the Tax Administrator,
and its agents, may enter into agreements with the tax-collecting service providers and
grant prospective only effect on any changes regarding the taxation of services or charges
that were previously deemed by the service provider, in good faith and without gross
negligence, to be non-taxable. In determining whether the non-collection was in good faith
and without gross negligence, the Tax Administrator shall take into consideration the
uniqueness of the product or service, industry practice or other precedence.

Section 6. Section 24-141 of the Code of the City of Oroville is hereby amended to
read as follows:

Section 24-141. RECORDS.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax
imposed by this Article to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have
been liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the
Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

(b)	The City, through the City Council, may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a
person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the
Tax Administrator to establish compliance with this Article, including the delivery of records
in a common electronic format on readily available media if such records are kept
electronically by the person in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an

alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the
due date provided in the administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to
such records outside the City on or before the due date, provided that such person shall
reimburse the City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect those
records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the
normal salary or hourly wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct the
inspection.

(c)	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement approved
by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer information pursuant to
California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.

(d)	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit
the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator the name, address
and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by
the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of
the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the
possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/or
remittance of such tax to the City .

(e)	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably denies the Tax
Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the information requested in an
administrative subpoena within the time specified, then the Tax Administrator may impose
a penalty of $500 on such person for each day following: i) the initial date that the person
refuses to provide such access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as set forth in
the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty
imposed under this Article.

Section 7. Section 24-147 of the Code of the City of Oroville is hereby added to read
as follows:

3.41.230 EFFECT OF STATE AND FEDERAL REFERENCE/AUTHORIZAION.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
Article shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that such
reference to a statute herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or to
any subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of
law with the duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of
interpretation would require voter approval under California law, or to the extent that such
change would result in a tax decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of a utility
service, or charge therefor, from taxation). Only to the extent voter approval would
otherwise be required or a tax decrease would result, the prior version of the statute (or
interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any application or situation that would not
require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the amended statute
(or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum possible extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this
Article is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no amendment
or modification of this Article shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and
the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the full
amount of the tax imposed under this Article.

Section 8. Effective Date. This Article shall become effective immediately upon the
date that this Ordinance is confirmed and approved by a majority of the voters of Oroville
at the Municipal General Election of November 2, 2010.

Section 9. Amendment or Repeal. Chapter 24, Article VII of the Code of the City of
Oroville may be repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of the people.
However, as required by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is
required for any amendment provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied
pursuant to this Ordinance. The People of the City of Oroville affirm that the following
actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

1.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this
Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

2.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some
prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this
Ordinance.

3.	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or excepted from the tax or
the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the
discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this Ordinance);
and

4.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the City had, for some
period of time, failed to collect the tax.

Section 10. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain
in full force and effect. The people hereby declares that they would have adopted each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or
portions of this Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

Section 11. Ratification of Prior Tax. The voters of the City of Oroville hereby ratify
and approve the past collection of the Telephone and Cable Television Users Tax under
Chapter 24, Article VII of the Code of the City of Oroville as it existed prior to the effective
date of this Ordinance.

Section 12. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of
this Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing where indicated.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED
by the people of the City of Oroville voting on the 2nd day of November, 2010

	Steve Jermgan, Mayor
APPROVED AS TO FORM:	ATTEST:

City Attorney

City Clerk