ORDINANCE 1151

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TRACY
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The City Council of the City of Tracy does ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. ADDITION TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE. Chapter 6.28 is added to Title 6
(Businesses, Professions and Trades) of the Tracy Municipal Code to read as follows:

“CHAPTER 6.28: TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Section 6.28.010. TITLE. This chapter shall be known as the “Tracy Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance.” The city of Tracy hereinafter shall be called "City." This
chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 6.28.020. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this
ordinance and approval by the voters.

Section 6.28.030. PURPOSE. This chapter is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this
tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board
of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

Section 6.28.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the Operative Date, the City
shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax chapter; provided, that if
the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the

Ordinance 1151
Page 2

operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the Operative Date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

Section 6.28.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) of the gross receipts of
any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on
and after the Operative Date of this chapter.

Section 6.28.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales
are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer
has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board
of Equalization.

Section 6.28.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the Operative Date of this chapter for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 6.28.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set
forth herein.

Section 6.28.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this chapter.

Ordinance 1151
Page 3

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Section 6.28.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor's permit shall not be required by this chapter.

Section 6.28.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county
in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee
at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a

Ordinance 1151
Page 4

declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of peijury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under
a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City

Ordinance 1151
Page 5

or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited
to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 6.28.120. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date
of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the
rate of tax imposed by this chapter.

Section 6.28.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State
or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected.

Section 6.28.140. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and
the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

Section 6.28.150. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS. All proceeds of the tax levied and
imposed under this chapter shall be paid into the General Fund for use by the City of
T racy.

Section 6.28.160. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
chapter shall expire five (5) years from the date the tax starts being collected.

Section 6.28.170. ANNUAL AUDIT. By no later than December 31st of each year, the
City’s independent auditors shall complete a financial audit report to include the revenue
raised and expended by this tax.

Section 6.28.180. RESIDENTS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Although not otherwise
required by law, the City Council shall, no later than March 1, 2011, establish a

Ordinance 1151
Page 6

Residents’ Oversight Committee to review the expenditure of the revenue from this
transactions and use tax. The Committee shall consist of five members to be appointed
by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. The terms of the Committee members
and their specific duties shall be established by resolution of the City Council.”

SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
City transactions and use taxes and shall not take effect until approved by the majority of the
voters voting at the general municipal election to be held on November 2, 2010.

SECTION 3. CERTIFICATION: PUBLICATION. Upon approval by the voters, the City Clerk
shall certify to the passage and adoption of this ordinance and shall cause it to be published
according to law and transmitted to the Board of Equalization.

The foregoing Ordinance 1151 was introduced at a regular meeting of the Tracy
City Council on the 3rd day of August, 2010, and finally adopted on the 17th day of August,
2010, by the following vote:

**********************

AYES:

COUNCIL MEMBERS: ABERCROMBIE, MACIEL, TOLBERT, IVES

NOES:

COUNCIL MEMBERS: TUCKER

ABSENT:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:	NONE

ABSTAIN:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:	NONE

ATTEST: