Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

San Mateo County Community College District

Measure G

To provide College of San Mateo, Skyline College and Canada College local funds the State cannot take away and ensure affordable, quality education
for students including: training for careers in nursing, healthcare, technology, engineering, sciences, police, firefighting; maintaining core academics in
reading, writing, math; preparing students for universities; and keeping libraries open, shall San Mateo County Community College District levy $34
per parcel annually for four years and establish Citizens’ Oversight, exempt seniors and prohibit proceeds for administrator salaries?

Full Text

SPECIAL TAX AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds of the
registered voters voting on the proposition, the District will be authorized
to levy a special tax of $34 per parcel for four years for the purpose of
financing programs identified below under the heading “STATEMENT
OF PURPOSES”, subject to all the accountability requirements specified
below. A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a
separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Assessor’s Office.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this
proposition in order that the voters and taxpayers in the District may be
assured that their money will be spent wisely. As required by the laws of
the State of California, the proceeds of the special tax will be deposited into
a special account established by the District and will be applied only to the
specific purposes identified below. The District has covenanted to have on
file with its governing board no later than January 1 of each year a report
stating the amount of the funds collected and expended and the status of
any project authorized to be funded.

In addition, the governing board of the District will appoint a Citizens’
Oversight Committee with responsibility to review the expenditures of
the District from the special tax to ensure the special tax is expended for
authorized purposes, and to prepare an annual report to the District and the
public concerning the expenditure of the special tax proceeds.

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

The statement shown below is a part of the ballot proposition and
must be reproduced in any official document required to contain the full
statement of the proposition.

The proceeds of the special tax will be expended to finance the
payment of costs and expenses of the District that are designed to achieve
the following purposes. The specific purposes of the special tax are
described as follows:

• Preserving job training programs in nursing, healthcare,
computers, engineering, green technology (such as solar and
wind energy), police and firefighting;

services to promote student achievement, graduation and access
to high-paying jobs;

•	Attracting and retaining qualified instructors;

•	Providing modern classroom technology and computer labs for
students;

•	Providing equipment and technology for science labs; and

•	Restoring funding to offer an adequate numbers of classes and
labs to meet growing student demand.

SENIOR EXEMPTION

In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community, any
parcel owned and occupied as a principal residence by a person 65 years of
age or older shall be exempt from the levy of the special tax upon proper
application to the District. The exemption shall be available pursuant to
procedures to be prescribed by the District or otherwise as required by law
or by the San Mateo County Tax Collector.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters
by approving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence
and clause of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees
and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of
every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters,
should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and
effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

•	Maintaining core academics, including Science, English,
Mathematics;

•	Keeping libraries open and maintaining library services;

•	Preparing students to transfer to four-year colleges and
universities;

•	Maintaining academic counseling programs and other student

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

San Mateo County Community College District

Impartial Analysis of Measure G	Argument	in	Favor	of	Measure	G

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the San Mateo County
Community College District proposes to levy a special tax for a period of
four years beginning July 1, 2010 and ending June 30, 2014. This tax shall
be at a rate of $34 per year per parcel on all taxable parcels in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District
which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from
the San Mateo County tax collection officials. Any property owner who
occupies the parcel as a principal residence and is aged 65 years or older
may qualify for an exemption from the special tax. All property which
would otherwise be exempt from ad valorem property taxes will also be
exempt from the imposition of the tax.

The stated purposes of the special tax are to: preserve job training
programs in nursing, healthcare, computers, green technology, police and
firefighting; maintain academic subjects including science, English and
mathematics; keep libraries open and maintain library services; prepare
students to transfer to four year colleges and universities; maintain
academic counseling programs and other student services; attract and retain
instructors; modernize classroom technology and computer labs; provide
equipment and technology for science labs; and offer classes and labs
necessary to meet student demand. None of the funds shall be used for
administrator salaries or benefits.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special account.
An independent citizens’ oversight committee will be established to monitor
the expenditures of the parcel tax revenues. An annual report is required
which accounts for the parcel tax revenues collected and the manner in
which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied on
property within the boundaries of the San Mateo County Community
College District for a period of four years beginning July 1, 2010
and ending June 30, 2014 in an amount of $34 per year per taxable
parcel. The special tax would be used for: preserving job training
programs in nursing, healthcare, computers, green technology, police
and firefighting; maintaining academic subjects including science,
English and mathematics; keeping libraries open and maintaining
library services; preparing students to transfer to four year colleges
and universities; maintaining academic counseling programs and other
student services; attracting and retaining instructors; modernizing
classroom technology and computer labs; providing equipment and
technology for science labs; and offering classes and labs necessary to
meet student demand.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the additional special
tax to be levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote

“yes.”

Due to severe state budget cuts, UC and CSU are drastically reducing
enrollment and raising tuition, making higher education inaccessible and
unaffordable for thousands of college-ready San Mateo County students.

College of San Mateo, Canada College and Skyline College provide the
only option for many local students to continue their education and prepare
for four-year universities or careers.

Recent state cuts exceeding $25 million to San Mateo Community College
District have forced significant reductions in faculty, staff and classes.
Currently, 14,000 San Mateo County students are on wait-lists and cannot
get the classes they need.

MEASURE G will provide funding the state government cannot take away
and expand access to affordable, quality education for our local students.

Measure G:

•	Protects job-training programs for careers in nursing, healthcare,
computers, technology, sciences, police and fire;

•	Maintains core academics such as reading, writing, and math;

•	Keeps libraries open and maintains library services;

•	Prepares students to transfer to 4-year colleges and universities;

•	Helps retain qualified instructors;

•	Provides modern classroom technology and computer labs for
students;

•	Provides equipment and technology for science labs; and

•	Restores funding to offer an adequate number of classes and labs
to meet growing student demand.

•	Provides additional classes for wait-listed students right away.

Measure G also contains important taxpayer protection provisions:

By law, NO MONEY FOR ADMINISTRATOR SALARIES OR
ADMINISTRATION.

CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE with yearly reports to the
community that ensure the funds are spent as promised.

A SENIOR EXEMPTION protects those on fixed incomes.

NO MONEY GOES TO THE STATE - every penny will benefit the
College of San Mateo, Canada College and Skyline College.

Please support our local community college students and join a bipartisan

coalition to VOTE YES ON MEASURE G. www. YE S onMeasureG. com	
/s/ Virginia Chang Kiraly  State Commissioner for Economic Developmtnt	March 16,2010
/s/ Mark Raffaelli  Former Police Chief, South San Francisco	March 17,2010
/s/ Ruth Nagler  Former Chair, Senior Focus	March 16, 2010
/s/ Glenna Vaskelis  President -Sequoia Hospital	March 15,2010
/s/ Patty Dilko  President, Academic Senate	March 17,2010

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

San Mateo County Community College District

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure G	Argument	Against	Measure	G

Measure G is the THIRD recent tax increase by this District. Vote NO!

While citizens struggle to absorb the largest tax increase in California
history, the San Mateo County Community College District wants more.

They want to increase taxes to cover recent lavish pay raises to
administrators. The District has 23 deans, which cost us $3.1 million last
year! Not to mention 160+ employees receiving over $100,000/year.

They say this tax won’t be used for salaries. But their own Argument says
more money “helps retain qualified instructors.” How? By freeing up other
money which can go to salaries.

They can’t find money to give “students the classes they need.” Yet they
found money to build (in their words) first class faculty housing ... with
stunning views ... and rents at half the market average.

Perhaps they should prioritize spending before raising our taxes!

The new faculty housing is also tax exempt, meaning they won’t pay their
new tax on us!

They say they’ll appoint a “citizens’ oversight committee.” But citizens’
oversight committees for K-12 funding have proven useless. They “review”
wasteful spending but are powerless to stop it.

Seniors, don’t rely on the “senior exemption.” Lawyers believe the
exemption is barred by state law. If a court agrees, you’ll pay too.

Renters, if you vote to increase your landlord’s property taxes, it will be
passed on to you.

A 2009 audit shows District property tax revenues have increased every
year, and DOUBLED over the past decade. Property taxes are high enough!

VOTE NO! http://nosmccdtax.com.

/s/ Jon Coupal	March 25, 2010
President, Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association	
/s/ Bill Baker	March 29, 2010
Former Councilmember, City of San Bruno	
/s/ Terrence Gossett	March 26, 2010
PRES. CPR	
/s/ Douglas A. McNea	March 25, 2010
President, SVTA	
/s/ Olga (Nina) P. Pellegrini	March 26, 2010
Individual	

Measure G is a property tax increase. Vote NO!

Last year the State raised income taxes, sales taxes, and car taxes - the
biggest tax increase in California history. Wasn’t that enough for State
community colleges? Now they want to raise property taxes too? Vote
NO!

Community colleges can charge students tuition. That’s fair, since many
students attending college in San Mateo County are not residents here.
They come from other parts of California, other states, even other countries.
Nearly half are over 25.

Community colleges already receive a share of our property taxes -
about $80 million a year! Besides that, in recent years local voters twice
approved expensive bond measures for this district, to be repaid through
higher property taxes.

We pay enough to subsidize the education of adults, many of whom don’t
live here, and don’t pay the tax themselves. Ironically, however, only 38%
goes to instructional activities. Most goes to salaries, some over $200,000/
year. This new tax would be available to raise salaries even higher.

Senior citizens beware! Measure G claims that seniors are exempt. They
hope you’ll vote to increase taxes on your neighbors if you don’t have to
pay. But legal experts believe the exemption is unlawful. If a court agrees,
you’ll pay too.

Now is not the time for more taxes. Thousands of employees are laid off or
furloughed. Self-employed business owners have less work, or have closed
altogether. Yet their property taxes are still due. Everyone who can’t afford
all these taxes will lose their homes.

Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association and Silicon Valley Taxpayers
Association have reviewed this measure and recommend a NO vote.

California is the most overtaxed state in America. When do we get to keep
some money to support our own families? Vote NO! For more information,
visit http://nosmccdtax.com.

Douglas A. McNea  President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association	March 18, 2010
Bill Baker  Former Councilmember, City of San Bruno	March 18, 2010
Harland Harrison  Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	March 18, 2010
Terrence D. Gossett  Pres, Californians for Property Rights	March 18, 2010
Jon Coupal  President, Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association	March 18, 2010

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

San Mateo County Community College District

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure G

Sacramento special interests and political fringe groups want to mislead
you about the future of College of San Mateo, Canada College and Skyline
College. Vote YES on Measure G.

FACT:	San	Mateo County Community College District has been

ravaged by $25 million in State budget cuts.

“Tuition [that goes directly to Sacramento] is rising; classrooms and labs
are crowded or unavailable. State budget cuts are making it harder for me
to graduate.”

Israel Calva, CSM engineering student

FACT: Measure G expands access to affordable, higher education for
local students.

“With 14,000 students on wait lists, many students can’t get the classes
they need.”

George Juelch, Canada College student; Iraq War Veteran

FACT: Measure G protects important job training programs.

“When I was laid off at age 46; my future looked bleak. I enrolled in Skyline
College’s biotech training program. After graduation, I immediately found
a good paying job with a bright future at a major biotech company in San
Mateo County.”

Jose Ruiz, Skyline College Alumnus

FACT: No funds from Measure G can be used for administrative
salaries.

“It’s illegal to use funds for administrator salaries.”

Marion McDowell, Former President, State Board of Education

FACT: Measure G establishes a senior exemption and a citizens’
oversight committee.

“Measure G includes a senior exemption, citizens’ oversight and mandates
every penny be spent on our local community colleges.”

Marian Mann, Vice President, Daly City Senior Citizens’ Club

Measure G will help local students continue their education and prepare for
universities or careers.

Vote YES on Measure G and visit www.YesonMeasureG.com

/s/ Virginia Medrano Rosales	March 24, 2010
Student Trustee	
/s/ Zenei Cortez, RN	March 25, 2010
President, California Nurses Association, San Bruno	
/s/ Brian M. Kelly	March 25, 2010
San Mateo Fire Chief (retired)	
/s/ Chris Rodriguez	March 26, 2010
Canada College Engineering Student	
/s/ Jim Wyatt	March 26, 2010
Chair, Bond Oversight Committee	