
<impartial> Controller's Statement on "AA"

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition AA:

Should the proposed measure be approved by the
voters, in my opinion, it would generate additional tax
revenue for the City of approximately $5.0 million
annually that can be used for projects related to street
repair, pedestrian safety and transit improvements.The
proposed measure would place an additional vehicle
license fee of $10 per vehicle registered in San
Francisco County. <impartialend>





<favor> Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition AA

Vote yes on Proposition AA to help fix our streets,
improve safety for pedestrians and bicyclists, and
make transit more reliable.

Proposition AA will provide the first new local funding
for transportation in decades. It is critically needed at a
time when state and federal transportation funds are
being cut.

Proposition AA funds will be used for transportation
projects only.The Expenditure Plan identifies projects
that can be completed quickly and efficiently,
including:

•	Street repairs

•	Pedestrian and bicyclist safety improvements

•	Transit reliability improvements

All Proposition AA funds will stay in San Francisco,
and cannot be raided for other uses. Proposition AA
requires annual reports to guarantee accountability to
the public about the use of the funds.

This is why the following Commissioners on the San
Francisco CountyTransportation Authority Board voted
to place Proposition AA on the ballot:

•	Ross Mirkarimi (Chair)

•	David Campos (Vice Chair)

•	Michela Alioto-Pier

•	Carmen Chu

•	Chris Daly

•	Bevan Dufty

•	Sean Elsbernd

•	Sophie Maxwell

Business, labor, environmentalists, and neighborhood
groups also support Proposition AA.

Vote yes on Proposition AA to improve streets,
sidewalks, and transit for everyone. <favorend>





<favorsigs> Ross Mirkarimi

Chair of the San Francisco CountyTransportation
Authority Board

David Campos (Vice-Chair), Carmen Chu*, Chris Daly,
Bevan Dufty, Sean Elsbernd

Commissioners, San Francisco CountyTransportation
Authority

Assemblyman Tom Ammiano
Assemblywoman Fiona Ma

Jake McGoldrick, Former Chair of the San Francisco
CountyTransportation Authority*

Sierra Club

Walk San Francisco

San Francisco Democratic Party <favorsigsend>






<rebutfavor> Rebuttal to Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition AA

STREET REPAIRS ARE (OR SHOULD BE) ONE OFTHE
BASIC DUTIES OF GOVERNMENT.

Our so-called "San Francisco City Fathers" seem to
have a lot of problems keeping our local streets in
good repair...even though that is one of their most
basic duties.

That is what our taxes are supposed to be used for.

Instead, they waste tax funds on unneeded political
appointees at City Hall and pressure group-driven
spending programs of very doubtful benefit to anyone.

A few years ago, a California Governor was recalled
for increasing motor vehicle registration fees. Our
"City Fathers" are slow learners. They have never met
a fee or a tax that they didn't want to increase. The sky
is the limit!

Not repairing the streets, it would seem, is an excuse
to raise another fee...even the unpopular motor vehi-
cle registration fee.

The supporters of Proposition AA suggest in their
arguments that they have suddenly "discovered" the
issue of repairing our City's streets.

The local governments of Athens, Alexandria, and
Rome made similar "discoveries" a couple of thousand
years ago!

Vote "NO!" on Proposition AA! <rebutfavorend>




<rebutfavorsigs> Dr. Terence Faulkner, J.D.

County Central Committeeman*

Arlo Hale Smith

Past BART Board President*

Doo Sup Park
State Senate Nominee <rebutfavorsigsend>





<against> Opponent's Argument Against Proposition AA

JUST WHAT WE "NEED"- ANOTHER FEE INCREASE:

A few years ago, California voters recalled a Governor
who increased auto registration fees.

The San Francisco "City Fathers" are slow learners.

Vote "NO!" on Proposition AA! <againstend>






<againstsigs> Dr. Terence Faulkner; J.D.

Past Member of California's Certified Farmers Advisory
Board. <againstsigsend>






<rebutagainst> Rebuttal to Opponent's Argument Against Proposition AA

Proposition AA will improve transportation for pedes-
trians, transit riders, drivers, and bicyclists.

Funds raised by Proposition AA will only be used for
transportation projects that benefit those paying the
fee and lessen the impact of driving on the environ-
ment.

Proposition AA funds will be locally controlled and
cannot be diverted by the State to other uses.

10 dollars per year is a reasonable fee for drivers to
pay for smoother streets, safer travel, and more reli-
able public transportation.

Vote yes on Proposition AA to make getting around
San Francisco easier and safer for everyone. <rebutagainstend>





<rebutagainstsigs> Ross Mirkarimi

Chair of the San Francisco County Transportation
Authority Board

Chris Daly; Sevan Dufty, Sean Elsbernd, Sophie
Maxwell

Commissioners, San Francisco County Transportation
Authority

Assemblyman Tom Ammiano

Sierra Club

Walk San Francisco

San Francisco Democratic Party <rebutagainstsigsend>





<paidfavor> Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition AA

Proposition AA provides an ongoing source of funding
to help Muni, support pedestrian safety and improve
our streets. Vote Yes! <paidfavorend>






<paidfavorsigs> San Francisco Tomorrow

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Tomorrow. <paidfavorsigsend>





No Paid Arguments AGAINST Proposition AA Were Submitted




<resolution> Proposition AA

RESOLUTION APPROVING A VEHICLE REGISTRATION FEE
EXPENDITURE PLAN (“EXPENDITURE PLAN”), MAKING
REQUIRED FINDINGS, SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS AT THE
GENERAL ELECTION SCHEDULED FOR NOVEMBER 2, 2010,

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE SAN FRANCISCO BUSINESS
AND TAX REGULATIONS CODE BY ADDING ARTICLE 23 TO (1)
ADOPT A $10 INCREASE IN THE ANNUAL VEHICLE
REGISTRATION FEE FOR EACH MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTERED
IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO, TO FUND
CONGESTION AND POLLUTION MITIGATION PROGRAMS AND
PROJECTS, (2) AUTHORIZE THE SAN FRANCISCO COUNTY
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (“AUTHORITY”) TO EXPEND
FEE REVENUE UNDER THE EXPENDITURE PLAN, (3)
AUTHORIZE THE AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH THE
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES FOR
COLLECTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE FEE REVENUE,

AND (4) AUTHORIZE THE AUTHORITY TO TAKE ALL STEPS
NECESSARY TO ADMINISTER THE EXPENDITURE PLAN AND
ALL PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS FUNDED BY THE FEE
REVENUE; AND APPROPRIATING UP TO $400,000 IN
PROPOSITION K FUNDS TO COVER THE COSTS OF PLACING
THE MEASURE ON THE BALLOT.

WHEREAS, In October 2009, the Governor signed into law
Senate Bill 83 (Hancock) (“SB83”), which authorizes a countywide
transportation planning agency to place a ballot measure before the
voters of the county to authorize an annual fee increase of up to $10 on
each motor vehicle registered within that county, to fund transportation-
related projects and programs that have a relationship or benefit to the
persons paying the fee and that mitigate motor vehicle congestion and
pollution in the county; and

WHEREAS, SB83 defines a county wide transportation planning
agency to include a congestion management agency (“CMA”); and

WHEREAS, The San Francisco County Transportation Authority
(“Authority”) is the CMA for the City and County of San Francisco; and

WHEREAS, Under SB83, to place a vehicle registration fee mea-
sure before the voters, the Authority Board of Commissioners (“Board”)
must adopt a ballot measure resolution by majority vote, and make
specific findings; and

WHEREAS, SB83 requires the Board to adopt an expenditure
plan allocating the proceeds from the vehicle registration fee increase, if
adopted by the voters, to transportation-related projects and programs
that have a relationship or benefit to the persons paying the fee. The
projects and programs may include those that (1) provide matching
funds for funding made available for transportation projects and
programs from state general obligation bonds, (2) create or sustain
congestion mitigation projects and programs such as improved transit
services through the use of technology and bicycle and pedestrian
improvements, local street and road rehabilitation, and improved signal
coordination and traveler information systems; and (3) create or sustain
pollution mitigation projects and programs; and

WHEREAS, Under SB83, the Authority may not use more than 5
percent of the fee revenues for administrative costs associated with the
funded projects and programs; and

WHEREAS, If the voters adopt the vehicle registration fee
increase, the California Department of Motor Vehicles (“DMV”) will
collect the fee upon the registration or renewal of a motor vehicle
registered in San Francisco, except for vehicles that are expressly
exempted under the Vehicle Code from paying registration fees. The
Authority would pay the DMV’s initial setup and programming costs
through a direct contract with the DMV, and could use the fee revenue

to cover those costs. The setup and programming costs would not count
against the 5 percent limit on using fee proceeds for administrative
costs; and

WHEREAS, If approved by the voters, the fee increase would
apply to any original vehicle registration and renewal registration
occurring on or after six months following adoption of the measure by
the voters; and

WHEREAS, In December 2009, by its Resolution No. 10-27, the
Authority Board approved a schedule and process to develop an expen-
diture plan consistent with the requirements of SB83 for proceeds gen-
erated from a maximum $10 increase in the annual vehicle registration
fee for vehicles registered in San Francisco, in anticipation of submit-
ting a ballot measure adopting up to a maximum $10 increase in the
annual vehicle registration fee to the San Francisco voters in the
November 2010 general election; and

WHEREAS, The timeline set by the Board and the relatively
small amount of funds anticipated from the fee increase (about $5
million annually) called for a very focused and streamlined approach to
developing the expenditure plan; and

WHEREAS, The Authority’s process included monthly updates
to the Board’s Plans and Programs Committee and Citizens Advisory
Committee (CAC) at noticed public meetings, and establishing a
stakeholder advisory panel and a sub-committee of the CAC to provide
input, as well as regular communications with the Authority’s Technical
Working Group; and

WHEREAS, Incorporating input from the Plans and Programs
Committee, the CAC and its sub-committee, the stakeholder advisory
panel, Technical Working Group, and others, the Authority developed a
set of guiding principles to inform development of the expenditure plan,
that among other considerations reflected the relatively small revenue
generation potential of the fee increase, as well as the intent and
requirements of SB83; and

WHEREAS, The guiding principles for preparing the expenditure
plan included limiting the expenditure plan to a very small number of
programmatic categories, and within those categories focusing on
smaller, high-impact projects that will provide tangible benefits in the
short-term; stretching limited revenues as far as possible by compli-
menting or enhancing projects that receive Proposition K and other
funds; providing a fair geographic distribution that takes into account
the various needs of San Francisco’s neighborhoods; and ensuring
accountability and transparency in programming and delivery; and

WHEREAS, Based on the guiding principles and input from the
various stakeholders, Authority staff developed a “SB83 Additional
Vehicle Registration Fee Expenditure Plan” (“Expenditure Plan”) that
includes three programmatic categories and sets the percentage of fee
revenues the Authority would expend on each category, as follows:
Street Repair and Reconstruction (50% of fee revenue), Pedestrian
Safety (25% of fee revenue), and Transit Reliability and Mobility
Improvements (25% of fee revenue). The Expenditure Plan also
permits the Authority to use up to 5 percent of the fee revenue to
administer projects and programs funded by the fee, and to use fee
revenues to reimburse it for costs incurred through a contract with the
DMV for setup and programming to collect and distribute the fee. A
copy of the Expenditure Plan is attached hereto and incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein; and

WHEREAS, The Expenditure Plan directs proceeds from the
vehicle registration fee increase toward transportation projects and
programs that leverage and/or complement the Proposition K program,
helping to achieve the leveraging assumptions in the Expenditure Plan;
and

WHEREAS, At its June 9, 2010 meeting, the Citizens Advisory
Committee unanimously approved a motion of support to recommend
adoption of the Expenditure Plan; and

WHEREAS, At its July 13, 2010 meeting, the Plans and
Programs Committee forwarded the item to the Authority Board without
recommendation to allow Commissioners to further consider the SB 83
Vehicle Registration Fee measure in the context of other local revenue
measures proposed for the November 2010 ballot; and

WHEREAS, The Authority retained a consultant that analyzed
the Expenditure Plan and found that the programs and projects in the
Expenditure Plan had a relationship or benefit to the persons paying the
fee. For example: Street Repair and Reconstruction - San Francisco’s
registered vehicle owners benefit directly from better-maintained streets
through reduced vehicle maintenance costs and enhanced driving
experience; Pedestrian Safety- Vehicle use is a significant cause of
pedestrian injuries and fatalities, and projects that improve pedestrian
safety mitigate that impact; Transit Reliability and Mobility
Improvements - Congestion caused by private vehicle use impedes
transit speed and reliability throughout San Francisco, and measures to
improve transit reliability and mobility mitigate the impact of that
congestion. A copy of the consultant’s “SB83 Vehicle Registration Fee
Benefit-Relationship Analysis” report, dated June 2, 2010, is incorporat-
ed by reference as if fully set forth herein. Based on the consultant’s
analysis and findings, the Authority has determined and finds that the
projects and programs to be funded by the annual $10 fee increase have
a relationship or benefit to the persons who will be paying the fee; and

WHEREAS, The Authority evaluated the projects and programs
in the Expenditure Plan and has determined and finds that they are con-
sistent with the regional transportation plan (“RTP”) (also known as
Transportation 2035), most directly supporting RTP objectives as fol-
lows: Street Repair and Reconstruction - Saves consumers repair costs
due to poor road conditions; Pedestrian Safety - Reduces injuries and
fatalities for all modes; and Transit Reliability and Mobility
Improvements - Creates new and safer ways to get around within San
Francisco communities by fostering walking and biking and connecting
communities to transit. The analysis regarding the Expenditure Plan’s
consistency with the RTP is included in the memorandum prepared by
Authority staff that accompanies this Resolution, dated June 11,2010,
and is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein; and

WHEREAS, The Authority has also reviewed the proposed proj-
ects and programs and has determined and finds that they are consistent
with the County wide Transportation Plan; and

WHEREAS, Consistent with adopted Authority policy for the
programming of funds for transportation projects, if it adopts the
Expenditure Plan, the Board needs to amend the Capital Improvement
Program of the Congestion Management Program to incorporate the
Expenditure Plan projects and programs; and

WHEREAS, The proposed vehicle registration fee increase and
the Expenditure Plan do not constitute a “project” as defined by the
California Environmental Quality Act because they simply create a gov-
ernment funding mechanism that does not involve a commitment to any
specific project, which may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment; and

WHEREAS, The costs of placing the measure authorizing impo-
sition of the annual $10 vehicle registration fee increase on the ballot,
including payments to the San Francisco Department of Elections and
payments for the printing of the portions of the ballot pamphlet relating
to the fee is estimated at an amount not to exceed $400,000. If the vot-
ers approve the vehicle registration fee increase measure, the Authority
may pay these costs from the proceeds of the fee. Those costs shall not
be counted towards the 5 percent limit on administrative costs, and at its
discretion, the Authority may amortize those costs over a period of
years; and

WHEREAS, Appropriation of Proposition K funds to pay for the
cost of placing the vehicle registration fee increase measure on the bal-
lot requires concurrent amendment of the 2009 Prop K Strategic Plan to
increase the amount of Proposition K funds available for the Authority’s
Prop K planning, programming and project delivery oversight efforts by
$400,000 in Fiscal Year 2010/11 (i.e., these funds would come off the
top rather than from any specific Expenditure Plan line); now therefore
be it

RESOLVED, The Authority hereby approves and adopts the
Expenditure Plan, and directs the Executive Director to submit the
Expenditure Plan to the San Francisco Department of Elections to
include as part of the legal text for this measure published in the voter
information pamphlet; and be it further

RESOLVED, That the election on this measure shall be held and
conducted according to the laws governing elections on local ballot
measures in the City and County of San Francisco, as set forth in the
Charter of the City and the San Francisco Municipal Elections Code;
and be it further

RESOLVED, The Authority hereby finds, as described above and
in the consultant’s “SB83 Vehicle Registration Fee Benefit-Relationship
Analysis” report, dated June 2, 2010, that the projects and programs to
be funded by the $10 vehicle registration fee increase have a relation-
ship or benefit to the persons who will be paying the fee; and be it
further

RESOLVED, The Authority hereby finds, as described above and
in the memorandum prepared by Authority staff dated June 11,2010,
that the projects and programs to be funded by the fee increase are con-
sistent with the RTP; and be it further

RESOLVED, The Authority finds that the projects and programs
to be funded by the fee are consistent with the County wide
Transportation Plan; and be it further

RESOLVED, That the Capital Improvement Program of the
Congestion Management Program is hereby amended to incorporate the
Expenditure Plan; and be it further

RESOLVED, That the Authority hereby amends the Prop K
Strategic Plan and appropriates $400,000 in Proposition K sales tax
funds to cover the costs of placing the measure authorizing adoption of
a $10 increase in the annual vehicle registration fee on the ballot,
including payments to the San Francisco Department of Elections and
payments for the printing of the portions of the ballot pamphlet relating
to the fee, and be it further

RESOLVED, That the Authority may use the proceeds of the
vehicle registration fee increase, if adopted by the voters, to pay for the
costs incurred in placing the measure on the ballot, and those costs shall
not be counted towards the 5 percent limit on administrative costs under
the SB83 and the Expenditure Plan. In its discretion, the Authority may
amortize these costs over a period of years; and be it further

RESOLVED, The Authority hereby submits an ordinance amend-
ing the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code by adding
Article 23 to adopt a $10 increase in the annual vehicle registration fee
for vehicles registered in the City and County of San Francisco, to the
electorate at the general election on November 2, 2010, as follows: <resolutionend>








<full> Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code
is hereby amended by adding Article 23, as follows:


SECTION 2301. TITLE.

__________This	ordinance	shall	be	known	as	the	“Vehicle Registration

Fee Ordinance.”

SECTION 2302. DEFINITIONS.

___________For	the	purpose	of	this	Vehicle	Registration	Eee	Ordinance.

the following words shall have the meanings set forth below.

(a)	“Authority. ” The San Francisco County Transportation
Authority.

(b)	“Board. ” The Authority Board of Commissioners.

(c)	“Expenditure Plan.” The “SB83 Additional Vehicle Registration
Eee Expenditure Plan.” approved by the Board on June 29. 2010.
to set the transportation projects and programs funded over the
next 30 years with the revenues of the fee increase, as well as
other allowable costs on which the Authority may spend the pro-
ceeds of the $10 vehicle registration fee increase authorized by
Section 2305. The Expenditure Plan specifies eligibility and
other conditions and criteria under which the proceeds of the fee
increase are available, and provides for the adoption of future
Expenditure Plan updates.

SECTION 2303. PURPOSE.

___________The	City	and	County	of	San	Francisco has very significant

unfunded transportation needs and this $10 vehicle registration fee
increase would provide a stable source of funding to meet some of those
needs. The fee is expected to generate approximately $5 million annu-
ally that the Authority would use to fund projects and programs under
the Expenditure Plan that mitigate congestion and pollution caused by
motor vehicles in San Francisco. These projects and programs could
include repairing local streets and roads. improving Muni's reliability.
pedestrian safety improvements. smart traffic signal technology to pri-
oritize transit and manage traffic incidents, and programs that encour-
age people to use more sustainable forms of transportation, e.g. transit.
bicycle, carpool or on foot. All of the projects and programs must have
a relationship or benefit to the persons paying the fee. The Expenditure
Plan contains guiding principles intended to. among other objectives.
focus on funding smaller, high-impact projects that will quickly provide
tangible benefits: provide a fair geographic distribution that takes into
account the various needs of San Francisco's neighborhoods; and
ensure accountability and transparency in programming and delivery.

SECTION 2304. EFFECTIVE DATE.

___________The	Vehicle Registration Eee Ordinance shall be effective at

the close of the polls in the City and County of San Francisco on the
day of the election scheduled for November 2. 2010.

SECTION 2305. INCREASE OF $10 IN THE ANNUAL MOTOR

VEHICLE REGISTRATION FEE.__________Beginning six months after the

Effective Date. the motor vehicle registration fee for all motor vehicles
registered in the City and County of San Francisco is increased by $10
each year, for each original vehicle registration and each vehicle regis-
tration renewal.

SECTION 2306. RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS OF THE
AUTHORITY.

___________The	Authority	shall	have	all	of	the	powers	set	forth	in

California Government Code Section 65089.20. all of the powers set
forth in the Expenditure Plan, and all powers incidental or necessary to
imposing and collecting the fee increase authorized under Section 2305.
administering the fee proceeds, the Expenditure Plan. and the projects
and programs under that Expenditure Plan, and delivering the transpor-
tation improvements in the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 2307. CONTRACT WITH DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR
VEHICLES.

____________Consistent	with	California	Vehicle	Code	Section 9250.4. the

Authority shall request and contract with the California Department of
Motor Vehicles for the Department of Motor Vehicles to collect and dis-
tribute to the Authority the fee imposed under Section 2305. upon the

original registration or renewal of registration of all motor vehicles
registered in the City and County of San Francisco.

SECTION 2308. USE OF PROCEEDS.

__________(a) The Authority shall use the proceeds of the fees under

Section 2305 solely for the projects. programs and purposes set forth in
the Expenditure Plan. Pursuant to California Government Code section
65089.20 and as specified in the Expenditure Plan, the Authority shall
use not more than five percent of the fee proceeds for administrative
costs associated with the programs and projects, including amending
the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 2309. SEVERABILITY.

__________If any of the provisions of this ordinance or the application

of those provisions to persons or circumstances shall be held invalid.
the remainder of those sections or the application of those provisions to
persons or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid
shall not be affected thereby.

Attachment: SB83 Additional Vehicle Registration Fee Expenditure
Plan

The foregoing Resolution was approved and adopted by the San
Francisco County Transportation Authority at a regularly scheduled
meeting thereof, this 20th day of July 2010, by the following votes:

Ayes: Commissioners Alioto-Pier, Campos, Chu, Daly,

Dufty, Elsbernd, Maxwell and Mirkarimi (8)

Nays: Commissioners Avalos, Chiu and Mar (3) <fullend>







<summary> Local Ballot Measures - Proposition AA	65
		

AA Vehicle Registration Fee

Shall the San Francisco County Transportation Authority add $10 to the
annual registration fee for vehicles registered in San Francisco to fund
transportation projects involving street repairs and reconstruction,
pedestrian safety, and transit reliability improvements?

Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee

The Way It Is Now: In 2009, the State adopted a law
authorizing local agencies, such as the San Francisco
CountyTransportation Authority (SFCTA), to propose to
voters an additional annual fee of up to $10 on vehicles
registered in their counties to pay for transportation
projects.

The Proposal: Proposition AA would amend the City's
Business andTax Regulations Code to add $10 to the
existing annual registration fee for vehicles registered
in San Francisco to fund transportation projects.This
increase would apply to vehicle registrations and
renewals beginning May 2, 2011.

Under the SFCTA's Expenditure Plan, proceeds from
the fee would be spent on projects in the following
categories:

•	Street Repairs and Reconstruction (50% of fee
revenue) - giving priority to streets with bicycle
and public transit routes. It also would include
projects such as curb ramps, bicycle
infrastructure, pedestrian improvements, and
other measures to slow or reduce traffic.

•	Pedestrian Safety (25% of fee revenue) - including
crosswalk improvements, sidewalk repair or
upgrade, and pedestrian countdown signals and
lighting.

•	Transit Reliability Improvements (25% of fee
revenue) - including transit stop improvements,
consolidation and relocation; transit signal
priority; traffic signal upgrades; travel information
improvements; and parking management projects.

The SFCTA would determine the specific projects and
could use up to 5% of the funds for administrative
costs.

A "YES" Vote Means: If you vote "yes," you want to
add $10 to the annual registration fee for vehicles reg-
istered in San Francisco to fund transportation projects
involving street repairs and reconstruction, pedestrian
safety, and transit reliability improvements.

A "NO" Vote Means: If you vote "no," you do not want
to add $10 to the annual registration fee for vehicles
registered in San Francisco to fund transportation
projects. 


SB 83 Additional Vehicle Registration Fee Expenditure Plan
(July 15,2010)

1.	INTRODUCTION

A.	SUMMARY

In late October, the Governor signed into law SB 83 (Hancock),
which authorizes congestion management agencies (CMAs) to
impose an annual vehicle registration fee increase of up to $10 on
motor vehicles registered within their respective counties. The
funds would have to be used for programs and projects having a
relationship to or benefiting the people paying the fee, and they
would have to be consistent with the regional transportation plan.

This Expenditure Plan identifies transportation improvements to
be funded from a new $10 increase in the vehicle registration fee
for vehicles registered in San Francisco. The projects and pro-
grams included in the Expenditure Plan are designed to be imple-
mented over the next 30 years. This Expenditure Plan includes
provisions for future updates to the Expenditure Plan beyond the
initial 30-year period. The Expenditure Plan includes investments
in three categories:

•	Street Repair and Reconstruction

•	Pedestrian Safety

•	Transit Reliability and Mobility Improvements

B.	DEVELOPMENT OF EXPENDITURE PLAN

This Expenditure Plan was developed through a multi-faceted
stakeholder outreach process by the San Francisco County
Transportation Authority (“Authority”) that included monthly dis-
cussions at the Authority’s Plans and Programs Committee and
Citizens Advisory Committee (“CAC”) and reports to the Authority
Board of Commissioners (“Board”). A subcommittee of the CAC
and a stakeholder advisory panel provided more detailed input into
the development of the Expenditure Plan, as did the Authority’s
staff-level Technical Working Group and other stakeholders
through direct contact with Authority staff. The roster of CAC and
stakeholder advisory panel members is included in Attachment 1.
The Board approved the Expenditure Plan on July 20, 2010.


The Expenditure Plan is a list of transportation projects and pro- 2.
grams that will be given priority for vehicle registration fee fund-
ing. As such, the Expenditure Plan shall be amended into the
Capital Improvement Program of the Congestion Management
Program, developed pursuant to section 65089 of the California
Government Code. These projects and programs are intended to
help implement the long-range vision for the development and
improvement of San Francisco’s transportation system, as articu-
lated in the San Francisco Long Range Countywide
Transportation Plan.

The County wide Transportation Plan is the City’s blueprint to
guide the development of transportation funding priorities and
policy. The major objectives of the Countywide Transportation
Plan are to enhance mobility and access throughout the City,
improve safety for all transportation system users, support the
City’s economic development and the vitality of our neighbor-
hoods, sustain environmental quality, and promote equity and
efficiency in transportation investments. The County wide
Transportation Plan is a living document, updated on a regular
basis to identify and address changing needs and regional trends,
and align them with available funding.

C.	GUIDING PRINCIPLES

The following principles were used to help guide development of
the Expenditure Plan:

•	All programs and projects must provide a documentable
benefit or relationship to those paying the fee.

•	Don’t spread the limited revenues too thin or too thick:
limit the Expenditure Plan to a very small number of pro-
grammatic categories, and within the categories focus on
smaller, high-impact projects that will provide tangible
benefits in the short-term.

•	Stretch limited revenues as far as possible by complement-
ing or enhancing projects that receive Prop K and other
funds (e.g. support leveraging of revenues)

•	Fill gaps in fund eligibility by supporting projects that are
ineligible, have very limited eligibility, or compete poorly
to receive Prop K or other discretionary funds.

•	Provide a fair geographic distribution that takes into
account the various needs of San Francisco’s neighbor-
hoods.

•	Ensure accountability and transparency in programming
and delivery.

D.	STRUCTURE

The Expenditure Plan is organized into seven sections. Section
1: Introduction provides background on the Expenditure Plan’s
purpose and how it was developed. Section 2: General
Provisions provides further context on the Expenditure Plans’
policies and administration. Section 3: Plan Summary contains
detailed descriptions of the three programmatic categories includ-
ed in the Expenditure Plan, and the types of items that are eligi-
ble for funding under each of them. Section 4: Benefit-
Relationship Finding addresses the requirement in SB83 that
there be a finding of benefit or relationship between the projects
and programs in the Expenditure Plan and those persons paying
the fee. Section 5: Consistency with Regional Transportation Plan
addressed the requirement in SB83 that the projects and programs
in the Expenditure Plan are consistent with the regional transpor-
tation plan. Section 6: Implementation Provisions describes the
process for prioritizing and allocating funds following adoption
of the Expenditure Plan. Section 7: Update Process describes the
mechanisms for developing updates to the Expenditure Plan
beyond the initial 30-year period.

GENERAL PROVISIONS

A.	Vehicle Registration Fee Revenues

The Expenditure Plan is fiscally constrained to the total
funding expected to be available if the voters approve the
$10 vehicle registration fee increase.

Total revenues are estimated over the next 30-year period
at approximately $150.0 million (escalated dollars or year
of expenditure (YOE) dollars), or approximately $5.0
million annually.

B.	Administration by the San Francisco County Transportation
Authority

The Authority, which currently serves as the Congestion
Management Agency for the City and County of San
Francisco, shall allocate, administer and oversee the expen-
diture of the vehicle registration fee revenues.

C.	Annual Report

The Authority shall draft a public annual report that sum-
marizes revenues collected; expenditures by programmatic
category, including distribution of funds within each pro-
gram and costs related to bonding, if applicable; adminis-
trative costs; and accomplishments and benefits realized by
the program.

D.	Use of Proceeds

The Authority shall use the proceeds of the fee solely for
the projects and programs and purposes set forth in the
Expenditure Plan. The Authority shall not provide funds in
advance, but shall reimburse a sponsor for eligible expendi-
tures incurred on approved projects and programs. Pursuant
to California Government Code section 65089.20, not more
than five percent of the fee proceeds shall be used for
administrative costs associated with the programs and proj-
ects, including the amendment of the Expenditure Plan.

Pursuant to California Vehicle Code section 9250.4, the
Authority may pay the initial setup and programming costs
identified by the California Department of Motor Vehicles
to collect the fee from the fee proceeds. Any direct contract
payment from the Authority to the Department of Motor
Vehicles shall be repaid, with no restriction on the funds, to
the Authority as part of the initial fee revenue available for
distribution. These setup and programming costs shall not
be counted against the five percent administrative cost limit
specified in California Government Code section
65089.20(d) and this Expenditure Plan.

The costs of placing the measure authorizing the vehicle
registration fee increase on the ballot, including payments
to the San Francisco Department of Elections and payments
for the printing of the portions of the ballot pamphlet relat-
ing to the fee increase measure, up to a maximum of
$400,000 advanced by the Authority, shall be paid from the
proceeds of this fee, and shall not be counted towards the
5% limit on administrative costs. In its discretion, the
Authority may amortize these costs over a period of years.

E.	Restriction of Funds

Vehicle registration fee revenues shall be spent on capital
projects rather than to fund operations and maintenance of
existing transportation services, unless otherwise explicitly
specified in the Expenditure Plan. Vehicle registration fee
revenues generated pursuant to this plan shall be subject to
the following restrictions:

i. No Substitution

Vehicle registration fee revenues shall be used to sup-
plement and under no circumstance replace existing
revenues used for transportation purposes. Proceeds


from the sale or liquidation of capital assets funded with
vehicle registration fee revenues shall be returned to
the Authority (in proportion to the contribution of
vehicle registration fee revenues to the total original
cost of the asset), for re-allocation to eligible expenses
within the categories from which funds were expended
for the original investment.

ii. No Expenditures Outside San Francisco

No vehicle registration fee revenues shall be spent out-
side the limits of the City and County of San
Francisco, except for projects that demonstrate there
will be a quantifiable benefit to the City and County’s
transportation program from the expenditure of funds
beyond the City and County line. Should transporta-
tion projects or services contemplated in the plan
require the participation of multiple counties for any
phase of project development or implementation, the
Authority shall work cooperatively with the affected
county or counties to ensure successful project
implementation.

F.	Environmental Review

The proposed vehicle registration fee increase and the
Expenditure Plan do not constitute a “project” as defined
by the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
because they simply create a government funding mecha-
nism that does not involve a commitment to any specific
project, which may result in a potentially significant physi-
cal impact on the environment.

Environmental reporting, review and approval procedures
as provided for under the National Environmental Policy
Act (NEPA), and/or CEQA, and other applicable laws shall
be carried out as a prerequisite to the implementation of
any project to be funded partially or entirely with vehicle
registration fee revenues.

G.	Eligible Recipients of Funds

Only public agencies are eligible to receive allocations of
vehicle registration fee revenues.

H.	Option to Bond

The Authority may issue bonds or collaborate with other
entities to issue bonds to expedite delivery of projects and
programs under this Expenditure Plan. Any bonds will be
paid with the proceeds of the fee and the costs associated
with bonding will be borne only by the programs in the
Expenditure Plan utilizing the bond proceeds.

I.	Severability of Expenditure Plan Projects and Programs
All projects and programs included in the Expenditure Plan
and included in the related Benefit-Relationship Finding
are discrete and severable. If any individual project or pro-
gram is deemed ineligible to receive vehicle registration fee
revenues, the Authority may reallocate the revenues for that
project or program to eligible projects and programs
according to the Expenditure Plan category distribution
formula.

3.	PLAN	SUMMARY

This Expenditure Plan identifies eligible expenditures for three pro-
grammatic categories. Programmatic categories are set up to address
allocation of funds to multi-year programs for a given purpose, such as
the maintenance of local streets and roads, for which not all specific
project locations can be anticipated or identified at the time of adoption
of the Expenditure Plan. Over the life of the Expenditure Plan, the
percentage allocation of vehicle registration fee revenues to each cate-
gory is as follows: Street Repair and Reconstruction - 50%, Pedestrian
Safety- 25%, and Transit Reliability and Mobility Improvements -
25%.

A.	STREET REPAIR AND RECONSTRUCTION

Repair and reconstruction of city streets to prevent deterioration
of the roadway system, based on an industry-standard pavement
management system designed to inform cost effective roadway
maintenance. Priority given to streets located on San Francisco’s
bicycle and transit networks and to projects that include complete
streets elements such as curb ramps, bicycle infrastructure, pedes-
trian improvements, and traffic calming. Includes design and con-
struction. Total Revenues: $75 million.

B.	PEDESTRIAN SAFETY

Improvements to the safety and usability of city streets for pedes-
trians. Priority given to projects that shorten crossing distances,
minimize conflicts with other modes, and reduce pedestrian haz-
ards. May include crosswalk improvements, sidewalk widening
and bulbouts, sidewalk repair, repair or upgrade of stairways con-
necting to transit stops, pedestrian countdown signals, pedestrian
lighting, and traffic calming. Includes design and construction.
Total Revenues: $37.5 million.

C.	TRANSIT RELIABILITY AND MOBILITY
IMPROVEMENTS

Improvements that promote transportation system connectivity,
reliability, and accessibility. Priority given to projects on corri-
dors with high transit ridership and those that support proposed
rapid transit. May include transit station and stop improvements,
transit stop consolidation and relocation, transit signal priority,
traffic signal upgrades, travel information improvements, way-
finding signs, innovative parking management pilots and projects,
and transportation demand management. Includes design and
construction. Total Revenues: $37.5 million.

4.	BENEFIT-RELATIONSHIP	FINDING

SB 83 requires that the ballot measure resolution shall contain a
finding of fact that the projects and programs to be funded by the
fee increase have a relationship or benefit to the persons who will
be paying the fee. This finding specifically considered the bene-
fit each Expenditure Plan category would provide to vehicle own-
ers, or how projects in the category would mitigate an impact
caused by the vehicle owners. The following is a summary of the
benefits and relationships of the projects and programs to be
funded by the fee and the persons who will be paying the fee for
each Expenditure Plan category.

•	Street Repair and Reconstruction: Street pavement deterio-
rates over time due to vehicle use, and vehicle owners ben-
efit directly from better-maintained streets through reduced
maintenance costs and enhanced driving experience.

Vehicle use is also a significant cause of pedestrian and
bicyclist injuries. Complete streets elements incorporated
into street repair and reconstruction projects improve safe-
ty, mitigating vehicles’ impact on pedestrians and cyclists.

•	Pedestrian Safety: Vehicle use is a significant cause of
pedestrian injuries, and projects that improve pedestrian
safety mitigate that impact.

•	Transit Reliability and Mobility Improvements: Congestion
caused by private vehicle use impedes transit speed and
reliability throughout San Francisco. Measures to improve
transit reliability and mobility mitigate the impact of that
congestion.

5.	CONSISTENCY	WITH REGIONAL

TRANSPORTATION PLAN

SB83 requires that the ballot measure resolution shall contain a finding
of fact that the projects and programs to be funded by the fee increase
are consistent with the regional transportation plan (RTP) adopted pur-
suant to Section 65080. The Authority has found that these projects
and programs are consistent with the Metropolitan Transportation
Commission’s RTP (also known as Transportation 2035 Plan).


6.	IMPLEMENTATION	PROVISIONS

Prior to allocation of any vehicle registration fee funds, the Authority
shall prepare, in close consultation with all other affected planning and
implementation agencies, a Strategic Plan for the use of the vehicle reg-
istration fee revenues, for review and adoption by the Authority Board.
The Strategic Plan shall include a detailed 5-year prioritized program of
projects to be funded from each of the Expenditure Plan categories. The
program goals shall be consistent with the Countywide Transportation
Plan and with the City’s General Plan.

The Strategic Plan’s 5-year prioritized program of projects shall, at a
minimum, address the following factors:

A.	Project readiness, including schedule for completion of environ-
mental and design phases; well-documented preliminary cost
estimates, and documented community support as appropriate.
Priority shall be given to projects that can implement the funded
phase(s) within twelve months of allocation.

B.	Compatibility with existing and planned land uses, and with
adopted standards for urban design and for the provision of
pedestrian amenities; and supportiveness of planned growth in
transit-friendly housing, employment and services.

C.	A prioritization mechanism to rank projects within each category,
addressing, for each proposed project:

•	Relative level of need or urgency

•	Cost Effectiveness

•	Number of beneficiaries (e.g. modes of travel that would
benefit)

•	Level of community support

•	Leveraging of other funds

•	A fair geographic distribution that takes into account the
various needs of San Francisco’s neighborhoods.

D.	Funding plan, including sources other than the vehicle registra-
tion fee.

The Authority shall conduct appropriate public outreach to ensure an
inclusive planning process for the development of the Strategic Plan, as
well as general plan referral or referral to any City Department or
Commission if required.

The Authority and project sponsors shall also identify appropriate per-
formance measures, milestone targets, and a timeline for achieving
them, to ensure that progress is made in meeting the goals and objec-
tives of the program. These performance measures shall be consistent
with the Authority’s Congestion Management Program requirements.

As part of the Strategic Plan development process, the Authority shall
adopt, issue, and update detailed guidelines for the development of pro-
grams of projects, as well as for the development of project scopes,
schedules and budgets.

7.	EXPENDITURE	PLAN UPDATE PROCESS

The Authority Board may adopt an updated Expenditure Plan anytime
after 15 years from the initial receipt of vehicle registration fee reve-
nues.

Attachment 1

SB 83 Citizens Advisory Subcommittee and Stakeholder
Advisory Panel Rosters

Citizens Advisory Committee

Jul Lynn Parsons, Chair*
Peter Tannen, Vice Chair*
Brian Larkin

Jacqualine Sachs*
Wendy Tran
Michael Ma
Chris Jones
Robert Switzer*
Glenn Davis
Fran Martin
Rosie West

* Denotes member of the CAC SB 83 Subcommittee
Stakeholder Advisory Panel

Jean Fraser
Gillian Gillett
Jim Haas
John Holtzclaw
Jim Lazarus
Gabriel Metcalf
Andy Thornley

 <summaryend>

