<resolution>  MEASURED
RESOLUTION NO. 10-125

RESOLUTION OFTHE SISKIYOU COUNTY
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
PROPOSING AN INCREASE OFTHE UNIFORM
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX OFTHE COUNTY OF SISKIYOU
BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS FOR APPROVAL
AND FIXING TIME FOR ELECTION

BE IT RESOLVED by the Siskiyou County Board of Supervisors
as follows:

Section 1. Authority. This Resolution is adopted pursuant to
Government Code Section 53720, et seq.

Section 2. Title. This Resolution may be cited as the “Uniform
Transient Occupancy Tax Resolution of 2010.”

Section 3. Proposal. California Revenue and Taxation Code
Section 7280 provides that counties may levy a tax on the privilege
of occupying a room or other lodging for not more than 30 days,
called a “transient occupancy tax,” and Section 8-4.03 of the Siskiyou
County Code establishes the County's transient occupancy tax at
eight percent (8%), which tax was last increased in 1990. It is proposed
that a general tax measure to increase the transient occupancy tax
to ten percent (10%) be submitted to the voters of the County of
Siskiyou at the election on Tuesday, November 2, 2010. Such action
is taken pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIC, §2(b) which
requires that any general tax be passed by a two-thirds vote of the
legislative body, and by a majority of the voters voting in an election
on the tax which is consolidated with a regularly scheduled general
election of members of the governing body.

Section 4. Rate to be Charged as a General Tax. The Siskiyou
County Board of Supervisors does hereby find that a general tax
which is an increase of the transient occupancy tax by two percent
(2%), and which will be collected by the operators of hotels as provided
in Title 8, Chapter 4 of the Siskiyou County Code, is in the best
interests of the County cf Siskiyou.

Section 5. The Siskiyou County Board of Supervisors finds and
declares that this is a general tax, for general governmental purposes,
and not a special or ad valorem tax.

Section 6. Method of Collection. This general tax, if confirmed
by the voters, shall be collected as provided in Title 8, Chapter 4,
Section 8-4.05 of the Siskiyou County Code.

Section 7. Election Date. The proposed general tax shall be
submitted to the voters of the County of Siskiyou at the election to
be included and consolidated with the election held on November 2,
2010. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given
and the County Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give
further or additional notice of the election, in time, form, and manner
as required by law.

Section 8. Effective Date of Tax. This Resolution, being for the
enactment and imposition of a general tax, shall be submitted to a
vote of the qualified voters at the general election of November 2,
2010. The tax shall become valid and binding if a majority of the
voters voting thereon vote in its favor at said election and shall become
effective on January 1, 2011.

Section 9. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this Resolution is for any reason held to be invalid,
unconstitutional, or otherwise unlawful, by the decision of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this Resolution, the application thereof, and
the general taxes imposed shall not be effected thereby but shall
remain in full force and effect, it being the intention of the voters to
adopt each and every section, subsection, part, clause, sentence, or
phrase, regardless of whether any other section, subsection, part,
clause, sentence, or phrase or the application thereof is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional. The Siskiyou County Board of Supervisors
hereby declares that it would have passed this Resolution and each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof irrespective
of the fact that one or more of the sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, or phrases be declared invalid, unconstitutional, or unlawful.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Siskiyou County
Board of Supervisors, pursuant to its right and authority, that the
following question is ordered submitted to the voters of the County
of Siskiyou and placed on the ballot for vote at the election to be
held November 2, 2010:

“Shall there be an increase of two percent (2%) to the general
tax for the privilege of transient occupancy in any hotel as
defined in Title 8, Chapter 4 of the Siskiyou County Code,
which increase would set the total transient occupancy tax at
ten percent (10%) of the rent charged by the operator.

YES______________________________ NO

Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given, and
the County Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to give further
or additional notice of the election, in time, form, and manner as
required by law.

IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED that the election be included and
consolidated with the election on November 2, 2010.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regularly scheduled meeting of the
Siskiyou County Board of Supervisors, this 8th day of June, 2010, by
the following vote:

AYES: Supervisors Armstrong, Kobseff, Cook, Bennett and
Valenzuela

NOES: None

ABSENT: None

ABSTAIN: None

s/ Marcia H. Armstrong
Chair, Board of Supervisors

ATTEST:

COLLEEN SETZER, Clerk
Board of Supervisors

By s/Wendy Winningham, Deputy <resolutionend>








<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE D

Presently the County of Siskiyou collects a transient occupancy tax
on occupancy in any “hotel” as defined by ordinance. The current
amount of such tax is eight percent (8%) of the rent charged by the

operator.

This measure, if approved by a majority vote of the people voting on
the question, would increase the amount to ten percent (10%).

According to law, the proceeds of these taxes may be placed in the
County General Fund without limitation on their use.

A “yes” vote favors passage of this measure, while a “No” vote is
against passage of this measure. <impartialend>








<impartialsigs> s/ Thomas P. Guarino
Siskiyou County Counsel <impartialsigsend>









NO ARGUMENT FOR OR AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED