Sample Ballot

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN BALLOT
Sonoma County

April 13, 2010

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

CITY

CITY OF COTATI

Yes

No

To prevent potential elimination of the Police
a Department; restore Police services to 2008
M levels; maintain financial viability of the City;
prevent cuts to street paving, pothole repair,
and park maintenance; restore City Hall service hours; return
Recreation Programs for seniors and youth; and maintain
other City services, shall the City of Cotati enact a one-half
cent sales tax, which will sunset in 5 years, and be subject to
annual financial audits and public expenditure reports?

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

49-A001

N

Sample Ballot

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF COTATI
MEASURE A

To prevent potential elimination of the Police Department; restore Police

A services to 2008 levels; maintain financial viability of the City; prevent cuts
to street paving, pothole repair, and park maintenance; restore City Hall
service hours; return Recreation Programs for seniors and youth; and
maintain other City services, shall the City of Cotati enact a one-half cent sales tax,
which will sunset in 5 years, and be subject to annual financial audits and public
expenditure reports?

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The proposed ordinance is the enactment of a local transaction and use tax (sales tax) for the pur-
pose of increasing revenues to assist the City in maintaining the financial viability of the City and
maintaining staffing and levels of service within the City.

The proposed ordinance contains findings that the City is experiencing an existing and immediate
funding crisis, which is the result of factors largely outside of its control and, that despite having taken
significant steps to reduce its operational costs as well as using available General Fund balance,
absent a new General Fund revenue source the budget deficit can only be met by further decreasing
police and other essential services. The ordinance finds that as a result, a fiscal emergency exists
within the City.

The ordinance, if enacted, would increase the sales tax rate by one-half of one percent (.5%) on and
after the effective date of the ordinance and would terminate in five (5) years unless extended by a
majority vote of the voters of the City. The ordinance requires the receipt and expenditure of revenue
from the tax to be included in the City’s annual audited financial statements which will be made
available to the public.

The tax is to be imposed on retailers for the selling of tangible personal property at retail and on the
storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any re-
tailer. The proposed ordinance includes certain exemptions and exclusions from the computation of
the amount of the transactions and use tax on certain transactions.

Certain amendments to the proposed ordinance must be approved by the voters of the City of Cotati
and include any amendments increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the
tax such that a tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not previously
subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs automatically by operation of amendments to
State law provided however that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this initiative); or extending the tax beyond the fifth anniversary of the operative date.

Since the ordinance does not limit the City’s use of the revenue from the tax it is a general tax. State
law authorizes the City to implement this ordinance upon approval by a simple majority of voters who
vote on the measure.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by the proposed ordinance shall expire on the fifth anniversary
of the operative date unless extended by a majority vote of the voters of the City.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-501

9585

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A, CONT.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the proposed ordinance. If you desire a copy
of the ordinance, please call the elections official’s office at 707-665-3622 and a copy will be
mailed at no cost to you.

si Richard R. Rudnansky
Cotati City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote Yes on Measure A

Measure A is a V2 cent sales tax measure with a five-year “sunset” date of 2015. This measure pro-
tects Cotati against State money grabs and provides Cotati with funds to meet its fiscal emergency,
sustain City services, and keep our Police department.

Yes on Measure A means that Cotati will keep 100% of the revenue generated by this local tax
measure. Currently, Cotatians receive from the State only 1 % of the 9% sales tax paid for goods and
services purchased in Cotati.

Yes on Measure A includes tough accountability provisions: annual audits and expenditure reports
to ensure that funds generated by the sales tax are used only for core City services: Police, essential
City administration, public works and maintenance of road and parks.

Yes on Measure A enables Cotati to survive the ongoing economic crisis. Over the past two years,
Cotati has slashed staffing levels by 33% and its operations budget by 23%. The City has lost 16
positions, including Police, Recreation and Public Works employees, leaving Cotati with only 30
employees. Police and other staff have taken 14% to 15% pay cuts.

Without a Yes on A, Cotati will run out of money in June 2010. Already, Cotati has reduced its City
Hall hours, eliminated all recreation staff and has only one police officer on duty for many hours each
week. More cuts will lead to unacceptable lower levels of service.

Join police, community leaders, business owners, long-time residents and other citizens of Cotati.
Vote Yes on A. Help Cotati keep its identity and unique character by maintaining police and essential
community services: four day city hall hours, park and street repairs, safe recreation facilities, neighbor-
hood patrols, crime prevention and domestic violence response. Let’s all make sure that Cotati stays
the place we love.

COTATI CITY COUNCIL	s/ Prudence K. Draper

si Robert Coleman-Senghor, Mayor	City	of	Cotati	Resident, Historian

si Rick Stewart	si	John	A. Dell ’Osso

Cotati Resident, Business Owner	City	of	Cotati	Resident

si Jason Kindt
Cotati Police Officer, Resident

NO REBUTTAL WAS SUBMITTED TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

CONT. NEXT PAGE

Sonoma County

49-502

9585

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

It is true, Cotati has seen tax revenues fall as the result of the recession. So have other communities
in Sonoma County. It is also true the City has cut expenses, postponed non-essential activities and
its employees have voluntarily taken pay cuts. However, the timing is wrong for a large sales tax
increase during this economic crisis. Especially when City Officials have been unwilling to consider
measures like shared services with other government units or contracting out services which might
avoid the need for proposing a large tax increase. The proposed sales tax increase, if approved,
would place the tax at 9.5 percent, the highest in Sonoma County. For example the Lowe’s store in
Cotati contributes a large percentage of the City’s sale tax revenue. Lowe’s competes with several
home improvement stores in nearby communities. Some shoppers, especially those making large
purchases like contractors and consumers who buy big ticket items may opt to buy at other retailers
in order to save on taxes. The high tax rate could negatively affect other city merchants. The net result
could be an even larger reduction in sales tax revenue for the City. We urge the voters to think about
the unintended consequences of voting for this tax increase.There are other options and this is not
the time to increase taxpayer’s burden. We suggest you choose to vote no on Measure A.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION
s/ Fred H. Levin, Executive Director

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Sonoma County Tax Payers’ Association’s argument is unfounded. Here are the facts:

While Cotati’s sister cities in Sonoma County are all under attack from the state and have lost sales
tax revenue, not all have suffered equally. Some like Sebastopol and Santa Rosa sought, and got,
the support of their citizens through tax measures. Cotati responded to the fiscal crisis with a 33%
reduction in staff and 14-15% in salary cuts for its personnel. To address future fund reductions in a
worsening economy, Cotati’s city leaders and management have also explored sharing and contract-
ing police and other services with Petaluma, Rohnert Park, and the County Sheriff’s Department and
continue to present their findings at citizen budget forums.

Yes, Cotatians are being asked to support their city. For V20 on a dollar, 500 on $100, Cotatians
can maintain a functioning city which in the past three years has seen the price of asphalt used to fill
potholes double and fuel for police cars rise 26%. During this same period, sales tax revenue
plunged 40%. With 1/20 sales tax revenues in its coffers-under its control-Cotati can survive the
nation’s and state’s economic crises, keep its police and maintain city operations and infrastructure.

This is the right time to ask for a V20 sales tax, and Cotatians are the right people to ask. Why?
Simple. Cotatians will see that a Yes on Measure A is a responsible and necessary strategy for
preserving Cotati’s unique character and independence.

COTATI CITY COUNCIL	s/ Russell Thomas

si Robert Coleman-Senghor, Mayor	Cotati	Businessman

si Ralph Dada	si	James	M. Leskar

Owner Cotati True Value	Michael's	Harley-Davidson,	Inc.	Cotati

si Ken Elie
Outdoor Pro Shop

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-503

9585

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO._________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF COTATI IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF COTATI:

SECTION 1. FINDINGS. The voters of the City of Cotati hereby find and declare as follows:

a.	The City is experiencing an existing and immediate funding crisis, which is the result of factors
largely outside of its control, including national economic trends, rapid increases in the cost of
employee retirement and health insurance benefits, decreases in revenue from existing taxes
and fees, increases in charges by the County of Sonoma, and unpredictable State takeaways
of local revenue.

b.	The City has taken significant steps to reduce its operational costs. It has eliminated over 10.9
FTE staff positions and dramatically reduced services, resulting in a 25% decrease in the
City’s General Fund budget, or $1.3 million.

c.	The City has used its available General Fund balance to bridge the structural budget deficit,
meaning it has used all available financial resources and will have none available to maintain
services.

d.	Because of changes in State law, particularly the approval of Propositions 62 and 218, the
City has very few means available for increasing General Fund revenue.

e.	Absent a new source of General Fund revenue, the City’s ability to maintain staff and service
levels is uncertain. Despite the dramatic decreases in services and staffing, as well as the use
of the City’s existing fund balance, the FY 09-10 budget contains a $500,000 structural deficit
that, absent new General Fund revenue, can only be met by further decreasing police and
other essential services.

f.	Unless staff and service levels are at least partially restored, public facilities and property will
not be properly maintained, public safety standards will degrade, crime and violence will
increase, the community will not have adequate and safe recreational opportunities, businesses
and families will be discouraged from moving to or remaining in Cotati, and the health, safety,
and welfare of the residents of Cotati will be endangered.

g.	Because of that threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, an emergency exists in the
City, as the term “emergency” is used in Article XIIIC, section 2(b) of the California Constitu-
tion. The City must immediately address that emergency by ensuring that the City has the
resources necessary to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare.

h.	The identified emergency necessitates that the City Council submit a tax measure to the
voters of Cotati at the April 13, 2010 election, even though such an election would not be
consolidated with a general election for a member of the Council.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-504

9585

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

i. Article XIIIC, section 2(b) of the California Constitution permits the City, in emergency situa-
tions unanimously declared by the Council, to seek voter approval for a general tax at an
election that is not consolidated with an election for a member of the Council.

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT OF CODE. “Chapter 3.05 Transactions and Use Tax” shall be added
to the Cotati Municipal Code and shall read as follows:

Section 3.05.010. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Cotati Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance. The City of Cotati hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable
in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3.05.020. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3.05.030. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax
at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not in-
consistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a mea-
sure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner
that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and
at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

Section 3.05.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have con-
tracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-505

9585

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

Section 3.05.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal prop-
erty at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of .5% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 3.05.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery
to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3.05.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of
.5% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 3.05.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in
this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.05.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE
TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State
of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City
or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization,
in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-506

9585

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision
of that code.

4. In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged
in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3.05.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be re-
quired by this ordinance.

Section 3.05.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county,
or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to opera-
tors of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under
the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the
City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery
by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this para-
graph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to
an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be
operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property
for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-507

9585

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for
any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C. There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or
other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers
of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time
for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly,
at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-508

9585

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who
registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D. Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for
a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect
to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to
the use tax.

Section 3.05.120. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordi-
nance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

The foregoing amendments shall not require voter approval.

The following amendments to this ordinance must be approved by the voters of the City of Cotati:
increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the tax such that a tax increase
would result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless
such amendment occurs automatically by operation of the preceding paragraph); or extending the
tax beyond the fifth anniversary of the operative date. The City Council may otherwise amend this
ordinance without submitting the amendment to the voters for approval.

Section 3.05.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the
State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under
this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount
of tax required to be collected.

Section 3.05.140. ANNUAL AUDIT AND PUBLIC REPORT. Annually the City Council retains an
independent auditor to conduct an audit of and provide audited financial statements for all of the
City’s financial activities. The auditor shall include an accounting of the revenue received from the
tax and expenditures thereof in the audited financial statements. The auditor’s report shall be pre-
sented to the Council and made available to the public. Additionally, the Director of Administrative
Services shall annually prepare and present to the Council and the public a report in conjunction with
the audit that reviews the status and performance of the programs and services funded wholly or
partially with proceeds of the tax.

Section 3.05.150. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance
shall expire on the fifth anniversary of the operative date, unless extended by a majority vote of the
voters of the City.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-509

9585

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

SECTION 5. PUBLICATION. The Clerk of the City of Cotati is hereby directed to cause the following
summary of the ordinance to be published by one (1) insertion in The Community Voice, a newspaper
of general circulation, published and circulated in the City of Cotati:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance adopts a one half-cent (.5%)
transactions and use tax on the sale or consumption of tangible personal property
within the City of Cotati. The tax shall terminate automatically upon the fifth anniver-
sary of the State beginning to collect it, unless extended by the voters.

IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the foregoing ordinance was duly approved by the following vote of
the Voters of the City of Cotati on April 13, 2010:

(insert vote)

IT IS HEREBY FURTHER CERTIFIED that the foregoing ordinance was adopted by Declaration of

the vote by the City Council of the City of Cotati on the  _day of .2010, by the following vote,

to wit:

COLEMAN-SENGHOR__________

GILARDI	_____

HARVEY	_____

LANDMAN	_____

ORCHARD	_____

Approved:______________________________________

Robert Coleman-Senghor, Mayor

Attest:_______________________________

Tamara Taylor, Deputy City Clerk

Approved as to form:

City Attorney

49-510

9585