Cutler-Orosi Joint Unified School District
Measure U

BALLOT TEXT

Recreational Programs for Youth

To develop a recreation department within the Cutler-Orosi area to promote youth
activities including sports, and other experiences that develop young people into active,
responsible citizens, shall Cutler-Orosi Joint Unified School District levy a tax of $89.00
per parcel annually, with annual cost of living adjustments, so long as the Cutler-Orosi
School Board oversees the program?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE U

Upon approval by two-thirds of qualified electors, Government Code section 50079 and
section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution authorize school districts to levy
a qualified special tax on all nonexempt parcels of real property within their territorial
boundaries for specified purposes.

If this measure is approved, the Cutler-Orosi Joint Unified School District (“District”)
will be authorized to levy a qualified special tax, in the amount of eighty-nine dollars
($89.00) per parcel (adjusted annually by the consumer price index), on all nonexempt
parcels of real property within the District’s boundaries until the District governing board
determines to terminate the levy. The stated purpose of the qualified special tax is to
establish and support a Recreation Department for Youth overseen by the Cutler-Orosi
School Board. The proceeds from the special tax levy may only be applied to the specific
purposes set out in the full text of the ballot measure.

If this measure is approved, the District must satisfy the accountability and reporting
requirements of sections 50075.1 and 50075.3 of the Government Code.

This measure makes no change to existing law. The electors entitled to vote on this
measure are the registered voters within the boundaries of the District. If the measure is
not approved by at least two-thirds of the votes cast on the measure, the measure will fail
and the qualified special tax will not be levied.

KATHLEEN BALES-LANGE
Tulare County Counsel

s/ Julia J. Roberts

Chief Deputy County Counsel

"The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or Measure U. If you
desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the elections official's office at
(559) 624-7300 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR
MEASURE U

Your Yes vote on Measure U will have a lasting, positive impact on our schools and on our
community. Measure U will provide children and members of the Cutler-Orosi community
with physical activities in a high-quality, safe environment. Measure U will support the
upkeep, maintenance and staffing for sports and recreation facilities that will be used by
students and community members.

As taxpayers, we agree that physical activity is important for the health of our children,
families, and community.

Measure U makes financial sense by:

Improving quality of life

Making the community a more desirable place to live
Protecting residential and business property value

Our school district has served the community well by creating beautiful schools, well-
maintained facilities, and positive programs for children and families. Your Yes vote helps
support and continue this important work.

Voting yes will have lasting, positive benefits. Measure U will maintain our schools as a focal
point of the community, improve quality life for all of us, and protect the value of our
community and homes.

Invest in our community. Vote Yes on Measure U!

s/ Sandra M. Williams
s/ Juliana Vinet Bullock
s/ Angela Ruiz Alvarez
s/ Martha Q. Muniz
s/ Patricia Marquez