NOVEMBER 2, 2010

GUBERNATORIAL
GENERAL ELECTION

POLLS OPEN
7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

TO SAVE TIME AT THE POLLS

✓ Mark your choices in this Sample Ballot and take it
with you to your polling place.

4/ If possible, vote during the “non-rush hours,”
mid-morning and/or mid-afternoon.

OR VOTE BY MAIL (APPLICATION ON BACK COVER)

SAMPLE BALLOT

AND VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

AVISO / NOTICE

Se puede obtener una traduccion en espanol del folleto de informacion para el votante,

llamando al 654-2664.

A Spanish translation of this voter information pamphlet is available by calling 654-2664.

Mark A. Lunn, Clerk Recorder/Registrar of Voters
Elections Division

800 S. Victoria Avenue, Ventura, CA 93009-1200 I 805-654-2664 I http://recorder.countyofventura.org/elections.htm

122

N VE 122-008

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS
MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS A LOS VOTANTES

STATE /ESTADO

REQUIRES THAT CERTAIN STATE AND LOCAL FEES BE APPROVED BY TWO-THIRDS VOTE. FEES INCLUDE THOSE THAT ADDRESS ADVERSE IMPACTS ON
^0 SOCIETY OR THE ENVIRONMENT CAUSED BY THE FEE-PAYER’S BUSINESS. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Fiscal Impact: Depending on decisions
by governing bodies and voters, decreased state and local government revenues and spending (up to billions of dollars annually). Increased transportation spending and state
General Fund costs ($1 billion annually).

REQUIERE QUE CIERTAS CUOTAS ESTATALES Y LOCALES SEAN APROBADAS POR EL VOTO DE LAS DOS TERCERAS PARTES. LAS CUOTAS INCLUYEN LAS
QUE ESTAN DIRIGIDAS A IMPACTOS ADVERSOS SOBRE LA SOCIEDAD 0 EL MEDIO AMBIENTE CAUSADOS POR LAS ACTIVIDADES COMERCIALES DE LOS
QUE PAGAN CUOTAS. ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL POR INICIATIVA. Impacto fiscal: Dependiendo de las decisiones de los organismos gubernamentales y de los
votantes, menores recaudaciones y gastos de los gobiernos estatal y locales (de hasta miles de millones de dolares anuales). Mayores gastos en transporte y mayores costos del Fondo
General del estado ($1,000 millones anuales).

fym ELIMINATES STATE COMMISSION ON REDISTRICTING. CONSOLIDATES AUTHORITY FOR REDISTRICTING WITH ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES. INITIATIVE ^ / CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Eliminates 14-member redistricting commission. Consolidates authority for establishing state Assembly, Senate, and  Board of Equalization districts with elected representatives who draw congressional districts. Fiscal Impact: Possible reduction of state redistricting costs of around $1 million over the next year. Likely reduction of these costs of a few million dollars once every ten years beginning in 2020. rym ELIMINA LA COMISION ESTATAL DE REDISTRIBUCION DE DISTRITOS. CONSOLIDA LA AUTORIDAD DE REDISTRIBUCION DE DISTRITOS EN REPRESENTANTES c I ELEGIDOS POR VOTACION. ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL Y LEY POR INICIATIVA. Elimina la comision de 14 miembros de redistribucion de distritos. Consolida la autoridad de establecer distritos para la Asamblea estatal, el Senado y la Directiva de Impuestos sobre Ventas, Uso y Otros en representantes elegidos por votacion encargados detrazar distritos del Congreso. Impacto fiscal: Posible reduccion de los costos del estado de redistribucion de distritos de cerca de $1 millon a lo largo del proximo ano. Probable reduccion de estos costos de varios millones de dolares una vez cada diez anos a partir de 2020.	YES . - SI “ m  NO A	 	  NO “ m
CITY/CIUDAD	
Shall an ordinance of the City of Port Hueneme, California, amending Article V, Chapter 4 of the Port Hueneme Municipal Code replacing the Telephone Users tax regulations VJI with Modern Communication Services tax regulations and reducing the tax rate from 4% to 3.75% be adopted?  iDebera una ordenanza de la Ciudad de Port Hueneme, California, enmendando el Artfculo V, Capftulo 4 del Codigo Municipal de Port Hueneme reemplazando reglamentos del impuesto de los Usuarios de Telefonos con reglamentos de impuestos para los Servicios de Comunicacion Moderna y reduciendo la tasa de impuestos del 4% al 3.75% ser adoptada?	YES . - SI “ m  NO . - NO “ m

Sample Ballot/

CITY OF PORT HUENEME
TITLE AND SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY*
MEASURE“G”

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PORT
HUENEME, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING
ARTICLE V, CHAPTER 4 OF THE PORT HUENEME
MUNICIPAL CODE REPLACING THE TELEPHONE
USERS TAX REGULATIONS WITH MODERN
COMMUNICATION SERVICES TAX REGULATIONS
AND REDUCING THE TAX RATE FROM 4% TO
3.75%

The purpose of this initiative is to place on the ballot
a proposed ordinance that would amend the existing
telephone utility user tax with an updated
communications tax. Currently, the rate for the
telephone utility user tax is 4%. If approved this
ordinance would amend the Port Hueneme
Municipal Code to change telephone utility user tax
related definitions and reduce the telephone tax rate
to 3.75%.

‘Pursuant to California Elections Code §9203, the City
Attorney has prepared the following title and summary of
the chief purpose and points of the proposed measure. If
you desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the City
Clerk’s office at (805) 986-6503 and a copy will be
mailed at no cost to you.

CITY OF PORT HUENEME
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY*
MEASURE“G”

Measure G proposes adopting an ordinance that
would amend the existing telephone utility user tax
with an updated communications tax.

The utility users tax (or “UUT”) was first adopted in
1994. It is imposed on all persons using electricity,
water, telephone, cable television, and gas. Measure
G would only affect the telephone tax of the UUT; it
does not affect the existing UUT applied to electrical,
gas, cable television, and water services.

Significant technological advances since 1994
rendered the telephone tax less effective in taxing
technology that replaced the telephone; the tax is
not imposed on communication services and devices
that have increased in usage since 1994. Unless
precluded by federal statute, Measure G would
update the existing UUT to apply the telephone tax
to all types of communication and video delivery
services (for example, without limitation, electronic
program guide services and search functions).

A federal statute currently prohibits local taxation of
internet and broadband services providing access to
the internet. Measure G would not apply to digital
downloads such as music, games and ringtones.

Currently, the rate for the telephone tax is 4%.
Measure G would reduce the telephone tax rate to
3.75%. Revenues from this telephone tax -
approximately $290,842 in fiscal year 2008 to 2009
- can only be used for the City’s general
governmental purposes. The tax cannot be
increased in the future without voter approval.

Several federal court decisions in other states make
it unclear whether the telephone tax, as currently
written, can be imposed on long distance, cellular
and bundled telephone services. Several California
cities with taxes similar to Port Hueneme’s are
currently litigating this issue. Should California courts
determine that telephone taxes are inapplicable to
those services, the telephone tax revenues would be
reduced. Adopting Measure G would protect the City
from an adverse outcome in any such litigation.

To be adopted, Measure G must be approved by a
simple majority of the voters in the city of
Port Hueneme.

A “yes” vote on Measure G favors the Measure.

A “no” vote on Measure G opposes the Measure.

‘Section 9280 of the California Elections Code allows the
City Attorney to prepare an impartial analysis for each
measure on the ballot.

N VE 122-017

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “G”

Lower the tax rate on your telephone bills, create tax
fairness, and protect essential services - VOTE YES
ONG!

Yes on G lowers the tax rate you now pay for
telephone service, from 4% to 3.75%.

Yes on G ensures that you are not paying more tax
than your neighbor for telephone use just because
you use different types of services or are billed
differently for them.

Yes on G preserves funding for the essential
services you and your neighbors rely on such as
police protection, street repair, park maintenance,
and library, recreation and senior services.

A “No” vote means your tax rate will remain at 4%,
your neighbor may pay less tax than you even
though you may use the same telephone carrier, and
you may lose valuable funding for the essential
services you use.

Measure G brings the telecommunications portion of
our Utility Users Tax into compliance with today’s
technology and Federal law. The taxation language
was written before the expansion of cell phone and
Internet technology. This outdated language has
resulted in landline users paying more tax than
bundled service cell phone and Internet telephone
users.

That means our City is losing revenue from new
telecommunications services and the tax burden is
shifted to basic landline telephone service users.
That’s not fair.

Measure G would align our law with new
developments in Federal law, which, for example,
prohibits cities from taxing broadband Internet
service and music downloads. Digital downloads
such as video programming, music, ringtones, and
games will NOT be taxed under Measure G.

Over 50 California cities have adopted similar
changes for the same reasons.

Please join us in voting for lower tax rates, tax
fairness, and the preservation of essential services
funding by voting YES ON G on November 2nd.

s/Norman E. Griffaw
Mayor

s/Maricela Morales
Council Member

s/Sylvia Munoz Schnopp
Mayor Pro Tern

s/Jonathan Sharkey
Council Member

s/Douglas A. Breeze
Council Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED.

N VE 122-018

ORDINANCE NO. 704

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PORT HUENEME,
CALIFORNIA, AMENDING ARTICLE V, CHAPTER 4 OF THE
PORT HUENEME MUNICIPAL CODE REPLACING THE
TELEPHONE USERS TAX REGULATIONS WITH MODERN
COMMUNICATION SERVICES TAX REGULATIONS AND
REDUCING THE TAX RATE FROM 4% TO 3.75%

The People of the City of Port Hueneme hereby ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. Article V, Chapter 4, Section 5402 of the Port Hueneme Municipal Code is
hereby amended to add the following definitions in alphabetical order thereto:

“Ancillary telecommunication services'’ means services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunication services, including but not limited to the
following services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service’'’ means an ancillary service that links two or more
participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision of a
telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include the telecommunication
services used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunication billing service” means an ancillary service of separately
stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone number
information, and/or address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection with one or
more telecommunication services, which offers advanced calling features that allow
customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections, including
conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer to store, send
or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any vertical services that
the customer may be required to have in order to utilize the voice mail service

“Ancillary video services” means services that are associated with or incidental to the provision or
delivery of video services, including but not limited to electronic program guide services, search
functions, or other interactive services or communications that are associated with or incidental to
the provision, use or enjoyment of video programming.

“Billing Address” means the mailing address of the service user where the service supplier submits
invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

“City” shall mean the City of Port Hueneme.

“City Manager” shall mean the City Manager or his or her designee.

“Communication Services” means: “telecommunication services,” “ancillary telecommunication
services,” “video services” and “ancillary video services.”

“Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the same meaning and usage as set forth in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations thereunder or any
successor statutes or regulations.

“Month” means a calendar month.

"Person" means, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust, common law trust, estate,
partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock company, joint venture, limited
liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic, and non-profit), municipal district or
municipal corporation (other than the City) cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other
representative appointed by order of any court.

“Place of Primary Use” means the street address representative of where the service user's use of a
communication service primarily occurs, which must be the residential street address or the primary
business street address of the customer.

Post-paid telecommunication service" means a telecommunication service obtained by making a
payment on a communication-by-communication basis either through the use of a credit card or
payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or by charge made
to a service number which is not associated with the origination or termination of the
telecommunication service.

"Prepaid telecommunication service" means the right to access telecommunication services, which
must be paid for in advance and which enables the origination of communications using an access
number or authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed, and that is sold in
predetermined units or dollars of which the number declines with use in a known amount.

"Private telecommunication service" means a telecommunication service that entitles the customer
to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of channels between or among
termination points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or channels are connected, and
includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other associated services that are
provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A communications channel is a
physical or virtual path of communications over which signals are transmitted between or among
customer channel termination points (i.e., the location where the customer either inputs or receives
the communications).

"Service Address" means either:

(1)	The location of the service user’s communication equipment from which the
communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the communication is billed or
paid; or,

(2)	If the location in Subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (e.g., mobile
telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address means the location of the
service user's place of primary use.

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” means the location associated
with the service number.

“Service Supplier” means any entity or person, including the City, providing communication, electric,
gas or water service to a user of such services within the City.

"Service User" (as a beneficiary of service) means a person required to pay a tax imposed under the
provisions of this Chapter.

"Tax Administrator" means the Finance Director of the City or his or her designee.

“Telecommunication services” means:

(1)	The transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other
information or signals to a point, or between or among points, whatever the technology used,
and includes broadband services [e.g., T-l, digital subscriber line (eDSL), fiber optic,
coaxial cable, and wireless broadband, including Wi-Fi, WiMAX, and Wireless MESH] to
the extent federal and/or state law permits taxation of such broadband services, now or in the
future. The term telecommunication services includes such transmission, conveyance, or
routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, code or
protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard
to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are
classified by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and
includes video and/or data services that are functionally integrated with telecommunication
services.

(2)	Telecommunication services include, without limitation the following services,
regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed: ancillary
telecommunication services; broadband service (to the extent federal and/or state law
permits taxation of such service); mobile telecommunication service; prepaid
telecommunication service (to the extent that it is practicable for the service supplier to
collect the correct tax imposed under this Article); post-paid telecommunication service;
private telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free
numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission); and 900 service (or any
other similar numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission for services
whereby subscribers who call in to pre-recorded or live service).

(3)	Telecommunication services shall also include without limitation, charges for:
connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change of telecommunication services;
late payment fees; detailed billing; central office and custom calling features (including
without limitation call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling);
voice mail and other messaging services; directory assistance; access and line charges;

universal service charges; regulatory, administrative and other cost recovery charges; local
number portability charges; and text messaging. Telecommunication services shall not
include digital downloads that are not ancillary telecommunication services, such as video
programming, music, ringtones, games, and similar digital products.

“Video Programming' means those programming services commonly provided to subscribers by a
“video service supplier” including but not limited to basic services, premium services, audio
services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on-demand, origination programming, or any
other similar services, regardless of the content of such video programming, or the technology used
to deliver such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated
or billed.

“Video Services” means any and all services related to the providing or delivering of “video
programming” (including origination programming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g.,
IP-TV and IP-Video) using one or more channels by a “video service supplier,” regardless of the
technology used to deliver or provide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which
such services are calculated or billed, and includes data services, “telecommunication services,” or
interactive communication services that are functionally integrated with “video services.”

“Video Service Supplier" means any person, company, or service which provides or sells one or
more channels of video programming, or provides or sells the capability to receive one or more
channels of video programming, including any communications that are ancillary, necessary or
common to the provision, use or enjoyment of the video programming, to or from a business or
residential address in the City, where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental
charges for that service, whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video
programming or communications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited to,
multichannel video programming distributors (as defined in 47 U.S.CA. Section 522(13) or any
successor statute or regulation); open video systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable
television; master antenna television; satellite master antenna television; multichannel multipoint
distribution services (MMDS); video services using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video,
which provide, among other things, broadcasting and video on-demand), direct broadcast satellite
(to the extent federal law permits taxation of its video services, now or in the future); and other
suppliers of video programming or communications (including two-way communications),
whatever their technology.

"Electrical corporation, gas corporation and water corporation" have the same meaning, except as
hereinafter provided, as defined in Sections 218,222,241, respectively, of the Public Utilities Code
of the State of California, or any successor statute. "Water Corporation" shall be construed to
include any organization or municipality, including but not limited to, a mutual water company,
engaged in the selling or supplying of water to a service user.

SECTION 2. Article V, Chapter 4, Section 5404 of the Port Hueneme Municipal Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:

Section 5404

Communication services tax

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using communication
services. The maximum tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of three and three-quarters
percent (3.75%) of the charges made for such services and shall be collected from the service user
by the communication services supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that
communication services, which are billed to a billing or service address in the City, are used, in
whole or in part, within the City's boundaries, and such services are subject to taxation under this
Chapter. If the billing address of the service user is different from the service address, the service
address of the service user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this Section,
the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or
nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the communication
services.

B.	Mobile Telecommunications Service shall be sourced in accordance with the
sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) or
any successor statute or regulation. The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to
communication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this
Chapter, sourcing rules for the taxation of other communication services, including but not limited
to post-paid communication services, prepaid communication services, and private communication
services, provided that such rules are based upon industry custom and common practice that further
administrative efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation.

C.	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter, an administrative
ruling identifying those communication services, or charges therefore, that are subject to or not
subject to the tax of Subsection A. above.

D.	Charges for video services and ancillary video services shall include, but are not
limited to, charges for the following:

(1)	franchise fees and access fees (PEG);

(2)	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of
communication services;

(3)	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

(4)	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

(5)	all video programming services (e.g., basic services, premium services, audio
services, video games, pay-per-view services, or on-demand programming);

(6)	ancillary programming services (e.g., electronic program guide services, search
functions, or other interactive services or communications that are ancillary, necessary or
common to the use or enjoyment of the video programming);

(7)	equipment leases (e.g., converters, remote devices); and,

(8)	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services, and
special services.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of communication services subject to
tax under this Section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the service user
has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such communication services, shall be
allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in

such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to
the City under this Section.

F.	The tax on communication services imposed by this Section shall be collected from
the service user by the service supplier or person receiving payment for the services. The amount of
the tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by
the Tax Administrator, on or before the last day of the following month.

G.	Except as otherwise provided by applicable federal or state law, if any nontaxable
charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable service charges on the customer
bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge is subject to tax unless the service supplier
identifies, by reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of the combined charge that are
nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier's books and records kept in the regular course of
business, and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and
maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges.

H.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under
this Section, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the
imposition, collection and/or remittance of the communication users tax to the fullest extent
permitted by state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation
or by statutory enactment. Any communication service (including VoIP) used by a person with a
service address in the City, which service is capable of terminating a call to another person on the
general telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial
nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and
remit a tax, under this Chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the
City for tax collection and remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited to, any of
the following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place
of business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees, independent contractors,
resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the City on a continuous, regular,
seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter
with the City or distributed from a location with the City; or advertises in newspapers or other
periodicals printed and published within the City or through materials distributed in the City by
means other than the United States mail. The City shall make available, upon request, an accurate
description of its jurisdictional boundaries based on street addresses and/or ZIP Plus Four, in an
electronic format. If a service supplier relies upon such information provided by City, it shall not be
responsible for any errors in taxation that may result.

I.	Satisfaction of Tax Obligation by Service Users. Any person who pays the tax
levied pursuant to this Section with respect to any charge for a communication service shall be
deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant to former Section 5404
and Section 5410 as codified immediately prior to adoption of this ordinance with respect to that
charge. Likewise, prior to April 1,2011, any person who pays the tax levied pursuant to former
Section 5404 and Section 5410 as codified immediately prior to adoption of this ordinance shall be
deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant to this Section with
respect to that charge. The intent of this paragraph is to prevent the imposition of multiple taxes
upon a single utility charge during the transition period from the prior telephone and cable

telephone tax to the new communication services tax (which transition period ends April 1,2011)
and to permit communication service providers, during that transition period to satisfy their
collection obligations by collecting either tax.

J.	Collection of Tax by Service Supplier. Service Suppliers shall begin to collect the
tax imposed by this Section as soon as feasible after the effective date of the Section, but in no
event later than permitted by Section 799 of the California Public Utilities Code.

SECTION 3.	Article	V, Chapter 4, Section 5410 of the Port Hueneme Municipal

Code is hereby repealed.

SECTION 4.	AMENDMENT	OR	REPEAL.	Article V, Chapter 4, Section 5404 of the

Port Hueneme Municipal Code may be repealed or amended by the City Council without
voter approval. However, voter approval is required for any amendment that would
increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Initiative as required by California
Constitution Article XI11C. Should the provisions of Government Code §§ 53720, etseq. or
California Constitution Article XI11C be repealed or amended, or interpreted by the courts
so that voter approval is not required for enacting this Initiative, then this Initiative will take
effect as provided for all other City ordinances and may be amended in the same manner
as all other City ordinances.

SECTION 5.	RATIFICATION	OF	PREVIOUS	TAX.	The	People	ratify and approve

the past collection of the Users Tax under Article V, Chapter 4, Section 5404 of the Port
Hueneme Municipal Code as it existed before the effective date of this Initiative.

SECTION 6.	INTERPRETATION.	This	Initiative	must	be	interpreted	so	as	to	be

consistent with all federal and state laws, rules, and regulations. If any section, sub-
section, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion of this Initiative is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision does
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Initiative. The voters declare that this
Initiative, and each section, sub-section, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion thereof,
would have been adopted or passed irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
sub-sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, part, or portion is found to be invalid. If any
provision of this Initiative is held invalid as applied to any person or circumstance, such
invalidity does not affect any application of this Initiative that can be given effect without
the invalid application.

SECTION 7.	SEVERABILITY.	If	any portion of this Initiative is held by a court of

competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the remainder of the initiative and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances will not be affected thereby. We the
People indicate our strong desire that: (i) the City Council use its best efforts to sustain
and reenact that portion, and (ii) the City Council implement this Initiative by taking all
steps possible to cure any inadequacies or deficiencies identified by the court in a manner
consistent with the express and implied intent of this Initiative, and then adopting or
reenacting such portion as necessary or desirable to permit the planning and development
of the Project.

SECTION 8.	CONSTRUCTION.	This	Initiative	must	be	broadly	construed	in	order

to achieve the purposes stated in this Initiative. It is the intent of the voters that the
provisions of this Initiative be interpreted or implemented by the City and others in a
manner that facilitates the purposes set forth in this Initiative.

SECTION 9.	ENFORCEABILITY. Repeal of any provision of the Port Hueneme

Municipal Code does not affect any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred before, or
preclude prosecution and imposition of penalties for any violation occurring before this
Initiative’s effective date. Any such repealed part will remain in full force and effect for
sustaining action or prosecuting violations occurring before the effective date of this
Initiative.

SECTION 10. VALIDITY OF PREVIOUS CODE SECTIONS. If this entire Initiative or
its application is deemed invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, any repeal or
amendment of the PHMC or other city ordinance by this Initiative will be rendered void and
cause such previous PHMC provision or other the city ordinance to remain in full force and
effect for all purposes

SECTION 11. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Initiative will enact and impose a general
tax. Accordingly, it will be submitted to a general election on November 2, 2010 for voter
approval. If a majority of voters vote in favor of this Initiative, it will become valid and
binding ten days after the date that the City Council certifies the election results in
accordance with Elections Code § 9217.

SECTION 12. The Mayor will sign this Initiative and the City Clerk will attest and
certify to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance if a majority of the voters voting in
the City’s general election on November 2, 2010 approve the proposition asking whether
the voters approve this Initiative.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED
and ADOPTED by the people of the City of Port Hueneme voting on the 2nd
day of November, 2010.

MAYOR

ATTEST:	APPROVED	AS	TO	FORM:

CITY CLERK

CITY ATTORNEY

Date: December 6,2010