<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W

Recently adopted state law authorizes local transportation planning agencies, with
voter approval, to impose a $10 annual vehicle registration fee to fund projects and
improvements for traffic congestion relief and air pollution mitigation. Sonoma
County Transportation Authority is proposing adoption of such a fee. The measure,
if approved, takes effect immediately, but the fee would not begin until six months
after approval by the voters. The fee would be collected by the Department of Motor
Vehicles at the time of registration of a vehicle, or with the annual registration
renewal, on all vehicles registered within the county limits, including cities.

Fees collected can be used only to pay for programs and projects to relieve conges-
tion and air pollution that bear a relationship to or benefit the owners of motor vehicles
subject to the fee. The Measure describes impacts on vehicle owners, such as delay,
wasted time, wasted fuel, and public health impacts. The Transportation Authority
has approved an Expenditure Plan, included in the ballot pamphlet as part of the
Measure, describing categories of projects and setting priorities to mitigate these
impacts. The Plan proposes that 23 percent of revenue collected be spent on street
improvements, such as pothole repair, bikeway paving and maintenance, traffic
signal maintenance and upgrades, signing and striping of roadways, and sidewalk
installation and repair. Twelve percent of the revenue would support Safe Routes
to School programs. Sixty percent is targeted for transit service expansion and to
develop and encourage ride-sharing efforts. Administrative costs associated with im-
plementing the Measure are limited to 5 percent of the revenue collected.

The Expenditure Plan can be amended from time to time, by two-thirds vote of the
Authority Board, after notice to all cities and the County. The Plan must be reviewed
and renewed or amended every ten years, at a publicly noticed hearing.

The Authority will provide public information including an annual budget, and an
annual report stating the revenues collected; the expenditures by programs, including
distribution of funds within each program and administrative costs; accomplishments
and benefits realized by the programs; and proposed projects for future funding,

If a majority of the voters voting on the Measure vote “Yes,” the Measure and the
fee will be approved. <impartialend>







<impartialsigs>
STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: s/ Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel <impartialsigsend>







<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

Vote Yes on Measure W to relieve traffic congestion and create local jobs. Measure
W will provide funding to repair ailing roads and fill potholes in Sonoma County.
Sonoma County has some of the worst roads in the state and this local revenue will
stay in Sonoma County to fix our roads.

Vote Yes on Measure W to fund transportation for senior citizens. Measure W will
help fund para-transit programs giving our elders the ability to live in the community
with dignity.

Vote Yes on Measure W to provide Safe Routes to Schools. Measure W will fund
programs that help children travel safely to school. Our children go to school to
learn, but too many of them face dangerous and even sometimes deadly trips to
school. Measure W will help get children to school in a safer manner.

Vote Yes on Measure W to preserve and expand bus service in Sonoma County.
Measure W will provide needed funding to keep buses running and expand routes
including commuter service to help get cars off the road and relieve traffic during
some of the worst traffic time periods of the day.

We support Measure W because it will provide much needed local funding for criti-
cal projects, programs and it will help our local economy. The best part of Measure
W is the money can't be taken away by Sacramento. Every dollar of Measure W
money that is dedicated to programs in Sonoma County will stay in Sonoma
County. Please Vote Yes on November 2nd to fix our roads and keep our county
moving. <favorend>







<favorsigs> s/ Noreen Evan's	s/	Gary L. Wysocky, Vice Mayor

State Assemblymember	Santa Rosa City Council

NORTH BAY LEADERSHIP COUNCIL	s/	Shirlee Zane

s/ Cynthia Murray, CEO	Sonoma	County Supervisor, 3rd District

s/ Kellie Noe, Trustee
West Sonoma County Union High School District <favorsigsend>









<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

Don't be fooled by the misleading ballot argument in favor of Measure W. The list of
so called benefits is nothing less than typical political pandering. It promises addi-
tional spending for projects that you are already paying a sales tax for through the
passage of Measure M.

The proponents of Measure W don't even bother to explain why they need more
money so soon after the voters approved Measure M just six years ago.

The provision to allocate funds for potholes only arose after a special interest group
did some poling that showed little interest by voters in the bike or bus projects.
Again, Measure M had sales tax money set aside for pothole repairs.

Buses are running at a fraction of their capacity and yet the County wants more
buses. Non governmental organizations are doing a great job of providing trans-
portation services to seniors.

The proponents indicate the best part of this Measure W is the money can't be
taken by Sacramento. What they don't tell you is with the passage of State Proposi-
tion 22 this fall, Sacramento will not be able to take transportation funding away
from local governments.

It is particularly interesting to note that the Citizens Advisory Committee to the
Sonoma County Transportation Authority advised against this measure, but the
County went ahead with it anyway.

What is being proposed is a permanent new tax to deal with a temporary revenue
problem. Voters should see through this charade and vote no on Measure W. <rebutfavorend>











<rebutfavorsigs> SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION

s/ Jack Atkin, President	s/ Fred Levin, Executive Director <rebutfavorsigsend>










<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W

When is enough, enough? Voters passed Measure M, a quarter cent sales tax, to
increase funds for transportation as recently as 2004. Now, a mere 6 years later
they're back asking for more, and in the midst of recession of historic proportions
that finds families and business across the county struggling with their own
budgets.

What's being proposed here is a permanent new tax, to deal with a temporary prob-
lem.

True, revenues for transportation projects that flow from sales tax receipts and
from the State and Federal governments may be reduced now due to the reces-
sion, but that will pass when the economy recovers.

The Sonoma County Transportation Authority tries to justify this ill conceived tax by
earmarking most of the funds for bicycle and walking paths, bus transit and of late
pothole repairs. We would hardly argue that these transportation activities are not a
good thing, but the real question to ask ourselves, is this the time to further burden
motor vehicle owners with an additional tax that has no expiration date?

Here is a fact to think about. The Sonoma County Transportation Authority's Citi-
zen Advisory Committee voted not to place this Measure on the ballot. Apparently
the committee's recommendation was ignored by the powers that be. The Sonoma
County Taxpayers' Association recommends a no vote on Measure W. <againstend> 









<againstsigs> SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION

s/ Jack Atkin, President	s/ Fred Levin, Executive Director <againstsigsend>









<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W

Voting Yes on Measure W means investing locally in efficient, accessible, green
transportation solutions for all Sonoma County residents, whether you drive, ride
public transit, travel by bike, walk or use some combination.

Voting Yes on Measure W means not relying on the state to meet our most urgent
transportation needs. Our local Sonoma County Transportation Authority has a
proven record of success in using our transportation dollars wisely on the projects
that are most important to us and provide the greatest value.

The previous measure approved by voters —Measure M in 2004— allowed us to
dramatically improve our quality of transportation. This measure widened and im-
proved Highway 101, including upgrading interchanges up and down the County. It
improved and maintained local streets and roads, and supported transportation
programs for seniors and the disabled.

The record is clear: Local funding has positively transformed how we get to work
and school, and how we visit family and friends. Measure W will continue our re-
cord of success — following a transparent process, revenue from Measure W will
stay in Sonoma County and be used for our local priorities.

Please join us and Vote Yes on Measure W to ensure we can continue to meet our
local transportation needs and priorities by reducing traffic congestion and getting
you where you need to go. <rebutagainstend>







<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Valerie Brown, Supervisor	SONOMA	COUNTY	CONSERVATION	ACTION

County of Sonoma	s/	Ken	Wells,	Chair

CLIMATE PROTECTION CAMPAIGN	s/ Lisa Wittke Schaffner, Executive Director

s/ Ann Hancock, Executive Director Sonoma County Alliance

SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1021
s/ Bill Steck, Director <rebutagainstsigsend>









<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W

Recently adopted state law authorizes local transportation planning agencies, with
voter approval, to impose a $10 annual vehicle registration fee to fund projects and
improvements for traffic congestion relief and air pollution mitigation. Sonoma
County Transportation Authority is proposing adoption of such a fee. The measure,
if approved, takes effect immediately, but the fee would not begin until six months
after approval by the voters. The fee would be collected by the Department of Motor
Vehicles at the time of registration of a vehicle, or with the annual registration
renewal, on all vehicles registered within the county limits, including cities.

Fees collected can be used only to pay for programs and projects to relieve conges-
tion and air pollution that bear a relationship to or benefit the owners of motor vehicles
subject to the fee. The Measure describes impacts on vehicle owners, such as delay,
wasted time, wasted fuel, and public health impacts. The Transportation Authority
has approved an Expenditure Plan, included in the ballot pamphlet as part of the
Measure, describing categories of projects and setting priorities to mitigate these
impacts. The Plan proposes that 23 percent of revenue collected be spent on street
improvements, such as pothole repair, bikeway paving and maintenance, traffic
signal maintenance and upgrades, signing and striping of roadways, and sidewalk
installation and repair. Twelve percent of the revenue would support Safe Routes
to School programs. Sixty percent is targeted for transit service expansion and to
develop and encourage ride-sharing efforts. Administrative costs associated with im-
plementing the Measure are limited to 5 percent of the revenue collected.

The Expenditure Plan can be amended from time to time, by two-thirds vote of the
Authority Board, after notice to all cities and the County. The Plan must be reviewed
and renewed or amended every ten years, at a publicly noticed hearing.

The Authority will provide public information including an annual budget, and an
annual report stating the revenues collected; the expenditures by programs, including
distribution of funds within each program and administrative costs; accomplishments
and benefits realized by the programs; and proposed projects for future funding.

If a majority of the voters voting on the Measure vote “Yes,” the Measure and the
fee will be approved. <impartialend>




<impartialsigs> STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel <impartialsigsend>





<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

Vote Yes on Measure W to relieve traffic congestion and create local jobs. Measure
W will provide funding to repair ailing roads and fill potholes in Sonoma County.
Sonoma County has some of the worst roads in the state and this local revenue will
stay in Sonoma County to fix our roads.

Vote Yes on Measure W to fund transportation for senior citizens. Measure W will
help fund para-transit programs giving our elders the ability to live in the community
with dignity.

Vote Yes on Measure W to provide Safe Routes to Schools. Measure W will fund
programs that help children travel safely to school. Our children go to school to
learn, but too many of them face dangerous and even sometimes deadly trips to
school. Measure W will help get children to school in a safer manner.

Vote Yes on Measure W to preserve and expand bus service in Sonoma County.
Measure W will provide needed funding to keep buses running and expand routes
including commuter service to help get cars off the road and relieve traffic during
some of the worst traffic time periods of the day.

We support Measure W because it will provide much needed local funding for criti-
cal'projects, programs and it will help our local economy. The best part of Measure
W is the money can’t be taken away by Sacramento. Every dollar of Measure W
money that is dedicated to programs in Sonoma County will stay in Sonoma
County. Please Vote Yes on November 2nd to fix our roads and keep our county
moving. <favorend>





<favorsigs> si Noreen Evans	si	Gary L. Wysocky, Vice Mayor

State Assemblymember	Santa Rosa City Council

NORTH BAY LEADERSHIP COUNCIL	s/	Shirlee Zane

si Cynthia Murray, CEO	Sonoma	County Supervisor, 3rd District

si Kellie Noe, Trustee
West Sonoma County Union High School District <favorsigsend>






<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

Don’t be fooled by the misleading ballot argument in favor of Measure W. The list of
so called benefits is nothing less than typical political pandering. It promises addi-
tional spending for projects that you are already paying a sales tax for through the
passage of Measure M.

The proponents of Measure W don’t even bother to explain why they need more
money so soon after the voters approved Measure M just six years ago.

The provision to allocate funds for potholes only arose after a special interest group
did some poling that showed little interest by voters in the bike or bus projects.
Again, Measure M had sales tax money set aside for pothole repairs.

Buses are running at a fraction of their capacity and yet the County wants more
buses. Non governmental organizations are doing a great job of providing trans-
portation services to seniors.

The proponents indicate the best part of this Measure W is the money can’t be
taken by Sacramento. What they don’t tell you is with the passage of State Proposi-
tion 22 this fall, Sacramento will not be able to take transportation funding away
from local governments.

It is particularly interesting to note that the Citizens Advisory Committee to the
Sonoma County Transportation Authority advised against this measure, but the
County went ahead with it anyway.

What is being proposed is a permanent new tax to deal with a temporary revenue
problem. Voters should see through this charade and vote no on Measure W. <rebutfavorend>




<rebutfavorsigs> SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION

s/ Jack Atkin, President	si Fred Levin, Executive	Director <rebutfavorsigsend>





<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W

When is enough, enough? Voters passed Measure M, a quarter cent sales tax, to
increase funds for transportation as recently as 2004. Now, a mere 6 years later
they're back asking for more, and in the midst of recession of historic proportions
that finds families and business across the county struggling with their own
budgets.

What’s being proposed here is a permanent new tax, to deal with a temporary prob-
lem.

True, revenues for transportation projects that flow from sales tax receipts and
from the State and Federal governments may be reduced now due to the reces-
sion, but that will pass when the economy recovers.

The Sonoma County Transportation Authority tries to justify this ill conceived tax by
earmarking most of the funds for bicycle and walking paths, bus transit and of late
pothole repairs. We would hardly argue that these transportation activities are not a
good thing, but the real question to ask ourselves, is this the time to further burden
motor vehicle owners with an additional tax that has no expiration date?

Here is a fact to think about. The Sonoma County Transportation Authority's Citi-
zen Advisory Committee voted not to place this Measure on the ballot. Apparently
the committee's recommendation was ignored by the powers that be. The Sonoma
County Taxpayers' Association recommends a no vote on Measure W. <againstend>




<againstsigs> SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION

s/ Jack Atkin, President	si Fred Levin, Executive Director <againstsigsend>






<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W

Voting Yes on Measure W means investing locally in efficient, accessible, green
transportation solutions for all Sonoma County residents, whether you drive, ride
public transit, travel by bike, walk or use some combination.

Voting Yes on Measure W means not relying on the state to meet our most urgent
transportation needs. Our local Sonoma County Transportation Authority has a
proven record of success in using our transportation dollars wisely on the projects
that are most important to us and provide the greatest value.

The previous measure approved by voters —Measure M in 2004— allowed us to
dramatically improve our quality of transportation. This measure widened and im-
proved Highway 101, including upgrading interchanges up and down the County. It
improved and maintained local streets and roads, and supported transportation
programs for seniors and the disabled.

The record is clear: Local funding has positively transformed how we get to work
and school, and how we visit family and friends. Measure W will continue our re-
cord of success — following a transparent process, revenue from Measure W will
stay in Sonoma County and be used for our local priorities.

Please join us and Vote Yes on Measure W to ensure we can continue to meet our
local transportation needs and priorities by reducing traffic congestion and getting
you where you need to go. <rebutagainstend>





<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Valerie Brown, Supervisor SONOMA COUNTY CONSERVATION ACTION
County of Sonoma	s/	Ken	Wells,	Chair

CLIMATE PROTECTION CAMPAIGN	s/ Lisa Wittke Schaffner, Executive Director

si Ann Hancock, Executive Director Sonoma County Alliance

SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1021
s/ Bill Steck, Director <rebutagainstsigsend>





<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE W

I.	Title

This ordinance shall be known as the “Sonoma County Transportation Improve-
ment Measure.”

II.	Purpose

Pursuant to California Government Code section 65089.20, the Authority hereby
authorizes the placement of a majority vote ballot measure before the voters of
Sonoma County to authorize a ten dollar ($10) increase in the fee for motor vehicle
registration. If approved, the fee would be imposed in perpetuity for transportation-
related projects and programs in Sonoma County that provide a benefit to or
otherwise have a relationship with the persons who will be paying the fee and that
are consistent with the regional transportation plan adopted pursuant to California
Government Code section 65080. The Board of the Authority hereby adopts a
Vehicle Registration Fee Expenditure Plan (“Expenditure Plan”) attached hereto
and incorporated herein, allocating the revenue from the fee to transportation-
related programs and projects that provide a benefit to or have a relationship with
the persons who pay the fee. The Expenditure Plan shall be attached to the
measure to be approved by the voters.

Expenditure Plan programs and projects include but are not limited to those that
have the following purposes:

1.	Providing matching funds for funding made available from other
sources.

2.	Creating or sustaining congestion mitigation programs and projects,
as they are defined in California Government Code section
65089.20(c)(2)(A).

3.	Creating or sustaining pollution mitigation programs and projects, as
they are defined in California Government Code section
65089.20(c)(2)(B).

III.	Findings

Based on the information presented to the Authority at a duly noticed public
hearing, the Authority makes the following findings:

a.	Each registered motor vehicle driven on the streets and highways of
Sonoma County contributes to congestion. Traffic congestion occurs when the
number of vehicles using a transportation facility exceeds the capacity of that facil-
ity. Individual drivers contribute to congestion in the following ways:

1.	Increased desire to travel or increased vehicles on roadways increase
congestion.

2.	Peak HourTravel: when a high proportion of travelers attempt to use
the system at the same time, congestion is worsened.

3.	Vehicle Merging Maneuvers: motorists entering and leaving the traf-
fic flow contribute to increased congestion.

b.	Congestion on streets and highways imposes the following impacts on
community members, drivers, businesses and commuters:

1.	Wasted time: reducing economic productivity and efficiency.

2.	Delay: resulting in late arrival, resulting in lost business or other
losses.

3.	Reliability: travelers are unable to estimate travel time accurately,
leading drivers to allocate more time to travel, and less time on pro-
ductive activities.

4.	Wasted fuel: increasing air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions,
plus consuming a finite resource (fossil fuel) in an unproductive man-
ner limits availability for other energy needs.

5.	Increased wear and tear on vehicles due to increased vehicle idling:
imposing additional vehicle maintenance costs for persons and busi-
nesses.



6.	Public health impacts: increased stress and air quality related health
impacts.

7.	Emergencies: congestion may interfere with the efficient and timely
deployment of emergency vehicles and services.

8.	Spillover traffic from highways and main arterials to secondary roads
and side streets: can have local safety and quality of life impacts.

c.	The programs, services and projects to be funded by the fee will partially
mitigate the effects of traffic congestion and congestion induced pollution, and
will produce a benefit to the vehicle owners subject to the fee by reducing commute
time, decreasing individual auto related expenses, and improving air quality
through reduced pollution. Studies indicate that reducing congested roadway
traffic volumes even 5% can reduce travel delay by 10-30%. Increased transit and
bicycle/pedestrian use take an estimate of 1 vehicle off the road for each bike
or walking trip and from .25 to .70 vehicles off the road for each transit rider. Antici-
pated congestion improvements include but are not limited to:

1.	Reduced delay, and improved productivity and economic efficiency

2.	Increased travel reliability

3.	Reduced fuel consumption and vehicle maintenance costs

4.	Improved air quality

5.	Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions

6.	Improved public health

7.	Better provision of emergency services

8.	Reduced impacts to local neighborhoods from spillover traffic

d.	This program would also provide funding for improving, maintaining and
rehabilitating local roads. Fee payers benefit from having roadways safely main-
tained and operating .efficiently. It is difficult for vehicles and bicycles to safely
negotiate poorly maintained roadways (i.e., low pavement quality, faded striping,
signal operation problems, debris on shoulders). Programs that improve local road
operations benefit the fee payer by identifying and mitigating recurring congestion
problems.

e.	The cost of the programs and projects listed in the Expenditure Plan equal or
exceed the anticipated revenue to be raised by the fee. The projects and programs
to be funded by the fee increase have a relationship or benefit to the persons who
will be paying the fee. Based on the facts set forth below, the congestion relief and
air quality improvement benefits to each motor vehicle owner are predicted to
equal or exceed the per vehicle annual fee.

The economic benefit of reduced congestion can be calculated using the following
methodologies:

DELAY: The U.S. Federal Highway's Administration currently estimates that each
hour of delay (time spent traveling under congestion) costs us roughly $12.
Sonoma County currently experiences 53,226 hours of delay each day (estimated
financial cost $638,712/day or $233 million/year). A reduction of 1138 hours/day
(2% reduction) in daily delay would provide a congestion reduction benefit equal to
or exceeding the $10 per vehicle per year proposed fee.

TRIPS: Congestion reduction benefits per reduced automobile-mile are esti-
mated to be worth roughly $0.25 per mile during urban peak hour conditions. The
average trip length in Sonoma County is 13.08 miles per trip, therefore each vehicle
trip reduced would save all county commuters roughly $3.27. A reduction of 4,176
trips from the 1,720,290 current Sonoma County daily vehicle trips (or a 0.24% re-
duction in daily vehicle trips) will provide a congestion reduction benefit equal to the
$10 per vehicle per year proposed fee. 200,798 daily trips are currently made using
transit or non-motorized modes. The additional 4,176 trips would represent a 2%
increase in transit or non-motorized trips.

f.	The programs and projects to be funded by the fee are consistent with the
regional transportation plan adopted pursuant to Government Code section 65080.

IV.	Duration of the Fee

The Fee, if so approved, would be imposed annually unless repealed.

V.	Contract with Department of Motor Vehicles

The Authority shall contract with the Department of Motor Vehicles to collect the
Fee imposed pursuant to California Government Code section 65089.20 upon the
registration or renewal of registration of a motor vehicle registered in the County,
except those vehicles that are expressly exempted under this code from the pay-
ment of registration fees, pursuant to California Vehicle Code section 9250.4 as
approved by the voters of Sonoma County.

VI.	Use of Proceeds

The proceeds of the Fee governed by this ordinance shall be used solely for
the programs and purposes set forth in the Expenditure Plan and for the adminis-
tration thereof. The Authority will administer the proceeds of the Fee to carry out
the mission described in the Expenditure Plan. The Authority will attempt to main-
tain geographic equity in the allocation of funds over successive five year periods.
Pursuant to California Government Code Section 65089.20, not more than five
percent of the Fee shall be used for administrative costs associated with the pro-
grams and projects, including the amendment of the Expenditure Plan.

Pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 9250.4, the initial setup and program-
ming costs identified by the Department of Motor Vehicles (Department) to collect
the Fee upon registration or renewal of registration of a motor vehicle shall be paid
by the Authority from the Fee. Any direct contract payment with the Department by
the Authority shall be repaid, with no restriction on the funds, to the Authority as
part of the initial revenue available for distribution. The costs deducted pursuant to
this paragraph shall not be counted against the five percent administrative cost
limit specified in California Government Code Section 65089.20(d).

The costs of placing the measure authorizing imposition of the Fee on the ballot,
including payments to the County Registrar of Voters and payments for the printing
of the portions of the ballot pamphlet relating to the Fee, advanced by the Authority,
shall be paid from the proceeds of this Fee, and shall not be counted towards the
five percent limit on administrative costs. The costs of preparing the Expenditure
Plan, advanced by the Authority, shall be paid from the proceeds of the Fee subject
to the five percent limit on administrative costs. At the discretion of the Authority,
these costs may be amortized over a period of years.

The proceeds of the Fee shall be spent only inside the limits of Sonoma County.
None of the proceeds, outside of the costs incurred by the Department of Motor
Vehicle to collect the fee, shall be taken by the State.

VII.	Implementing Agency

The Sonoma County Transportation Authority (“Authority'1), pursuant to California
Government Code Section 65089.20, shall place a majority vote ballot measure
before the voters to authorize a $10 per year increase in the motor vehicle regis-
tration fee. If so approved, the Authority will collect and administer the Fee in
accordance with this Ordinance and the Expenditure Plan.

VIII.	Amendments to the Expenditure Plan

It is expected that the Expenditure Plan will be amended from time to time. Amend-
ment to the Expenditure Plan shall be approved by a two-thirds vote of the Authority.
All jurisdictions within the County will be given a minimum of 45 days notice and
opportunity to comment on any proposed Expenditure Plan amendment prior to its
adoption.

A required review and renewal of the Expenditure Plan will be performed every ten
years. Staff will prepare a draft Expenditure Plan, a public hearing will be held and
the Authority will adopt a new plan by a two-thirds vote. Unless and until a revised
Expenditure Plan receives support by two-thirds of the Authority the previous
Expenditure Plan will remain in effect.

IX.	Severability

If any provision of this Ordinance or the Expenditure Plan or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordi-
nance and the Expenditure Plan and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected. If any proposed expenditure
based on this Ordinance or the Expenditure Plan is held invalid, those funds shall
be redistributed proportionately to other expenditures in accordance with the
Expenditure Plan.

X.	Statute of Limitations

Any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the Authority, or against any officer
of the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, of any Fee
or any amount of Fee required to be collected must be brought within 120 days of
the approval of the imposition of the Fee by the voters of Sonoma County.

XI.	Effective Date

This ordinance shall become effective at the close of the polls on the Election Day it
is approved by a majority of the electors voting on the measure. Notwithstanding
the effective date of the ordinance, the first collection of a Vehicle Registration Fee
for registration of a new vehicle will not take place until six months following the
adoption of the measure by the voters, pursuant to Government Code section
65089.20. Also pursuant to Government Code section 65089.20, with respect to a
renewal of registration, no Vehicle Registration Fee shall be collected if the date for
renewal is prior to expiration of that six month period.

Passed and adopted on roll call by the following vote by the members of the Board
of Directors of the Sonoma County Transportation Authority, County of Sonoma,
on July 12,2010:

Director Brown	YES	Director Mackenzie	YES
Director Gallian	NO	Director McGuire	ABSENT
Director Gilardi	YES	Director Russell	NO
Director Glass	YES	Director Salmon	YES
Director Gurney	YES	Director Sawyer	YES
Director Kelley	ABSENT	Director Zane	ABSENT
7	Noes: 2	Absent: 3	Abstain: 0

SO ORDERED

I, the undersigned, certify that the foregoing resolution was duly adopted at a
regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Sonoma County Transportation
Authority held on July 12,2010.

si Suzanne Smith, Executive Director
Clerk, Sonoma County Transportation Authority <fullend>





<summary> SONOMA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

VEHICLE REGISTRATION FEE

EXPENDITURE PLAN

A.	Purpose of the Expenditure Plan

The Sonoma County Vehicle Registration Fee Expenditure Plan (Expenditure
Plan) will guide the annual expenditures of the funds generated by a $10 per year
vehicle registration fee (Fee), if approved by voters in the November 2010 election.
Sonoma County has very significant unfunded transportation needs, and this Fee
would provide funding to meet some of those needs, it is expected that this Fee will
generate approximately $5 million per year.

The goal of this Expenditure Plan is to support transportation investments in a way
that sustains the County’s transportation network and reduces traffic congestion
and vehicle-related pollution. The Fee would be a key part of an overall strategy to

develop a balanced, well thought-out program that improves transportation and
transit for County residents. The Fee will fund programs that:

•	Repair and maintain local streets and roads in the county.

•	Make public transportation easier to use and more efficient.

•	Make it easier to get to work or school, whether driving, using public
transportation, bicycling or walking.

•	Reduce pollution from cars and trucks.

The Expenditure Plan would have the following specific elements:

•	All of the money raised by the Fee would be used exclusively for trans-
portation in Sonoma County.

•	None of the funds raised, outside of the costs incurred by the
Department of Motor Vehicles to collect the Fee, can be taken by the
State.

•	There must be a relationship or benefit between the programs in the '
Expenditure Plan and the owners of motor vehicles paying the Fee.

■ Identify air quality benefits, congestion relief maintenance and safety
as key goals in any project.

•	Provide investments that will help create a smarter, more efficient
transportation system.

•	Establish a reliable source of funding to help fund critical and essential
local transportation programs.

•	Provide matching funds for funding made available from state and fed-
eral sources. Maintain and improve Sonoma County’s transportation
network while maintaining geographic equity, over successive five
year cycles.

B.	Statutory Authorization and Requirements

The opportunity for a countywide transportation agency to place this Fee before
the voters was authorized last year by the passage of Senate Bill 83, authored by
Senator Loni Hancock (Oakland). The Sonoma County Transportation Authority
(Authority) proposes to place a transportation measure on the November 2,2010
ballot to enact a $10 vehicle registration fee that would be used for local transporta-
tion and transit improvements throughout Sonoma County. A majority vote of the
electorate is required to enact this Fee.

The statute requires that the Fee collected be used only to pay for programs and
projects that bear a relationship or benefit to the owners of motor vehicles paying
the Fee and be consistent with a regional transportation plan. The Fee will be im-
posed on each annual motor-vehicle registration or renewal of registration in
Sonoma County occurring on or after six-months following the November 2,2010
election, where the measure was approved by the voters, for an unlimited period,
unless otherwise terminated by the voters of Sonoma County. To implement this
Fee, the statute requires the governing board of the Authority to adopt an Expendi-
ture Plan. The statute also requires the ballot measure resolution be approved by
majority vote of the Authority members at a noticed public hearing.

C.	Programmatic Expenditures

The Expenditure Plan identifies three types of programs that will receive funds
generated by the Fee. Below are descriptions of each program and the percentage
in parentheses of the annual revenue that will be allocated to each program after
deducting for the Authority's administrative costs. The Authority will program funds
to specific projects within the three categories every three years on a competitive
basis, countywide, unless stipulated otherwise in the Expenditure Plan. This effort
will seek geographic equity over successive five year cycles. The first program-
ming process will begin upon approval of ballot measure and conclude by July 1,
2011.


Pothole Repair. Complete Streets and New Technologies (23%)

This program would provide funding to improve, maintain and rehabilitate local
roads, bikeways and traffic signals. It also would incorporate the “complete streets"
practice that makes local roads safe for all modes, including bicyclists and pedes-
trians, and accommodates transit. This program would also improve the perfor-
mance of road, transit, pedestrian and bicyclist technology applications, and would
accommodate emerging vehicle technologies such as electric and plug-in-hybrid
vehicles. Projects eligible could include:

•	Street and bikeway repaving, rehabilitation and maintenance, includ-
ing curbs, gutters and drains

•	Traffic signal maintenance and upgrades, including transit, bicyclist
and pedestrian treatments

•	Signing and striping on roadways, including traffic and bicycle lanes
and crosswalks

•	Sidewalk repair and installation

•	Development, installation, operations, monitoring and maintenance of
local street and arterial transportation management technology such
as the “Smart Corridors Program,” traffic signal interconnection, transit
and emergency vehicle priority, advanced traffic management sys-
tems and advanced traveler information systems

•	Improve bicycle and pedestrian safety on arterials, other locally-
maintained roads and multi-use trails parallel to major roadway corridors

•	Improve infrastructure and access to schools, activity centers and
transit hubs (such as crosswalks, sidewalks, crossing guards, lighting
and signal improvements)

•	Infrastructure for alternative vehicle fuels such as electric and
plug-in-hybrid vehicle stations

•	New or emerging transportation technologies that provide congestion
or pollution mitigation

•	Advanced signal technology for transit, walking and bicycling

Safe Routes to School Program (12%)

This program would seek to reduce congestion through bicycle and pedestrian
safety programs for teens and children; carpool programs at schools throughout
Sonoma County and other related programs or projects that reduce trips to schools
and promote transportation safety. Projects eligible could include:

•	Programs aimed at increasing the number of children walking and bik-
ing to school.

•	Provide classroom lessons to teach children the necessary skills to
navigate safely through busy streets and to persuade them to be active
participants in the program.

•	Establish an education and encouragement program that offers
events, contests and materials to encourage children (and parents) to
walk and bicycle.

•	Create programs and incentives for carpooling and transit.

Transit for Congestion Relief Program (60%)

This program would seek to make it easier for drivers to use public transportation,
make the existing transit system more efficient and effective, and aid in mobility for
critical populations such as students and seniors. The goal of this program is to
decrease automobile usage and thereby reduce both localized and area-wide
congestion and air pollution. Each Sonoma County based bus operator will receive
its population share of funding on an annual basis and can use those funds on eligi-
ble projects such as:

•	Transit service expansion, preservation and general operations to pro-
vide congestion relief

•	Rapid bus development and implementation as well as other transit
priority treatments on local roadways

•	Employer or school-sponsored transit passes such as an “EcoPass
Program”

•	Travel Demand Management programs such as incentives, market-
ing, ridesharing and car sharing

•	Mobility management programs and services, including services for
seniors

•	Technology systems that enhance efficiency

D.	Public Information and Reporting

The Authority will provide annual financial projections for budgeting purposes and
will adopt an Annual Budget each fiscal year that will include projected Fee revenue,
other anticipated funds and planned expenditures for programs and administra-
tion.

The Authority will draft an Annual Report, which will be made available to the public
and will include the following:

•	Revenues collected

•	Expenditures by programs, including distribution of funds within each
program and administrative costs

•	Accomplishments and benefits realized by the programs

•	Proposed projects for funding in each program

Before adopting the Annual Report, the Authority will hold a public meeting and will
address public comments in the Annual Report. <summaryend>

