Measure C: Parcel Tax, Lakeside Joint School District

To protect quality education and small class sizes for all students in Lakeside Joint School district, and provide qualified teachers with specialized training, comprehensive science programs, updated classroom technology, and quality academic programs for middle school students, shall the Lakeside Joint School District be authorized to implement an annual education parcel tax of $311 for seven years, with citizen oversight, and exemption available for senior citizens, no funds for administrators' salaries and every dollar spent on Lakeside students?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:
A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a $311 per parcel qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a seven-year period of time.

A NO vote on this measure means:
A "no" vote is a vote not to approve a $311 per parcel qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a seven-year period of time.

Impartial Analysis from the Acting County Counsel
A school district, following notice and a public hearing, has authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and sections 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 of the California Government Code.
The Board of Trustees of the Lakeside Joint School District proposes levying a qualified special tax on each parcel within the district. The owners of each taxable parcel in the district would annually pay $311 per parcel for a period of 7 years, commencing July 1, 2010.
The purpose of the tax proposed by Measure C is to: protect high-quality core educational programs, such as English, math and science; provide a comprehensive education for middle school students, including science and academic enrichment programs; provide updated computers and learning technology; protect small class sizes; and retain and attract qualified teachers. Under no circumstances would the proceeds of this special tax be authorized to be used for administrators' salaries or benefits.
Any parcels owned and occupied by persons age 65 or older, or those receiving Supplemental Security Income, regardless of age, may be exempted from this tax. In order to receive this exemption, these owners or persons must submit an annual application for the exemption to the Board of Trustees prior to June 15th of each year.
The proceeds of the special tax would be deposited into a separate fund. These proceeds would only be applied to the purposes identified above and an annual written report would be made to the Board of Trustees showing the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of this tax, as well as the status of any projects, programs or purposes authorized to be funded by the school district. Additionally, if the special tax is approved, the Board of Trustees is required to appoint an independent citizens' oversight committee to help ensure the tax funds are used for their specific purposes approved by the voters and would report annually to the Board and community regarding the expenditure of these funds.
If the special tax is approved, the district's appropriations limit would be increased by an amount equal to the special tax collected for each year the special tax is authorized.
A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a $311 per parcel qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a seven-year period of time.
A "no" vote is a vote not to approve a $311 per parcel qualified special tax on parcels within the District for a seven-year period of time.
Miguel Marquez Acting County Counsel  By: /s/ Susan Swain Senior Lead Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure C
Lakeside School has provided an excellent education for local students here in our mountain community for over 127 years.
Lakeside is the fourth highest ranked elementary school district in Santa Clara County in student achievement, with small class sizes and excellent teachers for kindergarten through fifth grade students.
A Lakeside partnership with Campbell Union School District provides a comprehensive education for middle school students, including teachers with specialized training in the subjects they teach, strong academics like reading, writing and math, art and a science program with labs.
Yet, due to ongoing declines in state funding, Lakeside School faces drastic cutbacks and the middle school program is in jeopardy. Without Measure C, Lakeside will be required to educate nine grades of students with a budget that currently supports five teachers, resulting in two or three grade combination classes and a reduced educational quality.
That is why Measure C is critical. With funds that cannot be taken away by the state, Measure C will preserve high-quality education that students deserve.
Yes on Measure C
	•	Protect core academics in English, math and science for all students
	•	Provide a comprehensive middle school education with teachers who specialize in the subjects they teach
	•	Provide updated computer learning technology
	•	Maintain small classes
	•	Retain and attract qualified teachers 
Measure C is fiscally responsible
	•	All funds will support Lakeside students and cannot be taken away by the state or be used for administrators' salaries
	•	Citizen oversight and independent audits ensure funds are used wisely
	•	Exemption available for homeowners 65 and older
	•	Expires in 7 years and cannot be renewed without voter approval 
Our excellent Lakeside School keeps our community strong and protects local property values for all of us, even if we don't have kids in school. Please join parents, teachers and community leaders--vote YES on Measure C.
/s/ Richard White,br> Small Business Owner  /s/ Patricia A. Bjorlie Retired Lakeside School Teacher  /s/ Karen C. Fishback Retiree  /s/ Anne Plane Lakeside middle school parent  /s/ Sarah Hitchcock-Glover Lakeside Community Resident

(No argument against Measure C was submitted.)


Full Text of Measure C
INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE
To protect high-quality core educational programs like English, math and science, provide a comprehensive education for middle school students including science and academic enrichment programs, provide updated computers and learning technology, protect small class sizes, and retain and attract qualified teachers, the Lakeside Joint School District (K-8) proposes to establish an education parcel tax for a period of 7 years, beginning July 1, 2010, at the rate of $311 per year, on each assessor's parcel located within the Lakeside Joint School District, with an exemption available for senior citizens and persons on Supplemental Security Income, and to implement accountability measures in connection with the temporary levy that are over and above those required by law, including the appointment of an independent citizen oversight committee to provide oversight and accountability to ensure the funds are used to:

	•	protect high-quality core educational programs like English, math and science; 
	•	provide a comprehensive education for middle school students including science and academic enrichment programs; 
	•	provide updated computers and learning technology; 
	•	protect small class sizes; and 
	•	retain and attract qualified teachers. 
AMOUNT OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT The education parcel tax shall be $311 (or less as provided below) per year for seven (7) full years assessed against each parcel.
The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the District.
DEFINITION OF "PARCEL" For purposes of the special tax, the term "Parcel" means any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Lakeside Joint School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector's office or the Santa Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax in such year.
EXEMPTION FOR CONTIGUOUS PARCELS For purposes of this special tax, any such "Parcels" which are (i) contiguous, (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of each year to the Board of Trustees of the Lakeside Joint School District be treated as a single "parcel" for purposes of the levy of this education parcel tax.
EXEMPTION OF SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either (a) 65 years of age or older or (b) persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from the education parcel tax by annually submitting an application, by June 15 of each year, to the Board of Trustees of the Lakeside Joint School District.
With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Clara County and the Santa Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector, respectively, or other appropriate County tax officials shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the education parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen and SSI Exemptions and the classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.
REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT The collection of the education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal government sources that would otherwise be available to the Lakeside Joint School District during the period of the education parcel tax. In the event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the Lakeside Joint School District shall cease the levy or shall reduce the education parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.
ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the education parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the education parcel tax, as identified above.
In addition to the accountability measures required by law, an independent citizen oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The oversight committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds have been spent.