Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Jefferson Union High School District

Measure P

To maintain and improve academic programs including reading, writing, science and math; fund computer technology/vocational training, and
retain highly qualified teachers; shall Jefferson Union High School District levy $96 per parcel annually for four years (as described in the voter
pamphlet), so long as seniors are exempt, no money is used for administrators’ salaries, independent citizens’ committee oversight is required, and
all funds are spent on neighborhood schools and cannot be taken by the State and used elsewhere?

Full Text

INTRODUCTION

To maintain and improve academic programs including
reading, writing, science and math; fund computer
technology/vocational training, and retain highly
qualified teachers; shall Jefferson Union High School
District levy $96 per parcel annually for four years (as
described in the voter pamphlet), so long as seniors are
exempt, no money is used for administrators’ salaries,
independent citizens’ committee oversight is required,
and all funds are spent on neighborhood schools and
cannot be taken by the State and used elsewhere?

PURPOSE

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to
maintain exceptional public education in our schools, the Jefferson
Union High School District proposes to levy and collect a qualified
special tax of $96 per parcel for a period of 4 years, beginning July 1,
2011, on each unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax
bill from the San Mateo County Tax Collector (as more fully described
below under “PROCEDURES”), with an optional exemption annually
available, upon application, for senior citizens, and to implement
accountability measures in connection with the special parcel tax to
provide oversight and accountability to ensure that funds are used to:

•	Preserve excellence in core academic
programs such as reading, writing, math, and
science;

•	Minimize class size increases in all grades
and layoffs for dozens of teachers and school
employees;

•	Continue teacher professional development
by providing training programs and activities
that support high quality teaching;

•	Help protect arts and music instruction,
course offerings and electives that provide a
well-rounded education, challenge students,
allow students to be highly competitive for
colleges and university admissions, provide
career vocational education that prepares
students for the workforce and provide
instructional support for those struggling
with the basics;

•	Reduce the impact of deep budget cuts by
providing a stable local funding source that
cannot be taken away by the State or other
school districts; and •

•	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in
education and ensure District accountability
by providing for oversight and independent
financial audits of revenues and expenditures.

The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes
listed above, unless the Board of Trustees determines in any given year
that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes
in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. In
any event, the Board of Trustees will not fund any program or reduction
other than those listed above from the proceeds of the special parcel
taxes.

SENIOR EXEMPTION

In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community, any
parcel owned and occupied as a principal residence by a person 65 years
of age or older shall be exempt from the levy of the special tax upon
proper application to the District. The exemption shall be available
pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the District or otherwise as
required by law or by the San Mateo County Tax Collector.

PROCEDURES

Subject to two thirds approval of the voters, the special tax of $96
per parcel (except exempt parcels, as described below) shall become
effective as of July 1, 2011 and be collected by the San Mateo County
Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject
to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax
collector.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Tax Collector.
However, with respect to any parcel that is classified by the San Mateo
County Assessor as multi-family residential containing 2 to 4 units
shall constitute 2 parcels, and those containing 5 or more units shall
constitute 5 parcels, for the purposes of levying and collecting the
special tax against such parcels, to the extent permitted by law.

All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will
also be exempt from the qualified special tax. In addition, seniors
may apply for an exemption as described above under “SENIOR
EXEMPTION”.

The procedures described herein with respect to the levy and collection
of the special tax and exemptions, and any additional procedures
established by the Board of Trustees, shall be the exclusive claims
procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or
re-computation of the special parcel tax. Whether any particular claim
is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by
the District, in coordination with the County as necessary.

The District’s Board of Trustees may adopt such additional or
supplemental procedures as it deems necessary or convenient for the
administration of the special parcel tax.

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Jefferson Union High School District

Impartial Analysis of Measure P

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government
Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability
measures, among others, shall apply to the special parcel taxes levied
in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special
parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of
the special parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes
identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into
which the proceeds of the special parcel taxes must be deposited; and
(d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of
the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended
from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the status of any projects,
programs, or purposes required or authorized to be funded from the
proceeds of the special taxes, as identified above.

In addition to the accountability measures required by State law, an
independent Community Oversight Committee shall be appointed by
the Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by
the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes
approved by the voters. The Community Oversight Committee will
monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report
on an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds
have been spent.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the
District because of the District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if
any such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax,
then the amount of the special parcel taxes will be reduced annually as
necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence
and clause of this measure has independent value, and the Board of
Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof
regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall
remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Jefferson Union High
School District proposes to levy a special tax for a period of four years
beginning July 1, 2011 and ending June 30, 2015. This tax shall be at
a rate of $96 per year per parcel on all taxable parcels in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District
which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from
the San Mateo County tax collection officials. However, any parcel
that is classified by the San Mateo County Assessor as multi-family
residential containing two to four units shall constitute two parcels,
and those containing five or more units shall constitute five parcels,
for the purposes of levying and collecting this special tax, to the extent
permitted by law. All property that would otherwise be exempt from
property taxes will also be exempt from the special tax. In addition, an
exemption shall be available to persons who are 65 years or older who
own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel and who apply for
such exemption.

The stated purposes of the special tax are: core academic programs,
other course offerings and electives; arts and music instruction;
vocational education; minimize class size increases, minimize layoffs
of teachers and employees; teacher training programs and instructional
support. The proceeds will be used for these purposes unless the
Board of Trustees determines in any given year that changes in student
population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal
funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the
proceeds will be only be used for the purposes listed above.

The special tax is not intended to decrease or offset local, state or
federal government funding sources that would otherwise be available
to the District at any time during which the tax may be levied. In the
event that the levy and collection of the tax does have such an effect,
the District shall reduce the tax levy to the extent of any such decrease
or offset.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special account.
An independent citizens’ oversight committee will be established to
monitor the expenditures of these tax revenues. An annual report is
required that accounts for the parcel tax revenues collected and the
manner in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax
to be levied on property within the boundaries of the
Jefferson Union High School District for a period of four
years beginning July 1, 2011 and ending June 30, 2015
in an amount of $96 per year per taxable parcel for the
specified purposes listed above.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special
tax to be levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes”.

For a free copy of an ordinance or measure, call 650.312.5222
or visit

www.shapethefuture.org/elections/2010/nov2010/measures.asp.

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Jefferson Union High School District

Argument in Favor of Measure P

Measure P will guarantee our schools with funding for academic
programs such as math, science, reading and writing and will help the
District retain quality teachers. By law, Measure P funds can only be
used to improve our neighborhood schools and cannot be taken by the
State and spent elsewhere.

By providing a source of guaranteed locally controlled funding,
Measure P will allow our schools to continue to focus on academic
excellence in our classrooms, to provide vocational and technical
training to students, and to prepare our children for college and today’s
workforce.

Measure P will:

•	Maintain and improve core academics such as math,
science, reading and writing;

•	Attract and retain highly qualified and experienced
teachers;

•	Maintain smaller class sizes; and

•	Maintain and improve computer technology and
vocational training

Measure P protects taxpayers and will:

•	Establish a citizen’s oversight committee to ensure funds
are spent as promised;

•	Offer a senior citizens exemption;

•	Be limited to only four years;

•	Require by law that all funds must be spent locally and
not be taken by the State and spent elsewhere;

•	Provide local citizen oversight, and

•	Restrict spending so funds are used for academics and
not administrative salaries.

Our local schools are our community’s most important asset and
number one priority. Measure P deserves our support. Top quality
teachers, strong academic programs and community support have kept
our schools strong. Now, we need your support more than ever.

Please join us in working to uphold the quality of our schools and our
community by voting YES ON MEASURE P!

Is/ Albert Teglia	August	12,	2010

Former Mayor, City of Daly City

/s/ Jean E. Brink	August	12,	2010

Former Trustee, Jefferson Union High School District

/s/ Micheal D. Nevin	August	12,	2010

Former President, San Mateo County Board of Supervisors

Is/ Yukiku Diane Go	August	12,	2010

Westmoor Parent

Is/ Rochelle Oakley	August	12,	2010

Terra Nova Parent

No Argument Against Measure P Submitted

3