Hotel Tax Clarification and Temporary Increase

Shall the City increase the hotel tax rate from 14% to 16% for the next three
years, confirm that anyone collecting rent from a hotel guest must also col-
lect tax on room rental and related charges, and define "permanent resi-
dent" so that only an individual could qualify for the "permanent resident"
exemption?

YES

NO

	
Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee	Controller's Statement on "J"

The Way It Is Now: The City charges a 14% tax on the
rental of hotel rooms and related charges, and that
money goes to the General Fund. In addition, a fee of 1%
to 1V2% for improving Moscone Convention Center and
promoting San Francisco is assessed.

The hotel tax applies to the amount a guest pays to occu-
py a room and related charges, and the hotel "operator"
must collect the tax when it collects the payment.The
hotel tax does not apply to payment from a "permanent
resident" who occupies a hotel room for at least 30 con-
secutive days.TheTax Code defines "operator" and
"permanent resident." (See the legal text of the measure.)

The Proposal: Proposition J would increase the hotel tax
rate from 14% to 16%.This increase would be in effect
from January 1, 2011, until January 1, 2014. Money
collected from the increase would go to the General Fund
and the City could use it for any public purpose.

Proposition J would confirm that the hotel tax applies to
the amount a guest pays to occupy a room and related
charges, and that anyone collecting payment from a hotel
guest must collect the tax on that amount and pay it to
the City.

Proposition J would define "permanent resident" so that
only an individual could qualify for the "permanent resi-
dent" exemption.

A "YES" Vote Means: If you vote "yes," you want to:

•	increase the hotel tax rate from 14% to 16% for the
next three years,

•	confirm that anyone collecting rent from a hotel
guest must also collect tax on room rental and relat-
ed charges, and

•	define "permanent resident" so that only an individ-
ual could qualify for the "permanent resident"
exemption.

A "NO" Vote Means: If you vote "no," you do not want to
make these changes to the hotel tax.

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition J:

Should the proposed ordinance be approved by the
voters, in my opinion, it would generate additional tax
revenue for the City of approximately $38.0 million
annually that can be used for any public purpose.

The ordinance would add 2% to the surcharge on the
City's hotel tax rate thereby increasing the overall hotel
tax rate from the current 14% to 16%.The increased
surcharge would be in effect for a three year period from
January 1, 2011 to January 1, 2014. After January 2014 the
overall tax rate would return to 14%.This change would
result in an estimated $26.0 million in new revenues on
an annual basis beginning in 2011.

The ordinance would specify that the City's hotel tax
applies to any entity collecting room rental charges from
a hotel guest, specify that only individuals can qualify for
the 'permanent resident' exemption to the hotel tax, and
make other clarifications.These clarifications would result
in approximately $12.0 million annually in new revenues.

How "J" Got on the Ballot

On July 13, 2010, the Department of Elections certified
that the initiative petition calling for Proposition J to be
placed on the ballot had a sufficient number of valid
signatures to qualify the measure for the ballot.

7,168 signatures were required to place an initiative
ordinance on the ballot.This number is equal to 5% of
the total number of people who voted for Mayor in 2007.
A random check of the signatures submitted by the
proponents of the initiative petition prior to the July 6,
2010, submission deadline showed that the total number
of valid signatures was greater than the number required.
—
Propositions J and K concern the same subject matter. If
both measures are adopted by the voters, and if there is
a conflict between provisions of the two measures, then
some or all of the measure approved by fewer votes
would not go into effect.

<■

This measure requires 50%+1 affirmative votes to pass.

Arguments for and against this measure immediately follow this page.The full text begins on page 184.
Some of the words used in the ballot digest are explained on page 61.

38-CP125-EN-N10

Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition J

San Franciscans who ride MUNI, send children to pub-
lic school, or use city streets and parks have already
been hurt by the huge budget deficits caused by our
deep recession.

We aren't the only ones. Each year, five million tourists
visit San Francisco. These visitors rely on the same
services we do: MUNI, police and fire protection, trash
collection, even health care.

Proposition J is a fair solution that will help fund these
vital services but won't cost San Franciscans a penny.

It was placed on the ballot through a community
petition drive that collected signatures from 15,000
San Francisco voters.

YES on J creates a temporary 2% surcharge on the
cost of hotel rooms that will expire in four years.The
average visitor would pay an extra $3 per night.

YES on J also closes loopholes that certain internet
hotel booking companies and large airlines are using
to avoid paying their full share of the hotel tax.

Currently, visitors to San Francisco pay the same or
lower hotel tax than they do in New York, Los Angeles

and Boston. Our hotel tax has not increased in 14
years while costs have skyrocketed.

The large hotel owners oppose Proposition J.They
have placed a "poison pill" on the ballot - Proposition
K - which will kill Proposition J.

Don't be fooled! Proposition J is supported by a
diverse coalition that includes the San Francisco
Democratic Party, teachers, nurses, city employees and
health care advocates.

REMEMBER - IT TAKES TWO VOTES TO SAVE VITAL
SERVICES: YES on J, NO on K!

Martha Hawthorne, Public Health Nurse*

Claire Merced, Public School Teacher

Maritza Di Cicco, Coleman Action Fund for Children

Supervisor Eric Mar

California Nurses Association

United Educators of San Francisco

Sierra Club

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Rebuttal to Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition J

We will pay for Proposition J in lost wages, benefits,
and jobs.

Fact:The 2 point increase in the hotel tax is projected
to eliminate more than 2,000 jobs and $75 million in
wages.

Fact: Supporters of Prop J say we haven't increased
our hotel tax in 14 years. But since 2009, hotels have
paid an additional $8 million per year to the City's
general fund. Based on a self-assessment paid by all
San Francisco hotels, and ratified by the Board of
Supervisors, a fee of 1% to 1.5% is added to all hotel
room bills.This fee effectively raises our hotel tax to
15% -15.5%. With the additional increase from
Proposition J, San Francisco will have the highest
hotel tax in the Nation.

Fact: When New York City increased its hotel tax to a
similar amount, convention business plummeted,
costing the city millions of dollars. New York City was
forced to repeal the increase.

We are small business leaders, local merchant associa-
tions, neighborhood shopkeepers, and restaurateurs
and we join the Mayor in opposing Proposition J
because it will hurt our small businesses and cost local
jobs.

Please join us and VOTE NO ON PROPOSITION J.

Mayor Gavin Newsom

Joe DAIessandro, President & CEO, San Francisco

Convention and Visitors Bureau

Small Business Advocates

San Francisco Council of District Merchants

San Francisco Small Business Network

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP126-EN-N10

Opponent's Argument Against Proposition J

Proposition J is a job-killing tax that will harm the
tourism industry.

Proposition J is a poorly-timed and irresponsible
measure that will harm some of San Francisco's most
important economic pillars - tourism, conventions, and
the visitor services industry.

Unlike Proposition K, Proposition J raises taxes.Tens of
thousands of local residents are directly employed by
large, mid-sized, and small companies that serve the
many visitors our City greets each year.The ripple
effect of this economic activity touches every City
neighborhood. Proponents argue that the tax only
affects out-of-towners but this tax increase would hurt
local jobs, local business, and local residents.

Increasing the effective rate of Hotel Tax from
15%-15.5% to 17%-17.5% will give San Francisco the
highest level of hotel taxes in the country, discourage
casual visitors, inhibit regular business travelers, and
scare off large conventions that drive our economy.
This increase prices San Francisco out of the regional
convention market and sends millions of dollars of
business to rival cities up and down the West Coast.

This proposed tax increase would give San Francisco
the dubious honor of having the highest level of hotel
taxes in the county - even higher than New York City!
When NYC raised its hotel taxes too high, the impact
on the economy was so strong that the tax was
repealed less than two years later.

When we balanced the budget this year, we avoided
taxes that would hurt our local economy. Now, special
interest groups have seized the initiative process and
are recklessly threatening local jobs, local tax reve-
nues, and our City's economic future.

Proposition J is the wrong choice in this economy.
Please join us in voting NO on Proposition J.

Mayor Gavin Newsom

Joe D'Alessandro, President & CEO, San Francisco
Convention and Visitors Bureau

Rebuttal to Opponent's Argument Against Proposition J

Close the loopholes and save vital services by voting
Yes on J and No on K.

We all agree on closing loopholes used by hotel
internet booking companies and the airline industry.
Shouldn't hotels also be required to do their fair
share?

Yes on J is hotel fairness.

5 million tourists come to San Francisco every year. We
are - and always will be - the most attractive city in
America.

Most visitors will tell you: a temporary surcharge of $3
per night is a bargain if it helps fund a more reliable
Muni, ensures that homeless services are available,
and keeps city streets clean and safe.

Not a shred of evidence on the economy.

Fourteen years ago was the last time the hotel tax was
raised in San Francisco. Afterwards, tourism climbed
more than ever. And hotel owners just jacked up their
own charges 1.5% without hurting the tourist industry.

Visitors use city services, too.

San Franciscans have endured cuts in schools. Muni,
safety and health care. City employees have taken a
voluntary $250 million pay cut.

Shouldn't the 5 million visitors to San Francisco pay
their fair share of rising costs? It takes two votes to
save vital services.

Please join us and vote Yes on J and No on K.

Martha Hawthorne, Public Health Nurse*

Claire Merced, Public School Teacher

Maritza Di Ciccof Coleman Action Fund for Children

Assemblyman Tom Ammiano

Board of Supervisors President David Chiu

California Nurses Association

United Educators of San Francisco

Sierra Club

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP127-EN-N10

ESJ

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

If the City can charge visitors $7 to walk in the
Arboretum to raise $250,000/year, instead we can
impose a 2% surcharge averaging $3/night on visitors
in the Hotel Tax for 3 years to raise $100 million for the
general fund. Large enough to truly help out San
Franciscans, but way too small to discourage visitors!
Vote YES on the Prop. J Hotel Tax and vote No on Prop.
K that raises no new revenue and would Kancel Prop. J.

Keep Arboretum Free
Karen Anderson
MarkAnquoe
Dennis Antenore
Don Ayers
Bridget Boylan
Allan Chalmers
Linda Chalmers
Barbara Chesnut
David Eldred
Pierre Fraysse
Mark Gould
Christie Hakim
Katherine Howard
Jane Jens
Peter Jay Kushner
Jeanne Lahaie
Lori Liederman
Andrew Moore
Elias Moosa
Denis Mosgofian
Rasa Gustaitis Moss
Mary Spoerer
Marysia Springenberg
Tami Twarog

The true sources of funds for the printing fee of this argu-
ment are all authors except Keep Arboretum Free.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

It's time to raise new revenues to stop the privatiza-
tion of our parks and recreation centers and keep them
accessible for everyone. While closing two corporate
tax loopholes. Prop. J adds a modest 2% surcharge on
hotel rooms for 3 years, averaging $3 a night. Large
enough to help the City but too small to discourage
visitors! Passage will raise $100 million over three
years for the general fund.

In August, the City required residents to show ID to
walk in the Arboretum and imposed a $7 fee for visi-
tors, a prelude to charging residents. Prop J revenue
can keep our parks from being turned into exclusive
reserves for those who can pay. The revenue can be
used to protect and restore vital services, prevent fur-

ther commercialization of our parks, and recreation
centers, and hire more gardeners and recreation direc-
tors. Keep the Arboretum Free!

YES on Prop. J.

Keep Arboretum Free
MarkAnguoe
Karen Anderson
Dennis Antenore
Don Ayers
L/C. Buchanan
Allan Chalmers
Linda Chalmers
Barbara Chesnut
David Eldred
Pierre Fraysse
Jerry Gerber
Mark Gould
Christie Hakim
K.E. Howard
Jane Jens
Peter Jay Kushner
Lori Liederman
Andrew Moore
Denis Mosgofian
Rasa Gustaitis Moss
All Schneider
Mary Spoerer
Bridget Boylan
Jeanne Lahaie
Tami Twarog
Elias Moosa

The true sources of funds for the printing fee of this argu-
ment are all authors except Keep Arboretum Free.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

STAND UP FOR OUR KIDS: YES ON J

Prop J will help to save services for the 60,000 San
Francisco children who rely on city-supported commu-
nity programs to get a healthy start in life. Our kids
need us to stand up and stop budget cuts to summer
school, afterschool programs, violence prevention ser-
vices, and child care centers - especially at a time of
national crisis when so many parents are unemployed.

Vote YES on Proposition J.

Coleman Advocates for Children & Youth
Our Family Coalition
CARECEN SF

Bruce Fisher, Executive Director, Huckleberry Youth
Programs*

Bernal Heights Neighborhood Center
LYRIC

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP128-EN-N10

Paid Arguments - Proposition J

129

Filipino Community Center

South of Market Community Action Network

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Coleman Action Fund for Children.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

Vote YES on J: Fight for San Francisco Working
Families

Prop J was created by and for the working families of
San Francisco who are the backbone of our city econo-
my. The nation's economic crisis and city budget cuts
have made raising children here harder than ever - but
proposals like Prop J will ease the pain and make a
real difference in our lives.

Prop J will save jobs and city-supported community
services that 60,000 SF kids depend on for their health
care, safe shelter, school support and afterschool care
while parents are working.

While the hotel industry has millions to spend on its
deceptive ad campaign against Prop J, we have the
truth on our side: Prop J is a fair solution to our local
fiscal and economic crisis, bringing in desperately-
needed revenue while avoiding new taxes on city resi-
dents and families.

Join working families in voting YES on Prop J!

Coleman Action Fund for Children

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Coleman Action Fund for Children.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

United Community and Worker Voices Say Vote YES on J

San Francisco's working families, immigrants, and stu-
dents already pay our fair share of taxes. And we've
been bearing the burden of city budget cuts for too
long. We support Prop J because it calls on tourists
and big hotel corporations to finally pay their fair
share.

We represent a new grassroots movement of everyday
San Franciscans coming together to create a vibrant,
truly world-class and just city for all. Our members
committed hundreds of volunteer hours to put Prop J
on the ballot because it is a fair and forward-thinking
approach to sustaining the foundation of any vibrant,
global city - its public services.

If you [heart] SF, vote YES on J.

Causa Justa:: Just Cause (formerly St Peters Housing
Committee)

Chinese Progressive Association
Coleman Action Fund for Children
Filipino Community Center
Mujeres Unidas y Activas
Pride at Work

South of Market Community Action Network
Young Workers United
JOBS WITH JUSTICE

People Organizing to Demand Environmental and

Economic Justice

San Francisco Day Labor Program

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

Richmond District Leaders Support Prop J

Vital neighborhood services for seniors, children and
families continue to be cut or eliminated undermining
the quality of life for everyone. We need a balanced
approach to the budget crisis, including new sources
of revenue.

Vote YES on Prop J to protect public services at no
cost to San Franciscans.

Pat Kaussen, Richmond District Neighborhood Center*
Kavoos Ghane Bassiri, Richmond Area Multi-Services*
Sandra Lee Fewer, San Francisco Board of Education*
Eric Mar, District 1 Supervisor
Hene Kelly. Retired Teacher*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

Tenant Advocates Say YES ON J

The basic city services Tenants rely on in San Francisco
have been slashed over the past three budget years:
bus lines eliminated, health programs cut, and 900
teachers proposed for layoffs.Tenant advocates sup-
port a balanced budget solution that includes new rev-

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP129-EN-N10

ESJ

enues. Prop J closes corporate loopholes and imposes
a modest, $3/night surcharge on hotel rooms.

Stop Cuts to Services San Francisco Tenants Rely On -
VOTE YES ON J!

San Francisco Tenants Union
Affordable Housing Alliance

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

SAN FRANCISCO TEACHERS SAY 'YES ON J'

This year San Francisco's school district proposed lay-
ing off 900 teachers and growing class sizes dramati-
cally to close its budget deficit. Proposition J closes
loopholes abused by big hotel and airline companies
and imposes a temporary, $3/night visitor surcharge
for three years. Proposition J raises as much as $30
million to support our city and help our struggling
school system. It's time for a balanced approach to our
budget that includes new revenue.

Teachers ask you to support our struggling local school
system - VoteYES on J!

Dennis Kelly, President - UESF
Linda Flack, Executive VP - UESF*

Susan Solomon, Secretary - UESF
Patricia Golumb, A.P Giannini Middle*

Jay Kozak, George Washington High *

Kathleen Cecil, Mission High*

Lawrence Blake, Hoover Middle*

Ken Tray, Lowell High*

Katherine Melvin, Lowell High*

MariaTeresa Rode, Lowell High*

Larry Nichelson, Gallileo High*

Jessica Hobbs, Hillcrest Elementary*

Alita Blanc, Moscone Elementary*

Maria Lourdes Nocedal, Sheridan Elementary*

Eva Lee, Alamo Elementary*

Rose Curreri, Taylor Elementary*

Patricia Mann, School Psychologist*

Carolyn Samoa, Paraprofessional, Paul Revere
Elementary*

David Russitano, Paul Revere Elementary*

Susan Kitchell, School Nurse, Burton High*

MaryThomas, San Miguel Children Center*

Daniel Markarian, CORE Substitute*

Marilyn Cornwell, Substitute Teacher*

David Mahon, Guadalupe Elementary*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

Sierra Club Supports Proposition J

Our parks, public open spaces. Muni, and citywide bike
network, all rely on city funds to keep them going.
Proposition J is a fair approach to balance the budget
deficits that have cause drastic cuts to these services
these past years without costing San Franciscans a
penny.

Protect our Parks andTransit -VoteYES on J
Sierra Club

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

Nurses Say YES on J

Cuts to health programs have hurt San Francisco's
groundbreaking effort to offer universal health care,
forcing layoffs of health care workers and cutting
health clinic hours. We cannot afford to solve the bud-
get challenges with cuts alone. Prop J closes corporate
loopholes and raises the Hotel Tax by an average of $3
a night, providing up to $30 million to support our
health care infrastructure.

Anthony Singleton, Paraprofessional, Burton High*
Miranda Doyle, Martin Luther King Middle*
CharlesTurner, Tenderloin Elementary (Ret.)*
DerrickTynan-Connolly, Hilltop School*

Barbara Savitz, RN*
Jonica Brooks, RN*
Naomi Schoerfeld, RN*
Albina Guerrero, RN*
Yvette Bassett, RN*
Lonnie Kidd, RN*
Donna Goodman, RN*
Merrie Jo Musni, RN*
Kristie May, RN*

Sarah Abdolcader, RN*

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP130-EN-N10

Patricia O'Neal, RN*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

Democrats Support Proposition J

Children's programs cancelled, senior services slashed.
Muni lines terminated - San Francisco's budget deficit
has hurt the basic services we all rely on. Proposition J
helps stop these cuts without costing San Franciscans
a penny.

Democrats say close the loopholes and support fair
revenue - Vote YES J

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Allianc.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

Senior Action Network Says Yes on J!

City budget deficits over the past three years have
forced devastating cuts to services for seniors on fixed
incomes and persons with disabilities. Drop-in centers
have reduced hours, and health and food programs
have been cut drastically in order to balance the bud-
get. Proposition J will stop these cuts and protect the
services that seniors and persons with disabilities rely
on.

It's time for a fair approach to a balanced budget -
Please Vote Yes on J!

Senior Action Network

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

LGBT LEADERS SAYYES ON J

Over the past few years, record deficits have forced
budget cuts with a direct impact on our community:
health services for people with HIV, food programs for
LGBT homeless youth, and cuts to mental health ser-
vices at New Leaf.

Prop J will help protect services for the LGBT commu-
nity by closing loopholes in our tax code that airlines
and online hotel booking companies take advantage
of, costing the City tens of millions of dollars over the
past few years. In addition, Proposition J imposes a
temporary visitor surcharge, an average of $3 per
night, to support basic services.

Harvey Milk LGBT Democratic Club

SF Pride at Work

Fmr. Senator Carole Migden

AssemblymemberTom Ammiano

Supervisor David Campos

Debra Walker, Past President Harvey Milk LGBT

Democratic Club

Rafael Mandelman, Past President Harvey Milk LGBT
Democratic Club

Michael Goldstein, Past President Harvey Milk LGBT
Democratic Club

David Waggoner, Co-President Harvey Milk LGBT
Democratic Club

Robert "Gabriel" Haaland, SF Pride at Work
Kristina Wertz

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Stand Up for San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. United Educators of San Francisco,

2. California Nurses Association, 3. Chinese Progressive
Association.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

Community Non-Profit Health Agencies Say Yes on J!

San Francisco community nonprofit health and human
services agencies have experienced significant cuts in
funding over the last two years. Next year projections
show that the deficit will be even more devastating to
essential services to San Francisco's most vulnerable
residents.

We can no longer address our budget issues only
through cuts. We must have additional revenue as a
part of the solution.

Proposition J is a fair solution that will raise needed
revenue to prevent the closure of vital services without
costing San Franciscans a penny.This fair and overdue

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP131-EN-N10

ESJ

adjustment to the hotel tax will provide the resources
to help prevent the loss of health and human services
for seniors, families, the disabled and homeless San
Franciscans.

Join the San Francisco Human Services Network, a
coalition of over 100 community nonprofit agencies,
and vote YES on Proposition J and NO on K!

San Francisco Human Services Network

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Human Services Network.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

LIBRARY WORKERS SAYYES ON J

San Francisco's public libraries have suffered direct
cuts as a result of the economic crisis. Hours at neigh-
borhood branch libraries have been reduced, staff and
programs cut. Let's find a better solution to our budget
crisis than cuts alone. Voting YES on J will help balance
our budget the fair way, by closing tax loopholes and
charging visitors a modest and temporary surcharge -
an average of $3 per night.

Librarians and neighborhood branch library workers
ask you to Vote YES on J!

Andrea Grimes, Librarian*

Catherine Bremer■ Librarian*

Marilyn Dong, Librarian*

Nancy Silverrod, Librarian*

Quindi Berger, Librarian*

Stephen Lee, Library Technician*

Jennifer Giovanetti, Page*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

LAGUNA HONDA HOSPITAL WORKERS SAYYES ON J

Over the past three years we have watched services for
San Francisco's senior and disabled community at
Laguna Honda Hospital reduced or cut altogether. Beds
for senior and disabled care, the Senior Adult Day
Health Program, and many other direct patient services
have been cut or eliminated as the city has tightened
its belt. It's time to find a fair solution to our budget
that doesn't cut services for seniors and disabled
patients. Prop J closes loopholes and imposes a tem-

porary surcharge on hotel visitors averaging $3/night,
raising funds for patient care services.

Laguna Honda Hospital Workers ask you to support
senior and disabled patients by voting YES on J!

Susan Lindsay, Health Worker*

Gloria Mayfield, Nursing Assistant*

Patricia Mackey Williams, Nursing Assistant*

Rosalinda Concha, Licensed Vocational Nurse*
MasakiTsurn, Nursing Assistant*

Randy Ellen Blaustein, Certified Therapeutic Recreation
Specialist*

Alexander Maestre, Porter*

Joseph McHugh, Cadet*

Bonnie Richardson, DMIT*

Winnie Dunbar, Cadet*

Micahel Beglin, Porter*

Karen Zhang, Porter*

Jenny Tam, Porter*

Bryan Uyeno, Environmental Services*

Gregory Rechsteiner, Plant Services*

Rose Huang, Porter*

Chi-Lung Chan, Porter*

Li Chan Rey, Porter*

Jamllah Din, Food Service Worker*

Philip Chang, Porter*

Allen Lee, Porter*

Tan Poy Chan, Porter*

Mee Mee Tong, Porter*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

FIRST RESPONDERS SAYYES ON J!

When San Franciscans need emergency services and
care they rely on us to deliver them. But over the past
three years, budget deficits have forced cuts to critical
patient care at San Francisco General Hospital's
Emergency Room and other first-response services.
Proposition J will help stop the cuts by closing tax
loopholes abused by airlines and online hotel booking
companies and imposing a temporary surcharge on
hotel visitors averaging $3/night. It's time to find a fair
solution to our budget that doesn't cut city services.

Join San Francisco First Responders - VoteYES on J

Kathryn Guta, RN, General Hospital*

Sue Trupin, RN, General Hospital*

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP132-EN-N10

Paid Arguments - Proposition J

133

Theresa Cahill, RN, General Hospital*

Jo Anne Roy, General Hospital*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition J

SAN FRANCISCO GENERAL WORKERS SAY YES ON J

We provide health care to everyone that walks through
our doors, but we can't continue to do it in the face of
deep budget and staff cuts. As workers at San
Francisco General Hospital, we have seen first-hand
the impact of budget deficits on direct patient care and
specialized programs like acute psychiatric services.
Proposition J closes loopholes and imposes a tempo-
rary surcharge on hotel visitors of averaging $3/night.
It's time for a balanced solution to our budget deficits
that preserves services for our patients.

General Hospital workers ask you to support patient
services - VoteYES ON J!

Amalia Fyles,	RN*

Kristina Hung,	RN*

Daniel Merer, RN*

Pete Trachy, RN*

Amalia Deck, RN*

Ana Urrutia, RN*

Cynthia Cornett, RN*

Teri Hightower, Porter*

Linda Cummins, Sr. Clerk*

Cristina Mendoza, Sr. Clerk*

Mayfanna Li, Medical Assistant*

Mariertta Morris-Alston, Unit Clerk*

Michael Tong, Institutional Police Officer*

Charles Sanchez, Porter*

Dionii Derrick*

Jessica Tam Middleton*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 PAC.

The true source recipient committee is funded by member
contributions.

End of Paid Arguments IN FAVOR of Proposition J

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition J

The small business community stands united against
Proposition J. We oppose the 14.3% increase of the
Hotel Tax because of the importance the visitor and
conventions industry to San Francisco's overall eco-
nomic vitality and its direct connection to many of our
members' monthly bottom lines.

Raising taxes will hurt the small business community
by discouraging casual visitors, business travelers, and
conventions from coming to San Francisco. This effect
harms our community in two ways.

Firstly, a sizable section of our members directly bene-
fit from the tens of millions of dollars spent by out-of-
towners on a regular basis. Second, the visitors' ser-
vices industry is a very large economic driver - creat-
ing a ripple effect of positive economic growth. For
every paycheck drawn by a banquet server, tour bus
driver, waitress, bartender, and hotel janitor job in the
City, those wages are reinvested into the City's small
businesses in every neighborhood.

All San Franciscans, directly or indirectly, depend on
the economic engine that out-of-town dollars fuel.
Please join us in opposing a tax that will harm local
business and stall our struggling economy's path to
recovery.

Proposition J is the wrong choice in this economy.
Please join us in voting NO on Proposition J.

Small Business Network

San Francisco Council of District Merchants Association
Small Business Advocates

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the SF Small Business Network.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition J

Proposition J is a poorly-timed and irresponsible mea-
sure that will harm one of San Francisco's most impor-
tant economic pillars - tourism, conventions, and the
visitor services industry. Raising hotel taxes by 14.3%
will discourage all types of visitors and give other cit-
ies an advantage.

In the restaurant industry, out-of-town visitors make up
a significant portion of San Francisco diners - bringing
in valuable dollars for local tax coffers.Thousands of
waiters, bartenders, servers, cooks, and restaurant
staffers would not be employed if people from other
places did not come to San Francisco to stay in our
hotels, eat in our restaurants, and spend money in our
beautiful City.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-CP133-EN-N10

134

Paid Arguments - Proposition J

E1J

According to the San Francisco Controller's Office,
Proposition J's tax increase will be passed on to visi-
tors; lowering occupancy, tourism spending, and tour-
ism industry employment. With our City's economic
future in question, the last thing we need is higher
taxes on key sectors of our economy and disincentives
for visitors to spend money in our City. Now is not the
time to raise taxes.

Please join us in voting NO on Proposition J. Support
San Francisco's visitor services industry, hotels, and
restaurants. Vote NO on Proposition J.

Golden Gate Restaurant Association

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the Golden Gate Restaurant Association.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee are: 1. Accuchex Corporation, 2. MTK
Communications, 3. San Francisco Police Officers
Association.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition J

Prop J will make San Francisco's hotel tax the highest
in the nation, making us less competitive for conven-
tion business and eliminating over 2,000 jobs every
year in hotels, restaurants and related industries.
Mayor Newsom balanced this year's budget without
new taxes, help support our economic recovery.

Vote NO on J,YES on K.

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce and our 1,500
local businesses.

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition J

Proposition J will raise taxes on some of San
Francisco's most important economic pillars - tourism,
conventions, and the visitor services industry.This bal-
lot measure will threaten local jobs, local tax revenues,
and our economic future as a City. On paper, the tax
increase is on hotel bills. In the real world, this tax hike
will ultimately cost you - the tax payer and voter.

Tens of thousands of local residents are directly
employed by companies of all sizes that serve the mil-
lions of visitors who come to our City each year. From
local restaurants to retail stores to transportation ser-
vices to nightlife venues and more, San Franciscans
depend on out-of-town dollars for their livelihood.
Raising the hotel tax will discourage conventions from
coming to our City with terrible economic conse-
quences that would be felt in every neighborhood of
San Francisco.

Proponents will argue that the tax only affects visitors
but this vote is about local jobs, local businesses in
your neighborhood, and the vitality of our city's #1
industry: tourism. Fewer visitors mean fewer opportu-
nities for you, higher unemployment in the City, and a
serious stumbling block to the recovery of our local
economy.

Proposition J is wrong for our visitors, and it's wrong
for San Franciscans. Don't let San Francisco become
the city with the highest hotel tax in the country.

Vote no on Proposition J.

Building Owners and Managers Association of San
Francisco

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is BOMA - Building Owners & Managers Association of SF

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition J

Vote No on Proposition J —Protect Wages and Jobs

San Francisco's convention and visitor industry is
essential to the economic health of our City.This tax
hike will cost over 2,000 mostly union jobs and result
in $75 million in lost wages.

It will discourage visitors and businesses from coming
to San Francisco while putting us at a disadvantage
when competing with other cities for conventions and
other events.

If Proposition J passes, it will make San Francisco's
Hotel Tax the highest in the county, at 17.5%. New York
City increased its hotel tax to a similar amount with
disastrous results. Convention business plummeted,
costing the city millions of dollars. New York City was
forced to repeal their increase.

Join us in supporting the convention and visitor indus-
try in San Francisco. Vote NO on Proposition J and
help us keep out-of-town dollars flowing to the City.
The future of our local economy depends on your vote.

Please join us in voting NO on Proposition J.

The Hotel Council of San Francisco

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument
is Jim Ross Consulting.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

v_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________/

38-CP134-EN-N10

Municipal Election, the Department of Elections shall operate a
satellite location for early voting. as authorized by California Elections
Code section 3018. at each polling place which will be utilized for elec-
tion day voting on November 8. 2011.

(b)	The Department of Elections will not be required to operate
satellite locations for early voting at each polling place which will be
utilized for election day voting on November 8. 2011. if the Saturday
Voting Fund does not contain sufficient funds to cover the costs of oper-
atic the satellite locations. The determination regarding whether the
Saturday Voting Fund contains sufficient funds to cover the costs of
operating the satellite locations will be made by the Controller.
SECTION 702. SATURDAY VOTING AT FUTURE ELECTIONS.

(a)	The Department of Elections shall prepare a study of the effi-
cacy of Saturday voting, including the effect on voter turnout, impact on
working families. and educational benefits. to be completed no later
than February 1. 2012.

(b)	If this study shows that Saturday voting could further the
intent and purposes of the Act. then the voters urge the Department of
Elections. Elections Commission. Mayor, and Board of Supervisors to
take all necessary steps to develop and fund Saturday voting for future
elections in the City and County of San Francisco.

SECTION 3.

The San Francisco Administrative Code is hereby amended to
add a new Section 10-100.371 which will read as follows:

SECTION 10.100-371. ESTABLISHMENT OF SATURDAY
VOTING FUND.

(a)	Establishment of Fund. The Saturday Voting Fund is estab-
lished as a category eight fund into which shall be deposited all dona-
tions. grants, gifts, and bequests for the purpose of operating satellite
locations for early voting at polling places in the November 8. 2011
election. The acceptance of any gift of cash or goods into this fund
shall not be subject to the approval process required by section 10.100-
305.

(b)	Use of Fund. The monies received into the Saturday Voting
Fund are hereby appropriated exclusively to pay the necessary expenses
that the Department of Elections incurs in connection with the opera-
tion of the satellite locations for early voting at each polling place for
the November 8. 2011 election as required by Municipal Elections Code
section 701. Any monies remaining in the Fund after paying these nec-
essary expenses shall be used exclusively to develop and fund Saturday
voting for future elections.

(c)	Administration of Fund. The Director of the Department of
Elections shall submit a written report of all receipts and expenditures
of the Saturday Voting Fund to the Department of Elections. Elections
Commission, the Mayor, the Controller, and the Board o f Supervisors by
February 1. 2012.

(d)	Transparency. The Department of Elections shall post the
names of all donors and donation amounts to the Saturday Voting Fund
on its website within 15 days of receipt.

SECTION 4.

This Act shall be interpreted so as to be consistent with all feder-
al and state laws, rules, and regulations. If any section, sub-section,
sentence, or clause (“portion”) of this Act is held to be invalid or uncon-
stitutional by a final judgment of a court, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this Act. The voters hereby
declare that this Act, and each portion, would have been adopted irre-
spective of the fact that any one or more portions of the Act are found
invalid. If any portion of this Act is held invalid as applied to any per-
son or circumstance, such invalidity shall not affect any application of
this Act which can be given effect.

This Act shall be broadly construed to achieve the purposes stat-
ed in this Act. It is the intent of the voters that the provisions of this
Act be interpreted or implemented by the City and County, courts, and
others in a manner that facilitates the purposes set forth herein.

SECTION 5.

This Act shall become effective upon approval by the voters of
the City and County of San Francisco.

Proposition J

Ordinance amending Part III, Article 7 (Tax on Transient Occupancy of
Hotel Rooms), of the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code
by amending Section 501 (g) to define “Permanent Resident” as an indi-
vidual; adding Section 502.6-3, to impose a temporary additional sur-
charge on the hotel room tax for General Fund purposes measured as
two percent of the room rent, to sunset in 2014; and adding Section 507,
to clarify that the hotel room tax is imposed on the entire amount paid
to rent the room and that the person or persons receiving the rent,
regardless of their relationship to the hotel or the occupant, must collect
and remit the tax to the City.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman:
deletions are strike-through italics Times New Roman.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code is hereby amended by amending Section 501 and adding Sections
502.6-3 and 507, to read as follows:

SEC. 501. ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.

When used in this Article the following terms shall mean or
include:

(a)	“Operator.” Any person operating a hotel in the City and
County of San Francisco, including, but not limited to, the owner or
proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.

(b)	“Occupant.” A person who, for a consideration, uses, pos-
sesses, or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any
lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agree-
ment, or otherwise.

(c)	“Occupancy.” The use or possession, or the right to the use
or possession of any room or apartment in a hotel or the right to the use
or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room.

(d)	“Hotel.” Any structure, or any portion of a structure, includ-
ing any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor
hotel, studio hotel, motel, auto court, inn, public club, or private club,
containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or desig-
nated for occupation, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods,
labor, or otherwise. It does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sani-
tarium, orphanage, prison, detention, or other building in which human
beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.

(e)	“Guest Room.” A room occupied, or intended, arranged, or
designed for occupation, by one or more occupants. Every 100 square
feet of superficial floor area in a dormitory is a guest room.

(f)	“Rent.” The consideration received for occupancy valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts,
cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also
the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant,
without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.

(g)	“Permanent Resident.” Any occupant as of a given date who
is an individual and who has or shall have occupied, or has or shall
have the right of occupancy, of any guest room in a hotel for at least 30
consecutive days next preceding such date.

SEC. 502.6-3. IMPOSITION OF TWO PERCENT HOTEL TAX
SURCHARGE.

(a)	Effective January 1. 2011. there shall be a hotel tax sur-
charge o f two percent, in addition to the eight percent tax imposed in
Section 502. and the six percent surcharge imposed in Sections 502.6-1
and 502.6-2. on the rent for every occupancy of a guest room in a hotel
in the City and County of San Francisco. The surcharge so collected
shall be deposited in the General Fund and subject to appropriation
pursuant to the budgetary and fiscal provisions of the Charter. The City
may expend the proceeds for any lawful purpose.

(b)	Prorata Allocation of Surcharge. When rent is paid,
charged, billed or falls due on either a weekly, monthly or other term
basis, the rent so paid, charged, billed or falling due shall be subject to

38-CP184-EN-N10

a surcharge of six percent to the extent that it covers any portion of the
period prior to January 1. 2011. and an eight percent surcharge to the
extent that it covers am portion of the period on or after January 1.
2011. and such payment, charge, bill or rent due shall be apportioned
on the basis of the ratio of the number of days falling within said peri-
ods to the total number of days covered by such payment. Where any
surcharge has been paid hereunder upon any rent without any right of
occupancy there for, the Tax Collector may by regulation provide for
credit or refund of the amount of such tax upon application therefor as
provided in this Code.

(c)	Authority of the Board of Supervisors to Amend this Section.
The Board of Supervisors may reveal or amend this Section 502.6-3
without a vote of the People except as follows: under Article XIII C of
the California Constitution, only the voters may adopt any amendment
that increases the rate or extends the scope of the tax beyond the levels
or scope this Ordinance authorizes. The Board of Supervisors may
alter the rate of tax that this Section 502.6-3 imposes by setting it at any
rate that does not exceed the amount or rate the voters approved.

(d)	Term of Surcharge. The surcharge that this Section 502.6-3
imposes shall not extend beyond January 1. 2014.

SEC. 507. INTERPRETATION OF THE TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX.

Article 7. Tax on Transient Occupancy o f Hotel Rooms (TOT) o f
the San Francisco Municipal Code. Business and Tax Regulations Code.
(File No. 7573-2. Ord. 87-61) became effective on July 1. 1961. Article
7 imposes a transient occupancy tax on every occupancy of a guest
room in a hotel in the City and requires every occupant to pay the tax
along with the rent for the room. The rate o f the tax, plus surcharges
added subsequent to the original enactment of the tax, is currently 14
percent of the rent.

In enacting the Transient Occupancy Tax, the Board of
Supervisors intended that the entire consideration the occupant pays for
the room rental be subject to the tax and that the person or versons
receiving or collecting the taxable rent from the occupant, regardless of
their relationship to the hotel or the occupant, remit the tax to the City.
The voters of the City and County of San Francisco hereby ratify and
affirm the Board's original intent in enacting this Article 7.

Proposition K

Ordinance amending the San Francisco Business and Tax
Regulations Code by amending Section 6.2-13 of Article 6 -
Common Administrative Provisions, Section 501 of Article 7 - Tax
on Transient Occupancy of Hotel Rooms, and Section 601 of Article
9 - Tax on Occupancy of Parking Space in Parking Stations, to
amend and consolidate the definition of “Operator” and to clarify
who is responsible for collecting and remitting third-party taxes;
and amending Section 501 of Article 7 - Tax on Transient
Occupancy of Hotel Rooms, to specify that a “Permanent Resident”
is an individual.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman:
deletions are strike-through italics Times New Roman.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. Purpose. Article 7, Tax on Transient Occupancy of
Hotel Rooms, of the San Francisco Municipal Code, Business and Tax
Regulations Code, (File No. 7573-2, Ordinance No. 87-61) became
effective on July 1, 1961. Article 7 imposes a transient occupancy tax
(TOT) on every occupancy of a guest room in a hotel in the City and
County of San Francisco (“City”) and requires every occupant to pay
the tax along with the rent for the room. The entire consideration the
occupant pays is subject to the tax and the person receiving or collect-
ing the rent from the occupant must remit the tax to the City. The rate
of the tax, plus surcharges added subsequent to the original enactment
of the tax, is currently 14 percent of the rent.

In 2008, the City sought to collect TOT on the full amount of the
rent charged customers by on-line travel companies when hotel rooms

located in San Francisco are booked primarily on-line. The on-line
travel companies claimed that they are not required to pay the tax to the
City. They have initiated a lawsuit to obtain a refund of TOT that they
paid under protest. It is the City’s position that Article 7 currently
requires every person that receives or collects taxable room rent from an
occupant, regardless of their relationship to the hotel or occupant, to
also collect the TOT and remit it to the City. The purpose of this ordi-
nance is to clarify who is responsible for collecting and remitting TOT.
In addition, this ordinance amends and consolidates definitions of
“Operator” in Article 7 and Article 9 of the San Francisco Business and
Tax Regulations Code into one definition of “Operator” in Article 6.

This ordinance also specifies who may claim the “permanent res-
ident” exemption from the TOT. The tax has always included a perma-
nent resident exemption to ensure that low-income persons living in res-
idential hotels would not be required to pay the tax. The tax was
intended to be levied on business travelers, convention attendees, and
tourists. Nevertheless, under certain circumstances current law autho-
rizes corporations and business entities to claim the exemption.

Disputes about the validity of those claims by airlines whose flight
crews stay overnight in San Francisco hotels has resulted in costly liti-
gation. Even though the San Francisco Superior Court rejected the air-
lines’ claims of permanent resident status in 2006, the airlines continue
to claim they are exempt from the tax and to litigate their claims. The
purpose of this ordinance is to remove any basis for corporations and
business entities to claim a tax exemption meant to benefit low-income
persons living in residential hotels. This ordinance disallows corpora-
tions and other artificial entities from claiming the permanent resident
exemption under any circumstances, and allows only natural persons
(human beings) to claim the permanent resident exemption.

Section 2. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code is hereby amended by amending Sections 6.2-13, 501, and 601, to
read as follows:

SEC. 6.2-13. OPERATOR.

(a)	The term “Operator” means:

(1)	Any person who (A) receives any consideration from the
occupant: (B) conducts or controls a business subject to the tax on tran-
sient occupancy of hotel rooms in the City, including, but not limited to.
the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee
in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise conducting or
controlling such business: or (C) is the merchant of record in the trans-
action:

(2)	Any person who receives the consideration for the
occupancy of parking spaces in parking stations in the City, or who
conducts or controls a business subject to the tax on the occupancy of
parking spaces in parking stations in the City, including, but not limited
to. the owner or proprietor of such premises. lessee, sublessee, mort-
gagee in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise conducting
or controlling such business:

(3)	Any person conducting or controlling a business subject
to the stadium operator occupancy tax in the City:

(4)	Any service supplier required to collect the utility users
tax under Article 10: or

(5)	Any service supplier required to collect the access line
tax under Article 10B.

(b)	The receipt of consideration by an employee on behalf of an
employer shall not make the employee an operator, but such consider-
ation shall be considered consideration received by the employer.

The term “operator” means any person conducting or control-
ling a business subject to the tax on transient occupancy of hotel rooms
or the tax on occupancy of parking spaces in parking stations in the
Gity, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such prem-
ises, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other-
person otherwise conducting or controlling such business. “Operator”
shall also include any person conducting or controlling a business sub-
ject to the stadium operator occupancy tax in the City, as well as any
service supplier required to collect the utility users tax under Article 10
or the emergency response fee under Article 10A.

38-CP185-EN-N10