ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

A vote for Measure F is a vote For the Future of American Canyon! Measure F imposes a $2
admissions fee to card room patrons in the City. That’s right, card room patrons. No one else!

The dire budget mess in the Capitol has found its way to American Canyon like it has in other
cities and counties in California. That and the sour real estate market have left the City of
American Canyon with a $1.6 million deficit that will only worsen if nothing is done. Measure F
will help fill that budget gap.

More than 100,000 people visit the local card room here in American Canyon annually. We very
much appreciate the tourism. However, it is not without its impacts and just like all visitors they
will surely require City services, will impact our roadways and certainly affect our quality of life.
Two dollars per visit is surely a fair and reasonable way to keep our City healthy. Hotels and
inns in American Canyon have been willingly paying a tax (Transit Occupancy Tax) on their
guests for years to do their part to support City services. Fair is Fair.

Approving Measure F could mean more than $200,000 for the City’s budget. Without these
funds, the City is going to have further cut much needed services such as public safety,
transportation maintenance, parks, libraries and senior services. This is why Napa County
Sherriff Doug Koford supports Measure F.

The City currently collects $2 for the benefit and pleasure of swimming at the Philip West
Aquatic Center. Voting for Measure F will allow the City to collect the exact same amount for
those visiting a card room in American Canyon.

Measure Fisa Fair solution For our Future.

s/Michael Simmons, Deacon, City of American Canyon
s/Keith Caldwell, Napa County Supervisor, District 5
s/Leon Garcia, Mayor, City of American Canyon
s/Craig Wong, Police Officer, City of American Canyon
s/Anthony Quicho, Community Leader, City of American Canyon

ORDINANCE #2010-11

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF AMERICAN CANYON AMENDING CHAPTER
5.12 ENTITLED “CARDROOMS” BY ADDING SECTIONS 5.12.230 THROUGH

5.12.380	OF THE AMERICAN CANYON MUNICIPAL CODE ESTABLISHING A NEW
CARDROOM ADMISSION TAX OF $2.00 PER PATRON

WHEREAS, this Ordinance is exempt from environmental review pursuant to Section
15378(b)(4) of the State Guidelines implementing the California Environmental Quality
Act of 1970, as amended (“CEQA”), because the submittal of a proposal to a vote of the
people of the state or a particular community is not a “project” for purposes of the
CEQA.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF AMERICAN DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION I

Chapter 5.12 of the American Canyon Municipal Code entitled “Cardrooms” is hereby
amended by adding new Sections 5.12.230 through 5.12.380 to read as follows:

“5.12.230 Purpose and Intent.

Chapter 5.12, Sections 5.12.230 through 5.12.380 (hereinafter referred to as “Cardroom
Admission Tax Provisions”), are enacted solely to raise revenue for municipal purposes
and is not intended for regulation.

5.12.240 Definitions.

The words and phrases used in the Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions shall have the
meaning prescribed to them in Chapter 5.12 unless they are specifically defined in
these Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions or unless the context clearly requires to the
contrary:

A.	“Cardroom Admission Tax” (or “tax”) shall mean any charge, whether or not so
designated, for the right or privilege to enter, occupy, or use a seat or space in a
cardroom establishment as hereinafter defined, or to participate as a patron in any
cardroom event.

B.	“Cardroom establishment” shall mean and include any building, structure, place
or location wherein cardroom activities take place pursuant to Chapter 5.12 of the
American Canyon Municipal Code.

C.	“Cardroom event” shall mean any card games, cardroom activities or cardroom
tournaments permitted by Chapter 5.12 of the American Canyon Municipal Code and/or
the California Business and Professions Code section 19800 et seq., and the state of
California Department of Justice Division of Gambling Control.

D.	“Equipment” shall mean those devices approved by the City to account, monitor
and calculate each and every patron being admitted to or to use any cardroom
establishment, or to participate in any cardroom event.

E.	“Patron” shall mean any person who pays or on account of whom is paid any
admission tax, charge or admission price for the right or privilege of being admitted to or
to use any cardroom establishment, or to participate in any cardroom event. The term
“patron” shall not include (i) a bona fide employee of the operator when admission to the
facility is incident to said employee’s duties, and (ii) any employee or official of the state
of California, or any agency, instrumentality or department thereof, the City, or United
States Government, whose official duty makes it necessary to gain admission to any
event.

F.	“Permittee” shall mean a person who has been issued a cardroom permit under
Chapter 5.12 of the American Canyon Municipal Code.

5.12.250	Payment of Tax.

A.	Effective January 1, 2011, each patron entering into a cardroom establishment
shall pay a Cardroom Admission Tax of two-dollars ($2.00) per patron for the right or
privilege of being admitted to or to use any cardroom establishment, or to participate in
any cardroom event within a twelve (12) hour period.

B.	The tax imposed by the Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions of this chapter is in
addition to any other tax, license or permit fee that may be required of any person by
the American Canyon Municipal Code or any other ordinance of the city.

C.	All taxes, interest and penalties received pursuant to the Cardroom Admission
Tax Provisions shall be deposited in the general fund.

5.12.260	Audit of Reports.

A.	The books records and accounts of any permittee may be inspected and audited
by the city.

B.	Such an inspection and audit may be performed by the director of finance, city
auditor or a qualified accountant or city official who shall be selected by the director of
finance.

C.	Any failure or refusal of any permittee to pay such sums by way of taxes when
the same are due and payable in accordance with the Cardroom Admission Tax
Provisions of this chapter, or to permit such inspection of such books, records and
accounts of such permittee shall be and constitute full and sufficient grounds for
suspension or revocation of any cardroom permit issued to the permittee pursuant to
Section 5.12.090.

5.12.265 Cardroom Admission Tax Exemption.

Provided that the permittee has entered into a Development Agreement pursuant to
Government Code section 65864 et seq. with the city, for any related expansion of the
permittee’s cardroom premises, or any increase in the number of cardroom tables
allowed, or any intensification of use of the premises, the payment schedule of the
Development Agreement shall apply and the city shall not impose the Cardroom
Admission Tax.

5.12.270 Payment - Time limits.

A.	All taxes imposed by the Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions of this chapter
shall be due and payable on the first (1st) day of the calendar quarter in which the tax
was first paid.

B.	In the case of a cardroom which is discontinued, dissolved or otherwise
terminated before the expiration of a tax period, the due date for any taxes accrued and
owing to the city under the Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions of this chapter shall be
the date of termination of the cardroom business.

5.12.280 Payments and communications made by mail.

A.	Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication
received by the director of finance is received after the time prescribed by the Cardroom
Admission Tax Provisions of this chapter for the receipt thereof, but is in an envelope
bearing a postmark showing that it was mailed prior to the time prescribed in this
chapter for the receipt thereof, the director of finance may regard such payment,
statement, report, request or other communication as having been timely received.

B.	If the due day falls on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, the due day shall be the
next regular business day on which city hall is open to the public.

5.12.290	When taxes deemed delinquent.

Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this chapter, all taxes
required to be paid pursuant to the Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed delinquent if not paid on or before the due date specified in Section
5.12.270.

5.12.300	Notice not required by city.

The director of finance is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any
permittee subject to the Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions of this chapter, and failure
to send such notice or bill shall not affect the validity of any tax, interest or penalty due
under the provisions of this chapter.

5.12.310 Delinquency, penalties and interest.

In addition to any other penalties or fines, civil or criminal, any permittee who fails or
refuses to pay any tax required to be paid pursuant to the Cardroom Admission Tax
Provisions of this chapter on or before the due date shall pay, in addition to the tax,
penalties and interest as follows:

A.	A penalty equal to ten percent (10%) of the amount of the unpaid tax in addition
to the amount of the tax, plus interest of one and one-half percent (1 /4%) per month or
fraction thereof on the amount of tax, exclusive of penalties, on the unpaid tax
calculated from the due date of the tax until the date of payment.

5.12.320	Rules and regulations; apportionment.

For purposes of apportionment of the tax as may be required by law and for purposes of
administration and enforcement of the Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions of this
chapter generally, the director of finance may from time to time promulgate
administrative rules and regulations.

5.12.330	Tax deemed debt to city.

The amount of any tax, penalties and interest imposed by the Cardroom Admission Tax
Provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt to the city, and any permittee carrying
on any business without having paid the tax under the Cardroom Admission Tax
Provisions of this chapter to the city shall be liable to an action in the name of the city
and in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the tax, and penalties and
interest imposed on such business.

5.12.340	Deficiency determinations.

A.	If the director of finance is not satisfied that the amount of tax is correctly
computed, the director may compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a
deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts contained in the statement or upon
the basis of any information in the director’s possession or that may come into the
director’s possession.

B.	One or more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for period or
periods may be made.

C.	When a permittee discontinues engaging in a cardroom business, a deficiency
determination may be made at any time within three (3) years thereafter as to any
liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency
determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due.

D.	Whenever a deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be given to the
permittee concerned in the same manner as notices of assessment are given under
Section 5.12.360.

5.12.350 Tax assessment; nonpayment; fraud.

A.	Under any of the following circumstances, the director of finance may make and
give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a permittee under the
Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions of this chapter:

1.	If the permittee has not paid any tax due under the Cardroom Admission
Tax Provisions of this chapter;

2.	If the permittee has not, after demand by the director of finance, paid any
additional amount of tax due under the Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions of this
chapter;

3.	If the director of finance determines that the nonpayment of any tax due
under the Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions of this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty
of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto from the
date the tax is due in addition to penalties and interest otherwise stated in the Cardroom
Admission Tax Provisions of this chapter.

B.	The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax known
or estimated by the director of finance to be due, after full consideration of all
information within his or her knowledge concerning the cardroom business and activities
of the permittee assessed and shall include the amount of any penalties or interest
accrued on each amount to the date of the notice of assessment.

5.12.360	Tax assessment; notice requirements.

The notice of assessment shall be served upon the permittee either by handing it to the
permittee personally, or by a deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid thereon, addressed to the permittee at the address of the location of the
business appearing on the face of the permit issued under Chapter 5.12 to the
permittee or to such other address as he or she shall register with the director of finance
for the purpose of receiving notices provided under this chapter. For the purposes of
this section, a service by mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States
mail.

5.12.370	Tax assessment; hearing.

A.	Within ten (10) days after the date of service, the permittee may apply in writing
to the director of finance for a hearing on the assessment.

B.	If application for a hearing before the director of finance is not made within the
time herein prescribed, the tax assessed by the director of finance shall become final
and conclusive.

C.	Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of any such application for hearing, the
director of finance shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before him or her not later
than thirty (30) days after the date of application, unless a later date is agreed to by the
director of finance and the permittee requesting the hearing.

D.	Notice of such hearing shall be given by the director of finance to the permittee
requesting such hearing not later than five (5) days prior to such hearing. At such
hearing said permittee may appear and offer evidence why the assessment as made by
the director of finance should not be confirmed and fixed as a tax.

E.	After such hearing the director of finance shall determine and reassess the
proper tax to be charged and shall give written notice thereof to the permittee in the
manner prescribed in Section 5.12.350 for giving notice of assessment.

5.12.380	Conviction for chapter violation; taxes not waived.

A.	The conviction and punishment of any permittee for failure to pay the required tax
shall not excuse or exempt such permittee from any civil action for the tax debt unpaid
at the time of such conviction.

B.	No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the
provisions of this chapter or of any state law requiring the payment of all taxes.”

SECTION II

The qualified voters of the City of American Canyon reserve the right to change the
general tax herein enacted and imposed by this Ordinance. The City Council may
modify this Ordinance without a vote of the people but not to increase the tax rate or to
expand the application of said tax.

SECTION ill

This Ordinance, being for the imposition of a new general tax, shall be submitted to a
vote of the people at the City’s general municipal election scheduled for November 2,
2010. This Ordinance shall become valid and binding if a majority of the voters voting
thereon vote in its favor at said election and shall be effective on the date that the City
Council certifies the results of said election. If the provisions of Government Code
Sections 53720 et seq. or Article XIIIC of the California Constitution are duly repealed or
amended, or interpreted by the courts so that a vote of the people is not required for
enactment of this Ordinance, then this Ordinance shall take effect as provided for all
other City ordinances and may be amended in the same manner as all other City
ordinances.

SECTION IV

If any section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase of this Ordinance or the
application thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision
of any court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance, the application thereof, and the general taxes imposed shall not be affected
thereby but shall remain in full force and effect, it being the intention of the voters to
adopt each and every section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase regardless
of whether any other section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase or the
application thereof is held to be invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION V

This Ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect as provided by law on December 17,
2010.

SECTION VI

This Ordinance is enacted by the electorate at the general municipal election on November 2,
2010 and accepted by the City Council on December 7, 2010 and is effective December 17,
2010.

ORDINANCE #2013- 05

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF AMERICAN CANYON AMENDING SECTIONS
5.12.230 THROUGH 5.12.380 (CARDROOM ADMISSION TAX PROVISIONS) OF
CHAPTER 5.12 (CARDROOMS) OF THE AMERICAN CANYON MUNICIPAL CODE,
CHANGING THE DESIGNATION OF THE CARDROOM ADMISSION TAX TO A
GROSS RECEIPTS TAX IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AND STIPULATION FOR ENTRY OF JUDGMENT IN
BVK GAMING, INC. V. CITY OF AMERICAN CANYON, ETAL. (NAPA COUNTY
SUPERIOR COURT CASE NO. 26-57480)

WHEREAS, in November 2010, the voters of the City of American Canyon
(“City”) approved Measure F, which called for a two dollar, per patron, admissions tax
for the right or privilege to enter, occupy, or use a seat or space in a card room
establishment in the City (“Admissions Tax”); and

WHEREAS, the City implemented Measure F by adding Sections 5.12.230
through 5.12.380 to the City’s Municipal Code (“Code”), effective January 1, 2011; and

WHEREAS, BVK Gaming, Inc. (“BVK”) owns and operates Napa Valley Casino
(“NVC”), which is the only cardroom in the City; and

WHEREAS, in 2011, the City filed a criminal action against BVK for its failure to
comply with the Admissions Tax, and BVK subsequently filed a civil case against the
City challenging the validity of the Admissions Tax; and

WHEREAS, in an effort to settle the aforementioned disputes, BVK and the City
entered into a Settlement Agreement and Stipulation for Entry of Judgment (“Settlement
Agreement”), whereby the parties agreed that the City would amend its Municipal Code
to change the Admissions Tax to a Gross Receipts Tax. Under the provisions of the
Gross Receipts Tax, card rooms shall pay to the City, 2.5 percent of their gross table
gaming revenue for each quarter, beginning in the first quarter of 2013; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the Gross
Receipts Tax shall increase to 3.0 percent effective upon the earlier of either of the
following:

1.	March 27, 2017; or

2.	One year after the City authorizes cardroom operators to operate 16 card
tables in the City; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of Section II of Measure F, the City Council is
permitted to modify the Ordinance without a vote of the people, but not to increase the
tax rate or expand the application of the cardroom tax; and

WHEREAS, the City has determined that the change from an Admission Tax to a
Gross Receipts Tax maintains the intent of the City’s electorate in generating revenue,
through the passage of Measure F; and

WHEREAS, the purpose of the proposed ordinance is to establish a government
funding mechanism for general City purposes, and the City is not committing to a
course of action with respect to the tax revenue and therefore the ordinance is not a
“project” subject to CEQA as defined in Section 15378, subdivision (b)(4) of the CEQA
Guidelines. Full compliance with CEQA would occur prior to any approval of a project
deemed subject to CEQA, funded in whole or in part from the tax revenue generated
from this ordinance.

NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF AMERICAN CANYON
DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION I

Sections 5.12.230 through 5.12.380 (Cardroom Admission Tax Provisions) of Chapter
5.12 (Cardrooms) of the American Canyon Municipal Code are hereby amended to read
in their entirety as follows:

“5.12.230 Purpose and Intent

Chapter 5.12, Sections 5.12.230 through 5.12.380 (hereinafter referred to as “Cardroom
Tax Provisions”), are enacted solely to raise revenue for municipal purposes and are
not intended for regulation.

5.12.240 Definitions.

The words and phrases used in the Cardroom Tax Provisions shall have the meaning
prescribed to them in this Section unless they are specifically defined in these
Cardroom Tax Provisions or unless the context clearly requires to the contrary:

“Cardroom establishment” means and includes any building, structure, place or
location wherein cardroom activities take place pursuant to this chapter of the American
Canyon Municipal Code.

“Cardroom event" means any card games, cardroom activities or cardroom
tournaments permitted by this chapter and/or the California Business and Professions
Code Section 19800 et seq., and the State of California Department of Justice Division
of Gambling Control.

“Gross receipts tax" or “tax” means a tax on a card room’s gross revenues for
each quarter, beginning January 1, 2013.

“Gross revenues" means the definition of “gross table gaming revenue” as
reported to the California Gambling Control Commission and the California Department
of Justice Bureau of Gaming Control.

“Permittee" means a person who has been issued a cardroom permit under this
chapter.

5.12.250	Payment of Tax.

A.	Effective January 1, 2013, each cardroom establishment shall pay to the
city, on a quarterly basis, a gross receipts tax of 2.5 percent of its quarterly gross
revenues.

B.	The gross receipts tax shall increase to 3.0 percent, effective upon the
earlier of either of the following dates:

1.	March 27, 2017; or

2.	One year after the city authorizes cardroom operators in the city to
operate 16 tables.

C.	The tax imposed by the gross receipts tax provisions of this chapter is in
addition to any other tax, license or permit fee that may be required of any person by
the American Canyon Municipal Code or any other ordinance of the city.

D.	All taxes, interest and penalties received pursuant to the gross receipts tax
provisions shall be deposited in the general fund.

5.12.255	Statement of Revenues.

Before the 30th day following the end of each quarter, the licensee shall file with the city
finance department, a statement, under oath, showing the true and correct amount of
gross revenues for the preceding quarter. A signed declaration shall be attached to the
statement included therein, which shall be in substantially the same form as: “I hereby
declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct." Pursuant to
Section 5.12.260 of this chapter, the city shall have the right to audit matters reported in
the statement to determine the accuracy of the figures contained therein.

5.12.260	Audit of Reports.

A.	The books, records, statements and accounts of any permittee may be
inspected and audited by the city.

B.	Such an inspection and audit may be performed by the director of finance,
city auditor or a qualified accountant or city official who shall be selected by the director
of finance.

C.	Any failure or refusal of any permittee to pay such sums by way of taxes
when the same are due and payable in accordance with the gross receipts tax
provisions of this chapter, or to permit such inspection of such books, records and
accounts of such permittee shall be and constitute full and sufficient grounds for
suspension or revocation of any cardroom permit issued to the permittee pursuant to
Section 5.12.090.

5.12.265 Gross Receipts Tax Exemption.

Provided that the permittee has entered into a development agreement pursuant to
Government Code Section 65864 et seq., with the city, for any related expansion of the

permittee’s cardroom premises, or any increase in the number of cardroom tables
allowed, or any intensification of use of the premises, the payment schedule of the
development agreement shall apply and the city shall not impose the gross receipts tax.

5.12.270 Payment-Time limits.

A.	All taxes imposed by the gross receipts tax provisions of this chapter shall
be due and payable within 30 days of the end of each quarter.

B.	In the case of a cardroom which is discontinued, dissolved or otherwise
terminated before the expiration of a tax period, the due date for any taxes accrued and
owing to the city under the gross receipts tax provisions of this chapter shall be the date
of termination of the cardroom business.

5.12.280 Payments and communications made by mail.

A.	Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other
communication received by the director of finance is received after the time prescribed
by the gross receipts tax provisions of this chapter for the receipt thereof, but is in an
envelope bearing a postmark showing that it was mailed prior to the time prescribed in
this chapter for the receipt thereof, the director of finance may regard such payment,
statement, report, request or other communication as having been timely received.

B.	If the due day falls on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, the due day shall be
the next regular business day on which City Hall is open to the public.

5.12.290	When taxes deemed delinquent.

Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this chapter, all taxes
required to be paid pursuant to the gross receipts tax provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed delinquent if not paid on or before the due date specified in Section 5.12.270.

5.12.300 Notice not required by city.

The director of finance is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any
permittee subject to the gross receipts tax provisions of this chapter, and failure to send
such notice or bill shall not affect the validity of any tax, interest or penalty due under
the provisions of this chapter.

5.12.310	Penalty and Interest for delinquency.

In addition to any other penalties or fines, civil or criminal, any permittee who fails or
refuses to pay any tax required to be paid pursuant to the gross receipts tax provisions
of this chapter on or before the due date shall pay, in addition to the tax, penalties and
interest as follows:

A penalty equal to ten percent of the amount of the unpaid tax in addition to the amount
of the tax, plus interest of one and one-half percent per month or fraction thereof on the
amount of tax, exclusive of penalties, on the unpaid tax calculated from the due date of
the tax until the date of payment.

5.12.320 Rules and regulations; apportionment

For purposes of apportionment of the tax as may be required by law and for purposes of
administration and enforcement of the gross receipts tax provisions of this chapter
generally, the director of finance may from time to time promulgate administrative rules
and regulations.

5.12.330	Tax deemed debt to city.

The amount of any tax, penalties and interest imposed by the gross receipts tax
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt to the city, and any permittee carrying
on any business without having paid the tax under the gross receipts tax provisions of
this chapter to the city shall be liable to an action in the name of the city and in any court
of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the tax, and penalties and interest imposed
on such business.

5.12.340	Deficiency determinations.

A.	If the director of finance is not satisfied that the amount of tax is correctly
computed, the director may compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a
deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts contained in the statement or upon
the basis of any information in the director’s possession or that may come into the
director’s possession.

B.	One or more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for period
or periods may be made.

C.	When a permittee discontinues engaging in a cardroom business, a
deficiency determination may be made at any time within three years thereafter as to
any liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency
determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due.

D.	Whenever a deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be given to the
permittee concerned in the same manner as notices of assessment are given under
Section 5.12.360.

5.12.350 Tax assessment; nonpayment; fraud.

A. Under any of the following circumstances, the director of finance may
make and give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a permittee under
the gross receipts tax provisions of this chapter:

1.	If the permittee has not paid any tax due under the gross receipts tax
provisions of this chapter;

2.	If the permittee has not, after demand by the director of finance, paid any
additional amount of tax due under the gross receipts tax provisions of this chapter;

3.	If the director of finance determines that the nonpayment of any tax due
under the gross receipts tax provisions of this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of
twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto from the date the tax

is due in addition to penalties and interest otherwise stated in the gross receipts tax
provisions of this chapter.

B. The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax
known or estimated by the director of finance to be due, after full consideration of all
information within his or her knowledge concerning the cardroom business and activities
of the permittee assessed and shall include the amount of any penalties or interest
accrued on each amount to the date of the notice of assessment.

5.12.360	Tax assessment; notice requirements.

The notice of assessment shall be served upon the permittee either by handing it to the
permittee personally, or by a deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid thereon, addressed to the permittee at the address of the location of the
business appearing on the face of the permit issued under this chapter to the permittee
or to such other address as he or she shall register with the director of finance for the
purpose of receiving notices provided under this chapter. For the purposes of this
Section, a service by mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.

5.12.370	Tax assessment; hearing.

A.	Within ten days after the date of service, the permittee may apply in
writing to the director of finance for a hearing on the assessment.

B.	If application for a hearing before the director of finance is not made within
the time herein prescribed, the tax assessed by the director of finance shall become
final and conclusive.

C.	Within thirty days of the receipt of any such application for hearing, the
director of finance shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before him or her not later
than thirty days after the date of application, unless a later date is agreed to by the
director of finance and the permittee requesting the hearing.

D.	Notice of such hearing shall be given by the director of finance to the
permittee requesting such hearing not later than five days prior to such hearing. At such
hearing said permittee may appear and offer evidence why the assessment as made by
the director of finance should not be confirmed and fixed as a tax.

E.	After such hearing the director of finance shall determine and reassess the
proper tax to be charged and shall give written notice thereof to the permittee in the
manner prescribed in Section 5.12.350 for giving notice of assessment.

5.12.380	Conviction for chapter violation; taxes not waived.

A.	The conviction and punishment of any permittee for failure to pay the
required tax shall not excuse or exempt such permittee from any civil action for the tax
debt unpaid at the time of such conviction.

B.	No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the
provisions of this chapter or of any state law requiring the payment of all taxes.”

SECTION II

The provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable. If any portion is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, the remainder shall survive and remain effective and
enforceable.

SECTION III

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after its adoption.

SECTION IV

The City Council finds that this Ordinance is exempt from review under the California
Environmental Quality Act (“GEQA”) because the purpose of the proposed ordinance is
to establish a government funding mechanism for general City purposes, and the City is
not committing to a course of action with respect to the tax revenue and therefore the
ordinance is not a “project” subject to CEQA as defined in Section 15378, subdivision
(b)(4) of the CEQA Guidelines. Full compliance with CEQA would occur prior to any
approval of a project deemed subject to CEQA, funded in whole or in part from the tax
revenue generated from this ordinance.

SECTION V

The foregoing Ordinance was introduced and read at the regular meeting of the City
Council of the City of American Canyon, State of California, held on the 21st day of
May, 2013 and approved and adopted at a regular meeting on the 4th day of June,
2013.

MAYOR GARCIA:

VICE MAYOR JOSEPH:

COUNCIL MEMBER J. BENNETT:

COUNCIL MEMBER B. BENNETT:

COUNCIL MEMBER K. LEARY:

Rebekah Barr, MMC, City Clerk

" H (A*
Leon Garcia, Mayor

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

William D. Ross, City Attorney