TOWN OF FAIRFAX MEASURE D	
MEASURE D: Shall there be a ■ continuation of the special tax for ■paramedic services in the amount of $42.50 not exceeding $51.50 in the fourth year per taxable living unit or per feet of structure of each developed parce dential use, to be collected in addition to t charged to insurance providers for Ross dents, with the appropriations limit mere amount of said tax for the next four years'.	YES
	NO
	1,500 square I in nonresi- ransport fees Valley resi- ased by the

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE D

TOWN OF FAIRFAX
SPECIAL TAX FOR PARAMEDIC SERVICES

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the spe-
cial tax for paramedic services administered by a Joint
Powers Authority originally authorized by the voters on
June 7, 1983 and reconhrmed by the voters on November
6, 1998, will be continued with a tax of $42.50 increasing
by $3.00 per year not to exceed $51.50 in the fourth year
for each taxable living unit or per 1,500 square feet of
structure of each developed parcel in non-residential use.
By approval of this Measure the appropriations limit
established in the Town of Fairfax pursuant to Article XIII
B of the California Constitution will be increased in an
amount equal to the proceeds of the special tax. The spe-
cial tax and corresponding increase in the appropriations
limit expire on June 30, 2015.

s/JIM R. KARPIAK
Town Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Since 1982, the voters in the Ross Valley have over-
whelmingly approved a special tax to provide Fire Depart-
ment paramedic service. To continue this high standard of
emergency medical care for four more years, you must
now re-approve this measure. The initial Ross Valley
Paramedic Authority (RVPA) tax provides for a single
ambulance. The demand for paramedic service from our
citizens dictates that service levels continue to expand and
evolve.

In an effort to minimize the burden on our citizens, the
RVPA has not raised the tax as previously scheduled. Each
year over the past four years, the tax was scheduled to
incrementally increase to a maximum of $48 per living
unit and for each 1,500 square feet of non-residential
developed space. However, we have been able to keep the
tax at a rate of only $42 and meet our cost expectations
while continuing to improve service levels with the addi-
tion of paramedic engine companies and furnishing all
Ross Valley fire agencies with new defibrillation equip-
ment. We again ask that you continue the tax at the $42
rate with the ability, if needed, to raise the tax incremen-
tally each year by $3 to a rate not to exceed $51 (plus fifty
cents County administrative fee) in the fourth year.

Your tax pays for a significant portion of the paramedic
program. Additional funds are collected from medical
insurance companies through a program known as third
party billing, and from billing of non-resident customers.
In addition, your tax covers paramedic training, the cost of
medical supplies and equipment, and the replacement of
ambulance transport units when needed.

Our goal is to continue to provide state of the art para-
medic care in the Ross Valley. We need your vote to con-
tinue this vital service. Vote YES on Measure “D”.
s/FRANK EGGER
Ross Valley Paramedic Authority Board Member
s/MICHELLE PERRO, MD
Down to Earth Pediatrics
s/PAMELA MEIGS, RN
Registered Nurse
s/LARRY BRAGMAN
Vice-Mayor - Town of Fairfax
s/ICATHRYN SEXTON M.D.

Physician

FXM-1

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D
WAS FILED.