Measure H: School Parcel Tax, Mount Pleasant Elementary School District

Continue improving the quality of local elementary schools by protecting reading, math and science programs, restoring libraries, music/art, retaining qualified teachers, including those for students with special needs and tutoring programs, maintaining updated classroom materials/computer technology, and reduce class size, shall Mount Pleasant Elementary School District levy an annual education tax of $95 per parcel for five years with an exemption for seniors, no funds for administrator's salaries, independent citizen oversight and all funds benefiting local schools?

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
A school district, following notice and a public hearing, has authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and sections 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 of the California Government Code.
The Board of Trustees of the Mount Pleasant Elementary School District (Board) proposes levying a qualified special tax on each parcel within the district. The owners of each parcel of taxable real property in the district would annually pay $95 per parcel for a period of 5 years, beginning July 1, 2010. None of this money would be used for administrators' salaries or benefits.
The purpose of the tax proposed by Measure H is to: maintain important programs in reading, math and science; retain qualified teachers, including those trained to support children with special needs; provide tutoring programs; provide a well-rounded education, including technology, libraries, music and art; provide up-to-date textbooks and computer learning technology; and reduce class size.
Any person, age 65 and over, or who is on Supplemental Security Income, who owns a parcel and occupies the parcel as a principal residence, may be exempted from the special tax upon application to the school district. The school district shall make the final determination as to the applicability of this exemption and provide the County of Santa Clara tax collector with a list of parcels the district has approved for this exemption.
The proceeds of the tax would be deposited into a separate fund. These proceeds would be applied to the purposes identified above, and an annual written report would be made to the Board showing the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the tax, and the status of any projects, programs or purposes authorized to be funded. By law, this report must be filed on or after January 1st of each year. Additionally, if the special tax is approved, the Board would appoint an independent citizen oversight committee to monitor the expenditure of funds and to report to the Board and community on an annual basis on how the funds have been spent.
A "yes" vote on Measure H is a vote to approve a qualified special tax in the amount of $95 per parcel on parcels within the district for a five-year period of time.
A "no" vote on Measure H is a vote not to approve the qualified special tax in the amount of $95 per parcel on parcels within the district for a five-year period of time.
Miguel Marquez  Acting County Counsel  By: /s/ Susan Swain  Senior Lead Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure H
Vote Yes on Measure H to continue improving student achievement in our local, neighborhood Mount Pleasant elementary and middle schools.
With strong academic programs in math, science, reading and writing, tutoring programs, and qualified teachers who help all students, including those with special needs, local students are achieving strong scores on statewide exams. In fact, local student test scores are consistently above the state target for academic performance each year.
Yet, state budget cuts are threatening our schools and student success. The state is simply an unreliable partner when it comes to funding public education in our community. That is why Measure H is important for the children in our neighborhoods.
Measure H will provide stable, local funding for elementary and middle schools to support academics and teachers. Not one dime of Measure H can be taken away by the state.
Vote Yes on Measure H to:
	•	Maintain reading, writing, math, science and tutoring programs
	•	Retain teachers, including those who are trained to support children with special needs
	•	Protect a well-rounded education, including technology, music and art
	•	Re-open school libraries
	•	Provide up-to-date textbooks and other instructional materials
	•	Keep class sizes small in kindergarten through third grades 
Measure H contains fiscal accountability provisions.
	•	All funds will stay in our local elementary and middle schools and can not be taken by the state
	•	No funds will be used for administrators' salaries
	•	Expires in 5 years and can not be renewed without voter approval
	•	A citizen oversight committee will ensure funds are used wisely to support student achievement
	•	Senior citizens can receive an exemption Our schools are part of our community and help keep our neighborhoods strong. That is why parents, teachers and community leaders are supporting Measure H--to continue student achievement. Please join us and vote Yes on Measure H. 
/s/ Isaiah N. White 
Retiree 
/s/ Charles G Dietz 
Mt. Pleasant Education Association 
/s/ Monica Perez 
Mt. Pleasant School District PTA Council President 
/s/ Norman Marlatt 
50-year Resident 
/s/ Jim C. Cogan 
Silicon Valley Crime Stoppers, President

(No arguments against Measure H were submitted)

Full Text of Measure H
MOUNT PLEASANT SCHOOLS QUALITY EDUCATION MEASURE H 
Mount Pleasant Elementary School District
INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE
To maintain important programs in reading, math and science, retain qualified teachers, including those who are trained to support children with special needs, provide tutoring programs, provide a well-rounded education, including technology, libraries, music and art, provide up-to-date textbooks and computer learning technology, and reduce class size, the Mount Pleasant Elementary School District (K-8) proposes to establish an education parcel tax for a period of 5 years, beginning July 1, 2010, at the rate of $95 per year, on each assessor's parcel located within the Mount Pleasant Elementary School District, with an exemption available for senior citizens and persons on Supplemental Security Income, and to implement accountability measures in connection with the temporary levy that are over and above those required by law, including the appointment of an independent citizen oversight committee to provide oversight and accountability to ensure the funds are used to:
	•	maintain important programs in reading, math and science; 
	•	retain qualified teachers, including those who are trained to support children with special needs; 
	•	provide tutoring programs; 
	•	provide a well-rounded education, including technology, libraries, music and art; 
	•	provide up-to-date textbooks and computer learning technology; and 
	•	reduce class size. 
AMOUNT OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT The education parcel tax shall be $95 (or less as provided below) per year for five (5) full years assessed against each parcel.
The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the District.
DEFINITION OF "PARCEL" For purposes of the special tax, the term "Parcel" means any parcel of land, which lies wholly, or partially within the boundaries of the Mount Pleasant Elementary School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax in such year.
CONSOLIDATION FOR CONTIGUOUS PARCELS For purposes of this special tax, any such "Parcels" which are (i) contiguous, (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by annually submitting an application of the owners thereof by July 1 of any year to the Board of Trustees of the Mount Pleasant Elementary School be treated as a single "parcel" for purposes of the levy of this education parcel tax.
EXEMPTION OF SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either (a) 65 years of age or older or (b) persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from the education parcel tax for that fiscal year by annually submitting an application, by July 1 of any year, to the Board of Trustees of the Mount Pleasant Elementary School District.
With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector, or other appropriate County tax officials shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the education parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen and SSI Exemptions and the classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.
REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT The collection of the education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal government sources that would otherwise be available to the Mount Pleasant Elementary School District during the period of the education parcel tax. In the event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the Mount Pleasant Elementary School District shall cease the levy or shall reduce the education parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.
ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the education parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the education parcel tax, as identified above.
In addition to the accountability measures required by law, an independent citizen oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The oversight committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds have been spent.