AGENDA ITEM NO. 10.5

CITY OF ELK GROVE

CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT

AGENDA TITLE:

Introduce Ordinance Amending Municipal
Code Chapter 3.40 Relating to Utility User
Tax

MEETING DATE:

May 26, 2010

PREPARED BY:

Katy Baumbach, Budget Manager

DEPARTMENT HEAD:	Becky	Craig,	Assistant	City	Manager

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

Staff recommends the City Council introduce an ordinance amending
chapter 3.40 of the Elk Grove Municipal Code to modernize the language to
reflect technological advances and reduce the tax rate from 2.50% to
2.25%. This ordinance is provisional and will not take effect unless
approved by voters on the November 2010 ballot.

BACKGROUND INFORMATION:

Upon incorporation, the City of Elk Grove adopted the County of
Sacramento’s existing Utility User Tax (UUT) (Ordinance 2000-7), which
levies a 2.5% tax on gas, electric, communications, and sewer usages.
The current UUT Policy features outdated language, specifically regarding
telecommunications, which potentially exposes a portion of the City’s
annual UUT revenue to risk from litigation. In order to update the UUT
policy and protect the City’s resources, the ordinance must be amended via
a majority vote of taxpayers, in accordance with Proposition 218.

At its April 14, 2010 regular meeting, the City Council directed staff to
prepare a ballot measure and updated ordinance for voter consideration in
the November 2010 election. As directed, the proposed ordinance
replaces the current policy with modernized language that accommodates

1

Elk Grove City Council
May 26, 2010
Page 2 of 2

advances in technology since the original language was authored, as well
as reduces the tax rate from 2.5% to 2.25%. The ordinance must be
adopted by the Council prior to its placement on the ballot; however, it will
not take effect unless approved by a majority of the voters participating in
the election, as addressed in Section 6.

The proposed ordinance also features updates of an administrative nature
and sets March 1, 2011 as the termination date of the transition period from
the old to the new ordinance, if adopted by voters.

FISCAL IMPACT:

The City’s current UUT ordinance risks the loss of approximately $600,000
in General Fund revenue if successfully challenged in court. Modernizing
the ordinance will protect current revenue and broaden the tax base;
therefore, reducing the tax rate from 2.5% to 2.25% is expected to be
revenue neutral to the City.

ATTACHMENT:

1. Ordinance

2

ATTACHMENT 1

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ELK GROVE
AMENDING ELK GROVE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 3.40 RELATING TO

UTILITY USER TAX

WHEREAS, upon incorporation, the City of Elk Grove (City) adopted the County
of Sacramento’s utility user tax policy as part of the municipal code; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to protect the City’s revenue sources by
updating the utility user tax policy to better reflect technological advances; and

WHEREAS, a broader tax base allows for a reduced tax rate with no detrimental
fiscal impact to the City; and

WHEREAS, citizens of Elk Grove will have opportunity to vote on the change in
taxation proposed in the ordinance herein on November 2, 2010.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Elk Grove does hereby
ordain as follows:

Section 1: Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend Elk Grove Municipal
Code Chapter 3.40 relating to utility user tax.

Section 2: Amendment.

Chapter 3.40 is hereby amended in the Elk Grove Municipal Code to read in its entirety
as follows:

Chapter 3.40
UTILITY USER TAX

Sections:

3.40.010 Short title.

3.40.020 Definitions.

3.40.030 Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions.

3.40.040 Telecommunications users’ tax.

3.40.050 Video users’ tax.

3.40.060 Electricity users’ tax.

3.40.070 Gas users’ tax.

3.40.080 Collection of tax from service users receiving purchase of gas or
electricity.

3.40.090 Sewer tax.

3.40.100	Bundling taxable items with non-taxable items.

3.40.110	Substantial nexus/minimum contacts

3.40.120 Duty to collect - Procedures.

3.40.130 Collection penalties - Service suppliers.

3.40.140 Actions to collect.

3.40.150 Deficiency determination and assessment - Tax application errors.

3.40.160	Administrative remedy - Non-paying service users.

3.40.170 Additional powers and duties of the tax administrator.

3.40.180 Records.

3.40.190 Refunds.

3.40.200	Appeals.

3.40.210 No injunction/writ of mandate.

3.40.220 Notice of changes to chapter.

3

3.40.230 Effect of state and federal reference/authorization.

3.40.240 Independent audit of tax collection, exemption, remittance, and
expenditures.

3.40.250 Remedies cumulative.

3.40.260 Interaction with prior tax.

3.40.010. Short title.

This chapter shall be known as the “Utility Users’ Tax Ordinance.”

3.40.020. Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this chapter shall be construed as
defined in this section:

A.	“A” Definitions.

1.	“Ancillary telecommunications services” means services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services, including
but not limited to the following services.

2.	“Ancillary video services” means services that are associated with or incidental to
the provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to electronic program
guide services, search functions, recording services, interactive services or other
communications services that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or
enjoyment of video services, including any other service presently available or future
service that enhances, supports, or extends the use or enjoyment, of video services or
of any other ancillary video service.

B.	“B” Definitions.

1.	“Billing address” means the mailing address of the service user where the service
supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

C.	“C” Definitions.

1.	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that links two or more
participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision of a
telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include the
telecommunications services used to reach the conference bridge.

D.	“D” Definitions.

1.	“Detailed telecommunications billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing
statement.

2.	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone number
information, and/or address information.

E.	Reserved for future use.

F.	Reserved for future use.

G.	“G” Definitions.

1.	“Gas” means natural or manufactured gas or any alternate fuel which may be
substituted therefor currently or in the future.

4

H.	Reserved for future use.

I.	Reserved for future use.

J.	Reserved for future use.

K.	Reserved for future use.

L.	Reserved for future use.

M.	“M” Definitions.

1.	“Mobile telecommunications service” has the meaning and usage as set forth in the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. §124) and the regulations
thereunder, as may be amended from time to time.

2.	“Month” means a calendar month (or portion thereof).

N.	“N” Definitions.

1. “Non-utility service supplier” means:

a.	A service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all or a
significant portion of the City, which generates electricity for sale to others, and shall
include but is not limited to any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility,
cogenerator, distributed generation provider, exempt wholesale generator (15 U.S.C.
§79z-5a), municipal utility district, federal power marketing agency, electric rural
cooperative, or other supplier or seller of electricity;

b.	An electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator, pool,
operator, or other electricity supplier other than a supplier of electric distribution services
to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies electricity or
supplemental services to electricity users within the City; or

c.	A gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than a supplier of
gas distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies
gas or supplemental services to gas users within the City.

O.	Reserved for future use.

P.	“P” Definitions.

1.	“Paging service” means a “telecommunications service” that provides transmission of
coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers; whether such
transmissions include messages and/or sounds.

2.	“Place of primary use” means the street address representative of where the
customer’s use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which must be the
residential street address or the primary business street address of the customer.

3.	“Post-paid telecommunications service” means the telecommunications service
obtained by making a payment on a telecommunication-by-telecommunication basis
whether through the use of a credit card or any other payment mechanism such as a
bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service number
which is not associated with the origination or termination of the telecommunications
service.

5

4.	“Prepaid telecommunications service” means the right to access telecommunications
services, which must be paid for in advance and which enables the origination of
telecommunications services and that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which
the number declines with use.

5.	“Private telecommunications service” means a telecommunications service that
entitles the customer the exclusive or priority use of a telecommunications channel or
limited group of channels available only to a limited set of users between or among a
limited set termination points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or
channels are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and
any other associated services that are provided in connection with the use of such
channel or channels. A telecommunications channel is a physical or virtual path of
telecommunications over which signals are transmitted between or among customer
channel termination points (i.e., the location where the customer either inputs or
receives the telecommunications).

Q.	Reserved for future use.

R.	Reserved for future use.

S.	“S” Definitions.

1.	“Service address” means the residential street address or the business street
address of the service user. For a telecommunications or video service user, “service
address” means either:

a.	The location of the service user’s telecommunications or video equipment from
which the communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the
communication is billed or paid;

b.	If the location in EGMC Section 3.40.020(S)(1)(a) of this definition is unknown or
mobile (e.g., mobile telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address
means the location of the service user’s place of primary use; or

c.	For prepaid telecommunications service, “service address” means the location
associated with the service number.

2.	“Service supplier” means any person and/or the City that provides any service
subject to any tax hereunder, including, without limitation, telecommunications, video,
electric, gas, water and/or sewer service to a user of such service within the City.

3.	“Service user” means a person required to pay a tax imposed under the provisions of
this chapter.

4.	“Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement” means the multi-state agreement
commonly known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement,
and as it is amended from time to time.

T.	“T” Definitions.

1.	“Tax administrator” means the Finance Director of the City or designee.

2.	“Telecommunications services” means the transmission, conveyance, or routing of
voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or
among points whatever the technology used. The term “telecommunications services”
includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing

6

applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of
transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such services are
referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the
Federal Telecommunications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes
video and/or data services that are functionally integrated with “telecommunications
services.” “Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or
billed: ancillary telecommunications service; mobile telecommunications service;
prepaid telecommunications service; post-paid telecommunications service; private
telecommunications service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers
designated by the Federal Telecommunications Commission); 900 service (or any other
similar numbers designated by the Federal Telecommunications Commission for
services whereby subscribers who call in to pre-recorded or live service).

U.	Reserved for future use.

V.	“V” Definitions.

1.	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection with one (1)
or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling features that allow
customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections,
including conference bridging services.

2.	“Video programming” means those programming services commonly provided to
subscribers by a “video service supplier,” including but not limited to basic services,
premium services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on
demand, origination programming, or any other similar services, regardless of the
content of such video programming, or the technology used to deliver such services,
and regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed.

3.	“Video services” means “video programming” and any and all services related to the
providing, recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of “video programming” (including
origination programming and programming using internet protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-
Video) using one or more channels by a “video service supplier,” regardless of the
technology used to deliver, store or provide such services, and regardless of the
manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed, and includes ancillary
video services, data services, “telecommunications services,” or interactive
communication services that are functionally integrated with “video services.”

4.	“Video service supplier” means any person, company, or service which provides or
sells one or more channels of video programming, or provides or sells the capability to
receive one or more channels of video programming, including any telecommunications
that are ancillary, necessary or common to the provision, use or enjoyment of the video
programming, to or from a business or residential address in the City, where some fee
is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that service, whether
or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or
telecommunications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited to,
multichannel video programming distributors (as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. §522(13)); open
video systems (OVS) suppliers; suppliers of cable television; master antenna television;
satellite master antenna television; multichannel multipoint distribution, services
(MMDS); video services using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video, which
provide, among other things, broadcasting and video on demand); direct broadcast
satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its video services, now or in the
future; and other suppliers of video services (including two-way communications),
whatever their technology.

7

5.	“VoIP (voice over Internet protocol)” means the digital process of making and
receiving real-time voice transmissions over any Internet protocol network.

6.	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer to store,
send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any vertical
services that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize the voice mail
service.

W.	Reserved for future use.

X.	Reserved for future use.

Y.	Reserved for future use.

Z.	Reserved for future use.

AA. “Number” Definitions.

1.	“800 service” means a “telecommunications service” that allows a caller to dial a toll-
free number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically marketed
under the name; “800,” “855,” “866,” “877,” and “888” toll-free calling, and any
subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

2.	“900 service” means an inbound toll “telecommunications service” purchased by a
subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s
prerecorded announcement of live service. “900 service” does not include the charge for
collection services provided by the seller of the “telecommunications services” to the
subscriber, or service or product sold by the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer.
The service is typically marketed under the name “900” service and any subsequent
numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

3.40.030. Constitutional, statutory, and other exemptions

A.	Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person or
service when the imposition of such tax upon such person or service would be in
violation of a federal or state statute, the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the state.

B.	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this chapter pursuant to
subsection A of this section shall file an application with the tax administrator for an
exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service user that is
a state or federal agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized name for such
service. Said application shall be made upon a form approved by the tax administrator
and shall state those facts, declared under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant
for an exemption, and shall include the names of all utility service suppliers serving that
service user. If deemed exempt by the tax administrator, such service user shall give
the tax administrator timely written notice of any change in utility service suppliers so
that the tax administrator can properly notify the new utility service supplier of the
service user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this section
shall not be entitled to a refund of utility users’ taxes collected and remitted to the tax
administrator from such service user as a result of such noncompliance.

The decision of the tax administrator may be appealed pursuant to EGMC Section

3.40.200	of this chapter. Filing an application with the tax administrator and appeal to
the City Manager pursuant to EGMC Section 3.40.200 of this chapter is a prerequisite to
a suit thereon.

8

3.40.040. Telecommunications users’ tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
telecommunications services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two
and 25/100ths (2.25%) percent of the charges made for such services and shall be
collected from the service user by the telecommunications services supplier or its billing
agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that telecommunications services, which are
billed to a billing or service address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the
City’s boundaries, and such services are subject to taxation under this chapter. If the
billing address of the service user is different from the service address, the service
address of the service user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in
this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of other services, credits,
property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in
exchange for the telecommunications services.

B.	“Mobile telecommunications service” shall be sourced in accordance with the
sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. §124)
The tax administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunications service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this chapter, sourcing
rules for the taxation of other telecommunications services, including but not limited to
post-paid telecommunications services, and prepaid telecommunications services,
provided that, such rules are based upon custom and common practice that further
administrative efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation (e.g., Streamline
Sales and Use Tax Agreement).

C.	The tax administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunications service
suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this chapter, an
administrative ruling, identifying those telecommunications services, or charges
therefor, that are subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection A of this section.

D.	As used in this section, the term “telecommunications services” includes, but is
not limited to, charges for: connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change
of telecommunications services; late payment fees; detailed billing; central office and
custom, calling features (including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller
identification and three-way calling); voice mail and other messaging services; directory
assistance; access and line charges; universal service charges; regulatory,
administrative and other cost recovery charges; and local number portability charges.
“Telecommunications services” shall not include digital downloads that are not “ancillary
telecommunications services,” such as books, music, ringtones, games, and similar
digital products.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telecommunications services
subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the tax administrator
that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another state or local
jurisdiction on such telecommunications services, shall be allowed a credit against the
tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state
or local jurisdiction; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax
owed to the City under this section.

F.	The tax on telecommunications services imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in
one (1) month shall be remitted to the tax administrator, and must be received by the
tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

3.40.050 Video users’ tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using video

9

services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two and 25/100ths
(2.25%) percent of the charges made for such services and shall be collected from the
service user by the video service supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable
presumption that video services, which are billed to a billing or service address it the
City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City’s boundaries, and such services are
subject to taxation under this chapter. If the billing address of the service user is
different from the service address, the service address of the service user shall be used
for purposes of imposing the tax.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to,
charges for the following:

1.	Regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees and access fees (Public
Education and government [PEG] fees);

2.	Initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of
telecommunications services;

3.	Late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

4.	Activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

5.	Video programming and video services;

6.	Ancillary video programming services (e.g., electronic program guide
services, search functions, recording functions, or other interactive,
services or communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to
the use or enjoyment of the video services);

7.	Equipment leases (e.g., remote, recording and/or search devises;
converters); and

8.	Service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of
services, and special services.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the video services.

D.	The tax administrator may issue and disseminate to video service suppliers,
which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this chapter, an administrative
ruling identifying those video services or charges therefore, that are subject to or not
subject to the tax of EGMC Section 3.40.050(A) of this section.

E.	The tax imposed by this section shall, be collected from the service user by the
video service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services. In the case of
video service, the service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video
service (e.g., an owner), unless such service is resold to individual users, in which case
the service user shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video service. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the tax administrator, and must be
received by the tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month.

3.40.060 Electricity users’ tax

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax, upon every person using electricity in the City.
The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two and 25/100ths (2.25%)

10

percent of the charges made for such electricity, and for any supplemental services or
other associated activities directly related to and/or necessary for the provision of
electricity to the service user, which are provided by a service supplier or non-utility
service supplier to a service user. The tax shall be collected from the service user by
the service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services,
components and items, that are: 1) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment of electric service; or 2) currently are or historically have been included in a
single or bundled rate for electric service by a local distribution company to a class of
retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following
charges:

1.	Energy charges;

2.	Distribution or transmission	charges;

3.	Metering charges;

4.	Stand-by, reserves,	firming,	ramping, voltage, support, regulation,

emergency, or other similar charges for supplemental services to self-generation
service users;

5.	Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange charges,
independent system operator (ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive
transition charges (CTC), public purpose program charges, nuclear decommissioning
charges, trust transfer amounts (bond financing charges), franchise fees, franchise
surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and other charges, fees or surcharges which
are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric, service; and

6.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs which are
mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a
bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision of such
electricity.

D.	The tax administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric service suppliers
to identify the various unbundled billing components of electric retail service that they
commonly provide to residential, and commercial/industrial customers in the of the City,
and the charges therefore, including those items that are mandated by state or federal
regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such electric service. The tax
administrator thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such electric service suppliers
an administrative ruling identifying those components, and items which are:

1)	necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service; or

2)	currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for electric
service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such
components and items shall be subject to the tax of EGMC Section 3.40.060(A) of this
section.

E.	As used in this section, the term “using electricity” shall not include the mere
receiving of such electricity by an electrical corporation or governmental agency at a

11

point within the City for resale.

F.	The tax on electricity provided by self-production or by a non-utility service
supplier not under the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be collected and remitted in the
manner set forth in EGMC Section 3.40.080. All, other taxes on charges for electricity
imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the electric service
supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be
remitted to the tax administrator and must be received by the tax administrator on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of the person
required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of
tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the
service user which must be received by the tax administrator on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of the following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted
payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each
calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the tax administrator, may be applied
against any subsequent remittance that becomes due.

3.40.070 Gas users’ tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the City, which is
transported and delivered through a pipeline or by mobile transport. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of two and 25/100ths (2.25%) percent of the charges
made for such gas, including all services related to the storage, transportation and
delivery of such gas. The tax shall be collected from the service user by the service
supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent, and shall apply to all uses of
gas, including but not limited to, heating, electricity generation, and the use of gas as a
component of a manufactured product.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services,
components and items for gas service that are: 1) necessary for or common to the
receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or 2) currently are or historically have been
included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the
following charges:

1.	The commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned by
the service user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting,
storage, gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with the
production and delivery of such gas), which is delivered through a gas pipeline
distribution system;

2.	Gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not
included in commodity charges);

3.	Storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier shall not be
required to apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the service
supplier cannot, as a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where such stored gas
is ultimately used; but it shall be the obligation of the service user to self-collect the
amount of tax not applied to any charge for gas storage by the service supplier and to
remit the tax to the appropriate jurisdiction;

4.	Capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, transition charges, customer charges, minimum charges,
annual and monthly charges, and any other charges which are necessary for or
common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; and

12

5.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs which are
mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a
bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the gas or services related to the delivery of such gas.

D.	The tax administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas service suppliers to
identify the various unbundled billing components of gas retail service that they
commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and
the charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by state or federal
regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such gas service. The tax administrator,
thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such gas service suppliers an administrative
ruling identifying those components and items which are: 1) necessary for or common to
the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or 2) currently are or historically have been
included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject to
the tax of EGMC Section 3.40.070(A) of this section.

E.	There shall be excluded from the calculation of the tax imposed in this section,
charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution
system.

F.	The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier not
under the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be collected and remitted in the manner set
forth in EGMC Section 3.40.080. All other taxes on charges for gas imposed by this
section shall be collected from the service user by the gas service supplier or its billing
agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the tax
administrator, and must be received by the tax administrator on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of the person required to collect
and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by
the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user,
which must be received by the tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of
the following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted payment or
request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter.
The credit, if approved by the tax administrator, may be applied against any subsequent
remittance that becomes due.

3.40.080 Collection of tax from service users receiving purchase of gas or
electricity.

A.	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by EGMC Section 3.40.060 or by
EGMC Section 3.40.070, which produces gas or electricity for self-use; which receives
gas or electricity, including any related supplemental services, directly from a non-utility
service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this chapter; or which, for any other reason,
is not having the full tax collected and remitted by its service supplier, a non-utility
service supplier; or its billing agent on the use of gas or electricity in the City, including
any related supplemental services, shall report said fact to the tax administrator and
shall remit the tax due directly to the tax administrator within thirty (30) days of such
use, based on the charges for, or value of, such gas or electricity, or supplemental
services, as provided in EGMC Sections 3.40.060(B) and 3.40.070(B). In lieu of paying
said actual tax, the service user may, at its option, remit to the tax administrator within
thirty (30) days of such use an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in

13

the previous month, or upon the payment pattern of similar customers of the service
supplier using similar amounts of gas or electricity, provided that the service user shall
submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days
following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the tax administrator in
writing, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

B.	The tax administrator may require said service user to identify its non-utility
service supplier, and otherwise provide, subject to audit: invoices; books of account; or
other satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used, including
any related supplemental services, and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is
unable to provide such satisfactory evidence, or if the administrative cost of calculating
the tax in the opinion of the tax administrator is excessive, the tax administrator may
determine the tax by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user
would have incurred if the gas or electricity used, including any related supplemental
services, had been provided by the service supplier that is the primary supplier of gas or
electricity within the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from the
City.

3.40.090 Sewer tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using sewer
services within the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two and
25/100ths (2.25%) percent of the charges made for such sewer service. The tax shall be
paid by the person using such sewer service.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services,
components and items that are: 1) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment of sewer service; or 2) currently are or historically have been included in a
single or bundled rate for sewer service to retail customers. The term “charges” shall
include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

1.	Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, annual and monthly charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges which
are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of sewer service; and

2.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for sewer services or programs, which are
mandated by the City, a state, or federal agency, whether or not such charges, fees, or
surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	The tax on sewer service imposed by this section shall be collected from the
service user by the sewer service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the tax administrator, and must be
received by the tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month.

3.40.100 Bundling taxable items with non-taxable items.

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable
service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined
charge is subject to tax unless the service, supplier identifies, by reasonable and
verifiable standards, the portions of the combined charge that are non-taxable and
taxable through the service supplier’s books and records kept in the regular course of
business, and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not
created and maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of
proving the proper apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges. If the service
supplier offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges are

14

separately stated, then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-
taxable services shall based on its books and records kept in the regular course of
business and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not
created and maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of
proving the proper valuation of the taxable and non-taxable services.

3.40.110 Substantial nexus / minimum contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under
this chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in
favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest
extent permitted by state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by
judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any telecommunications service
(including VoIP) used by a person with a service address in the City, which service is
capable of terminating a call to another person on the general telephone network, shall
be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/ minimum contacts”
exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax,
under this chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the
City for tax collection and remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited
to, any of the following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent,
affiliate, or subsidiary, a place of business of any nature; solicits business in the City by
employees, independent contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits
business in the City on a continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of
advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the City or distributed
from a location within the City; advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and
published within the City or through materials distributed in the City by means other than
the United States mail; or if there are activities performed in the City on behalf of the
service supplier that are significantly associated with the service supplier’s ability to
establish and maintain a market in the City for the provision of services that are subject
to a tax under this chapter.

3.40.120 Duty to collect - Procedures.

A.	Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit
the taxes imposed by the provisions of this chapter shall be performed as follows:

1.	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at the
same time as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance with the
regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by a service user
to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge and tax which was
accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall
be deemed to have been paid. In those cases where a service user has notified the
service supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed on said charges, EGMC Section

3.40.160	shall apply.

2.	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the service,
where all charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions
of this chapter. Where a service user receives more than one (1) billing, one (1) or more
being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise, separately for
each billing period.

B.	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this chapter to remit a tax
shall file a return to the tax administrator, on forms approved by the tax administrator,
on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included with the
return and filed with the tax administrator. The tax administrator is authorized to require
such additional information as he or she deems necessary to determine if the tax is

15

being levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with this chapter. Returns are due
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Section 7284.6 of
the Revenue and Tax Code, the tax administrator and his or her agents shall maintain
such filing returns as confidential information that is exempt from the disclosure
provisions of the Public Records Act.

3.40.130 Collection penalties - Service Suppliers.

A.	Taxes collected by service supplier from a service user are delinquent if not
received by the tax administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur
on a weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by the tax administrator on
the first regular working day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit,
including electronic fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically
exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by a service supplier in
satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection shall be considered timely if the
transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer settles into the City’s
account on the following business day.

B.	If the person required to collect and/or remit the utility users’ tax fails to collect
the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or charges on the
customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before the due date, the tax
administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of
fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and
shall pay interest at the rate of zero and 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any
fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which
the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

C.	The tax administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon
persons required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for
fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of
the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the
tax administrator.

D.	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is
accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein
required to be paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax administrator may, in his or her discretion,
modify the due dates of this chapter to be consistent with any uniform standards or
procedures that are mutually agreed upon by other public agencies imposing a utility
users’ tax, or otherwise legally established, to create a central payment location or
mechanism.

3.40.140 Actions to collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this chapter shall
be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a
service user which has not been remitted to the tax administrator shall be deemed a
debt owed to the City by the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be
a debt of the service user. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of
this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery
of such amount, including penalties and interest as provided for in this chapter, along
with any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the person’s noncompliance
with this chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys’ fees. Any tax
required to be collected by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an unsecured
priority excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. §507(a)(8)(C).

16

3.40.150 Deficiency determination and assessment - Tax application errors.

A.	The tax administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she
determines that any service supplier or service user required to pay, collect, and/or
remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this chapter has failed to pay, collect, and/or
remit the proper amount of tax by improperly applying or failing to apply the tax to one
(1) or more taxable services or charges. Nothing herein shall require that the tax
administrator institute proceedings under EGMC Section 3.40.150 if, in the opinion of
the tax administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax
benefit.

B.	The tax administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the
person or entity allegedly owing the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the amount of
the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of zero and 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per
month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax
should have been received by the City. Within fourteen (14) days after the date of
service of such notice, the person or entity allegedly owing the tax may request in
writing to the tax administrator for a hearing on the matter.

C.	If the person or entity allegedly owing the tax fails to request a hearing within the
prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final
assessment and shall immediately be due and owing to the City. If the person requests
a hearing, the tax administrator shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall
be scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt of the written request for hearing.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the tax administrator to
such person or entity at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, and, if the tax
administrator desires said person or entity to produce specific records at such hearing,
such notice may designate the records requested to be produced.

D.	At the time fixed for the hearing, the tax administrator shall hear all relevant
testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the discretion
of the tax administrator, the hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose
of allowing the presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following
the conclusion of the hearing, the tax administrator shall issue a final assessment, (or
non-assessment), thereafter, by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency
determination, and shall mail a copy of such final assessment to the person or entity
owing the tax. The decision of the tax administrator may be appealed pursuant to
EGMC Section 3.40.200. Filing an application with the tax administrator and appeal to
the City Manager pursuant to EGMC Section 3.40.200 is a prerequisite to a suit
thereon.

E.	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the
tax administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of receipt of the
notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen (15%) percent
on the total amount of the assessment, along with interest at the rate of zero and
75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of
limitations regarding a claim by the City seeking payment of a tax assessed under this
chapter shall commence from the date of delinquency as provided in this EGMC Section
3.40.150(E).

F.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and
shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as
established by a proof of mailing.

3.40.160	Administrative remedy - Non-paying service users.

17

A.	Whenever the tax administrator determines that a service user has deliberately
withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a
person required to collect the tax, or whenever the tax administrator deems it in the best
interest of the City, he or she may relieve such person of the obligation to collect the
taxes due under this chapter from certain, named service users for specific billing
periods. To the extent the service user has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a
period of two (2) or more billing periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the
obligation to collect taxes due. the service supplier shall provide the City with the
names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the
provisions of this chapter. Nothing herein shall require that the tax administrator institute
proceedings under this section if, in the opinion of the tax administrator, the cost of
collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

B.	In addition to the tax owed, the service, user shall pay a delinquency penalty at
the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay interest at
the rate of zero and 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.

C.	The tax administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the tax
administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated
periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice
shall be served on the service user by personal, delivery or by deposit of the notice in
the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the service user at the address to
which billing was made by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service
user have a change of address, to his or her last known address.

D.	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the tax administrator within thirty (30)
days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the tax administrator
may impose an additional penalty of fifteen (15%) percent of the amount of the total tax
that is owed.

3.40.170 Additional powers and duties of the tax administrator.

A.	The tax administrator shall have the power and duty to enforce each and all of
the provisions of this chapter.

B.	The tax administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent
with provisions of this chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and
enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of
such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the tax administrator’s office.
To the extent that the tax administrator determines that the tax imposed under this
chapter shall not be collected in full for any period of time from any particular service
supplier or service user, that determination shall be considered an exercise of the tax
administrator’s discretion to settle disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing
methodology for purposes of Section 53750 of the Government Code or otherwise. The
tax administrator is not authorized to amend the City’s methodology for purposes of
Section 53750 of the Government Code, and the City does not waive or abrogate its
ability to impose the utility users’ tax in full as a result of promulgating administrative
rulings or entering into agreements.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the tax administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict
requirements of this chapter and thereby: 1) conform to the billing procedures of a
particular service supplier so long as said agreements result in the collection of the tax
in conformance with the general purpose and scope of this chapter; or 2) to avoid a
hardship where the administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh
the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the tax administrator’s

18

office, and are voidable by the tax administrator or the City at any time.

D.	The tax administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with
the requirements of this chapter, of any person required to collect and/or remit a tax
pursuant to this chapter. The tax administrator shall notify said person of the initiation of
an audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit
period of review shall not exceed a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of
receipt of the written notice by said person from the tax administrator. Upon completion
of the audit, the tax administrator may make a deficiency determination pursuant to
EGMC Section 3.40.150 of this chapter for all taxes (and applicable penalties and
interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person to
the tax administrator. If said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to
enable the tax administrator to verify compliance with this chapter, the tax administrator
is authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate
shall be entitled to a rebuttable, presumption of correctness.

E.	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the tax
administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to this
chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the time for filing
the required statement has not already passed when the request is received. No penalty
for delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue
during said extension at the rate of zero and 75/100ths (0.75%) percent per month,
prorated for any portion thereof.

F.	The tax administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a
right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this chapter.

G.	Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the contrary, the tax
administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required to
collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by this chapter if the non-
collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether the non-collection was in good
faith, the tax administrator shall take into consideration industry practice or other
precedence.

3.40.180 Records.

A.	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any
tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve for a period of at least three (3) years,
all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he or she may
have been liable for the collection of and remittance to the tax administrator, which
records the tax administrator shall have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

B.	The City, through the City Council, may issue an administrative subpoena to
compel a person to deliver to the tax administrator, copies of all records deemed
necessary by the tax administrator to establish compliance with this chapter, including
the delivery of records in a common electronic format on readily available media if such
records are kept electronically by the person in the usual and ordinary course of
business. As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to the tax
administrator on or before the due date provided in the administrative subpoena, such
person may provide access to such records outside the City on or before the due date,
provided that such person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable travel expenses
incurred by the City to inspect those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other
similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those persons
designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

C.	The tax administrator is authorized to execute a nondisclosure agreement

19

approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer information
pursuant to Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7 of the California Revenue and Tax Code.

D.	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or
remit the tax, the service supplier shall: 1) provide to the tax administrator the name,
address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently
authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and
2) upon request of the tax administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of any information
or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the
opinion of the tax administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application,
calculation, collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

E.	If any person subject to recordkeeping under this section unreasonably denies
the tax administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the information
requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified, then the tax
administrator may impose a penalty of Five Hundred and no/100'hs ($500.00) Dollars on
such person for each day following: 1) the initial date that the person refuses to provide
such access; or 2) the due date for production of records as set forth in the
administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed
under this chapter.

3.40.190 Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has
been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax administrator under this
chapter from a service user or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this
section:

A.	The tax administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax
administrator under this chapter from a service user or service supplier, provided that no
refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her
guardian, conservator, executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to the
tax administrator within one year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of
said tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant’s right to the refund by written
records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on
behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each member of the class has submitted
a written claim under penalty of perjury as provided by this subsection.

B.	The tax administrator, where the claim is less than the settlement authority
established in or in accordance with any applicable section of the Code, or the City
Council where the claim is in excess of that amount, shall act upon the refund claim
within forty-five (45) days of the initial receipt of the refund claim. Said decision shall be
final. If the tax administrator/City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within
the forty-five (45) day period, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the
tax administrator/City Council on the forty-fifth (45th) day. The tax administrator shall
give notice of the action in a form which substantially complies with that set forth in
Section 913 of the Government Code.

C.	The filing of a written claim pursuant to Section 935 of the Government Code is a
prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to this
section shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 945.6 and 946 of the Government
Code.

D.	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of EGMC Section 3.40.190(A) of this
section, the tax administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to a

20

service supplier, who has collected and remitted any amount of tax in excess of the
amount of tax imposed by this chapter, to claim credit for such overpayment against the
amount of tax which is due the City upon subsequent monthly return(s) to the tax
administrator, provided that: 1) such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one
(1) year from the date of overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax; 2) the tax
administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis and amount of such credit has been
reasonably established; and 3) in the case of an overpayment by a service user to the
service supplier that has been remitted to the City, the tax administrator has received
proof, to his or her satisfaction, that the overpayment has been refunded by the service
supplier to the service user in an amount equal to the requested credit.

E.	Notwithstanding EGMC Sections 3.40.190(A) though (D), a service supplier shall
be entitled to take any overpayment as a credit against an underpayment whenever
such overpayment has been received by the City within the three (3) years next
preceding a deficiency determination or assessment by the tax administrator in
connection with an audit instituted by the tax administrator pursuant to EGMC Section
3.40.170(D). A service supplier shall not be entitled to said credit unless it first clearly
establishes, to the satisfaction of the tax administrator, the right to the credit by written
records showing entitlement thereto. Under no circumstances shall an overpayment
taken as a credit against an underpayment pursuant to this subsection qualify a service
supplier for a refund to which it would not otherwise be entitled under the one (1) year
written claim requirement of this section.

3.40.200	Appeals.

A.	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating
to a refund pursuant to EGMC Section 3.40.190), deficiency determination, assessment,
or administrative ruling of the tax administrator. Any person aggrieved by any decision
(other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to EGMC Section 3.40.190 of this
chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the tax
administrator, shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of this section.
Compliance with this section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. (See Section
935(b) of the Government Code.) Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or
action on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

B.	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a
refund pursuant to EGMC Section 3.40.190 of this chapter), deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling, of the tax administrator; he or she may appeal to
the City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen (14)
days of the date of the decision, deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative
ruling of the tax administrator which aggrieved the service user or service supplier.

C.	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before an independent hearing officer
selected by the City Manager, no more than thirty (30) days from the receipt of the
appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time and place of the hearing,
as well as any relevant materials; at least five (5) days prior to the hearing. The hearing
may be continued from time to time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing the
appealing party, the tax administrator, and any other interested person, may present
such relevant evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination from which
the appeal is taken.

D.	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s files,
the hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or
reversing the determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given
within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons
for the decision. The notice shall specify that the decision is final and that any petition

21

for judicial review shall be filed within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in
accordance with Section 1094.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure.

E.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and
shall be deemed received on the third (3rd) day following the date of mailing, as
established by a proof of mailing.

3.40.210 No injunction/writ of mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer of the City
to prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected and/or remitted.

3.40.220 Notice of changes to chapter.

If a tax under this chapter is added, repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is
changed, the tax administrator shall follow the notice requirements of Section 799 of the
California Public Utilities Code.

3.40.230 Effect of state and federal reference/authorization

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that
such reference to a statute herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto,
or to any subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or
court of law with the duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or
change of interpretation would require voter approval under California law, or to the
extent that such change would, result in a tax decrease (as a result of excluding all or a
part of a utility service, or charge therefor, from taxation). Only to the extent voter
approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would result, the prior version
of the statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any application or situation
that would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the
amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum possible
extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under
this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no
amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those
changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the
authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this chapter.

3.40.240 Independent audit of tax collection, exemption, remittance, and
expenditures.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this chapter have been properly
applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this chapter, and properly
expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual verification shall be
performed by a qualified independent third party and the review shall employ
reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance, including the use of sampling
audits. The verification shall not be required of tax remitters where the cost of the
verification may exceed the tax revenues to be reviewed.

3.40.250 Remedies cumulative

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this chapter or which are available under any
other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims
Act (Section 12650 of the Government Code, et seq.) and the California Unfair
Practices Act (Section 17070 of Business and Professions Code, et seq.), are
cumulative. The use of one (1) or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any

22

other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.

3.40.260 Interaction with prior tax.

A.	Collection of Tax by Service Providers. Service providers shall begin to collect
the tax imposed by this amended chapter as soon as feasible after the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter, but in no event later than permitted by Section
799 of the California Public Utilities Code.

B.	Satisfaction of Tax Obligation by Service Users. Prior to March 1, 2011, any
person who pays the tax levied pursuant to this chapter, as it existed prior to its
amendment as provided herein, with respect to any charge for a service shall be
deemed to have satisfied his or her obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant to this
chapter as amended herein, with respect to that charge. The intent of this paragraph is
to prevent the imposition of multiple taxes upon a single utility charge during the
transition period from the prior Utility Users’ Tax ordinance to the amended Utility Users’
Tax ordinance (which transition period ends March 1, 2011) and to permit service
providers or other persons with an obligation to remit the tax hereunder, during that
transition period, to satisfy their collection obligations by collecting either tax.

C.	In the event that a final court order should determine that the election enacting
this chapter (as amended herein) is invalid for whatever reason, or that any tax imposed
under this chapter (as amended herein) is invalid in whole or in part, then the taxes
imposed under this chapter, as it existed prior to its amendment as provided herein,
shall automatically continue to apply with respect to any service for which the tax levied
pursuant to this chapter has been determined to be invalid. Such automatic continuation
shall be effective beginning as of the first date of service (or billing date) for which the
tax imposed by this chapter is not valid. However, in the event of an invalidation, any
tax, (other than a tax that is ordered refunded by the court or is otherwise refunded by
the City) paid by a person with respect to a service and calculated pursuant to this
chapter (as amended herein) shall be deemed to satisfy the tax imposed under this
chapter, as it existed prior to its amendment as provided herein, on that service, so long
as the tax is paid with respect to a service provided no later than six (6) months
subsequent to the date on which the final court order is published.

Section 3: No Mandatory Duty of Care.

This ordinance is not intended to and shall not be construed or given effect in a manner
that imposes upon the City or any officer or employee thereof a mandatory duty of care
towards persons and property within or without the City, so as to provide a basis of civil
liability for damages, except as otherwise imposed by law.

Section 4: Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of this ordinance are severable. This City
Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this ordinance irrespective of the
invalidity of any particular portion thereof and intends that the invalid portions should be
severed and the balance of the ordinance be enforced.

Section 5: Savings Clause.

23

The provisions of this ordinance shall not affect or impair an act done or right vested or

approved or any proceeding, suit or prosecution had or commenced in any cause
before such repeal shall take affect; but every such act done, or right vested or accrued,
or proceeding, suit or prosecution shall remain in full force and affect to all intents and
purposes as if such ordinance or part thereof so repealed had remained in force. No
offense committed and no liability, penalty or forfeiture, either civilly or criminally
incurred prior to the time when any such ordinance or part thereof shall be repealed or
altered by said Code shall be discharged or affected by such repeal or alteration; but
prosecutions and suits for such offenses, liabilities, penalties or forfeitures shall be
instituted and proceeded with in all respects as if such prior ordinance or part thereof
had not been repealed or altered.

Section 6: Amendments.

This ordinance may be amended from time to time by the City Council, provided the
amendments are of an administrative nature only and do not affect the methodology or
amount of the tax established by this ordinance.

Section 7: Majority Approval; Effective Date.

This ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of voters voting on this
ordinance and shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City
Council.

INTRODUCED:	May 26, 2010

ADOPTED:

EFFECTIVE:

SOPHIA SCHERMAN, MAYOR of the
CITY OF ELK GROVE

ATTEST:	APPROVED AS TO	FORM:

JASON LINDGREN, INTERIM CITY CLERK SUSAN COCHRAN, CITY ATTORNEY
Date signed:___________________

24