Burlingame School District

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Measure B

“To maintain quality education, restore and protect critical school programs, including math and science, reading and writing, books and classroom
materials, school library services, art and music, and to retain qualified teachers shall Burlingame Elementary School District renew its expiring education
parcel tax, without increase, of $180 per parcel for ten years with no funds for administrators’ salaries, all funds going to local elementary and middle
schools, and an exemption for senior citizens?”

Full Text

LOCAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT ACHIEVEMENT
MEASURE “B ”

Burlingame Elementary School District

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To maintain math, science, reading and writing programs, support art and
music programs, support school library services, protect small class sizes
in kindergarten through third grades, restore funding for classroom supplies
and instructional materials, attract and retain qualified teachers, the
Burlingame Elementary School District proposes to establish an education
parcel tax for a period of ten years, beginning July 1, 2011, at the rate of
$180 per year, on each assessor’s parcel located within the Burlingame
Elementary School District, with an exemption available for senior citizens
and recipients of SSI for a disability, and to implement accountability
measures in connection with the temporary levy to ensure the funds are
used to:

•	maintain math, science, reading and writing programs;

•	support art and music programs;

•	support school library services;

•	protect small class sizes in kindergarten through third grades;

•	restore funding for classroom supplies and instructional
materials; and

•	attract and retain qualified teachers.

AMOUNT OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT
The education parcel tax shall be $180 (or less as provided below) per year
for ten (10) full years assessed against each parcel.

The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate
account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of this special tax, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of
land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Burlingame
Elementary School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the San Mateo County Assessor/Tax Collector. All
property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad
valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the education
parcel tax in such year.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS
Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners of
a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes
and who are either (a) 65 years of age or older or (b) persons receiving
Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, may
obtain an exemption from the education parcel tax by annually submitting
an application, by June 15 of each year, to the Board of Trustees of the
Burlingame Elementary School District.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the
San Mateo County Assessor/Tax Collector, or other appropriate County
tax officials shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief

4_________________________________________________________________

for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect
to matters specific to the levy of the education parcel tax, including the
Senior Citizen Exemption and the SSI Exemption and the classification of
property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District
shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT
SUPPORT

The collection of the education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or
offset any increase in local, state or federal government revenue sources
that would otherwise be available to the Burlingame Elementary School
District during the period of the education parcel tax. In the event that the
levy and collection does have such an effect, the Burlingame Elementary
School District shall cease the levy or shall reduce the education parcel tax
to the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or
offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code
Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures,
among others, shall apply to the education parcel tax levied in accordance
with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the education parcel tax
shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the education
parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above;
(c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds
of the education parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written
report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i)
the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the
education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required
or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the education parcel tax,
as identified above.

In addition to the accountability measures required by law, the District’s
Budget Advisory Committee shall advise the Board on the expenditures
funded by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the
purposes approved by the voters.

Burlingame School District

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Impartial Analysis of Measure B	Argument in Favor of Measure	B

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school
district, upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a
qualified special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Burlingame School
District proposes to levy a special tax for a period of ten years beginning
July 1, 2011 and ending June 30, 2021. This tax shall be at a rate of $180
per year per parcel on all taxable parcels in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of real property in the
District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes
from the San Mateo County tax collection officials. Any property owner
(i) aged 65 years or older or (ii) receiving Supplemental Security Income
for a disability may qualify for an exemption from the special tax if that
property owner occupies the parcel. All property which would otherwise
be exempt from ad valorem property taxes will also be exempt from the
imposition of the tax.

The levy and collection of the special tax is not intended to
decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal government funding
sources that would otherwise be available to the District at any time during
which the tax may be levied. In the event that the levy and collection of
the tax does have such an effect, the District shall reduce the tax levy to the
extent of any such decrease or offset.

The stated purposes of the special tax are to: attract and retain
teachers; maintain math, science, reading and writing programs, support
school libraries, art programs, music programs, and small class sizes in
kindergarten through third grade, and purchase classroom supplies and
instructional materials.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special
account. An independent citizens’ oversight committee will be established
to monitor the expenditures of the parcel tax revenues. An annual report is
required that accounts for the parcel tax revenues collected and the manner
in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be
levied on property within the boundaries of the Burlingame
School District for a period of ten years beginning July 1, 2011
and ending June 30, 2021 in an amount of $180 per year per
taxable parcel. The special tax would be used to: attract and retain
teachers; maintain math, science, reading and writing programs,
support school libraries, art programs, music programs, and
small class sizes in kindergarten through third grade, and
purchase classroom supplies and instructional materials.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be
levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.”

Vote Yes on Measure B to renew existing local funding for our excellent
Burlingame elementary and middle schools without increasing taxes.

Burlingame School District provides an exceptional education for the local
students in our neighborhoods. Over half of the district’s schools have
been recognized as “Distinguished Schools” by the state. Due to top-notch
teachers and strong academic programs, local students continue to excel
year after year achieving top scores on statewide exams.

That is why voting Yes on Measure B is so important — it will continue
our local tradition of academic excellence and student success by renewing
local education funding that is due to expire next school year.

Every penny of these funds goes directly to our neighborhood schools and
cannot be taken away by the state.

Voting Yes on Measure B will:

•	Maintain math and science programs

•	Support art and music programs in our schools

•	Protect school library services

•	Maintain small class sizes in first through third grades

•	Protect funding for books, classroom supplies and instructional
materials

•	Attract and retain qualified teachers

Measure B is fiscally sound:

•	It will not increase taxes by a single penny

•	All funds go directly to Burlingame schools and cannot be taken
away by the state

•	No funds can be used for administrators’ salaries

•	A senior citizen exemption is available

•	Measure B expires in 10 years and cannot be renewed without
voter approval

•	Citizen oversight and annual audits ensure funds will be used
wisely

As the state continues to be an unreliable partner in education funding, our
Burlingame schools need Measure B more than ever to protect the keys to
student success — strong academic programs, small class sizes and great
teachers.

Please join hundreds of parents, teachers and Burlingame neighbors and
vote YES on Measure B to continue academic excellence in our community.

/s/

Annette J. De Maria  Burlingame Teacher	December 9, 2009
Tim Auran  Director, Burlingame Chamber of Commerce	December 8, 2009
Carol Yasuda-Terrones  PTA Council President	December 8, 2009
John S. Root  30 year Burlingame Resident	December 8, 2009
Rona Blevins  Local Business Owner	December 11, 2009

5

Burlingame School District

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure B	Argument	Against	Measure	B

Voting ‘Yes’will raise vour taxes (again):

California already raised sales and income taxes last year, with public
schools the primary beneficiary.

Burlingame property taxes increased by more than 3% each year, for
more than a decade.* The last 5 increases were: 3.0% 9.2% 7.1%
8.6% and 6.8%

If you don’t want to be “double charged” (or triple charged!), now
would be an appropriate time to end the parcel tax, which is collected
in addition to all the other taxes.

The laughable claim that Measure B “will not increase taxes by a
single penny” is an insult to your intelligence.

Measure B would add $1,800 to your property tax bills over the next
10 years.

Look out. Senior Citizens!

In the fine print, the Board stipulated that you must “obtain an
exemption from the education parcel tax by annually submitting an
application, by June 15 of each year, to the Board of Trustees of the
Burlingame Elementary School District.” [emphasis added]

Are they hoping you’ll forget? Or tire of the annual paperwork?

Measure B is fiscally irresponsible:

All these tax hikes coming down the pike, on top of the tax hikes
enacted last year, on top of the high taxes we were already paying, are
KILLING the goose that laid the golden eggs.

The “higher taxes solve everything” mantra is not “fiscally sound”.
It’s fiscal recklessness. It’s driving money and jobs out of the state,
destroying California’s economy.

* http ://www. smcare. org/assessor/homeownerresources/
documents/2009LocalRoll.pdf

Is/

John J. Jack Hickey	December	21,	2009

Harland Harrison	December	21,	2009

Chair Libertarian Party, San Mateo County, Ca

Government’s appetite for higher taxes and still higher spending never
ends.

Consider all the taxes we pay, most of them at record highs:

•	Property Taxes (plus special assessments)

•	School Bond Taxes (districts, county)

•	Sales Taxes (county and state)

•	Income Taxes (state and federal)

•	Vehicle License fees & taxes

•	Gas taxes (state and federal)

•	Telecommunications taxes

•	additional excise taxes on alcohol, tobacco, gasoline, tires, etc.

If high taxes encouraged balanced budgets and responsible spending,
California would be the best-run state in the nation! But the opposite is
true—

Record revenue engendered bloated payrolls and unsustainable benefits
schemes; outstripping our ability to pay for them. No amount of revenue
can prevent politicians from spending more money than they take in.

The state government’s school districts are out-of-control: consuming
almost half of the state budget, and borrowing recklessly, to spend even
more. And, on top of all that, they have the gall to ask for more parcel
taxes too?

We couldn’t stop Sacramento from raising sales and income taxes last year,
—but we can finally put an end to one long-standing “temporary” parcel
tax. Now is our opportunity.

Please vote ‘NO This superfluous surtax is just plain greedy.

Isl

Harland Harrison	December	7,	2009

Chair Libertarian Party of San Mateo County, Ca

John J. Jack Hickey	December	7,	2009

6

Burlingame School District

Arguments in support or in opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure B

The authors of the argument against Measure B don’t live in our Burlingame
community. If they did, they’d understand—like we do—that our schools
are the pride of our community, with high student test scores, excellent
teachers and great academic programs.

Most importantly, Measure B will protect our excellent schools without
raising taxes by a single penny. It will renew existing, voter-approved
local funding for our elementary and middle schools that is due to expire
in the next school year.

We all know that state funding for education is unreliable. That’s why
it’s essential that we vote Yes on Measure B to renew local funds that go
directly to Burlingame schools and cannot be taken away by the state.

Vote Yes on Measure B to protect the keys to great education:

•	Reading, writing, math and science programs

•	A well-rounded academic curriculum, including art and music
programs

•	School library services

•	Small class sizes in first through third grades

•	Funding for books, classroom supplies and instructional materials

•	Qualified teachers

Measure B is fiscally responsible, including citizen oversight and an
exemption for senior citizens who are living on fixed incomes. No funds
can be used for administrators’ salaries. Measure B cannot be renewed
without voter approval.

We know that Burlingame is a desirable place to live because our excellent
schools attract new families to our neighborhoods year after year.

Please join Burlingame parents, teachers and community leaders in voting
YES on Measure B to protect great education for local students.

Is/

Cathy Baylock  Mayor, City of Burlingame	December 18, 2009
Ross Bruce  Burlingame Real Estate Agent	December 18, 2009
Margie DeWolfe  Burlingame School Teacher	December 18, 2009
Ernest Ribera, M.D.  Burlingame parent	December 18, 2009
Joseph La Mariana December 18, 2009 Commissioner, Burlingame Park & Recreation Department	