PROPO

To maintain and improve academic programs including math, science, music, arts, reading and
writing; retain highly qualified teachers; provide clean and safe schools; and minimize future
class-size increases; shall South Bay Union School District raise $1.7 million per year for four
years through a parcel tax at a rate described in the voter pamphlet, provided there Is
independent citizens' oversight and all funds are spent on neighborhood schools and cannot be
taken by the State and used elsewhere?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds
of the voters voting on the proposition.

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments and rebuttals.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This proposition, if approved by two-thirds of qualified electors voting on the proposition, will
authorize the South Bay Union School District ("District") to levy a special tax on each parcel of
land within the District. The special tax will be levied in an equal amount to produce total special
tax receipts in an amount not to exceed $1.7 million per fiscal year for four years, beginning July
1, 2011. The actual special tax will be determined annually by an independent financial
consultant but cannot exceed $96 per parcel per year.

For purposes of this proposition, a parcel Is defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the San Diego County Treasurer-Tax Collector. However,
parcels designated as multi-family residential that contain 2 to 4 units shall constitute 2 parcels
and those parcels containing 5 or more residential units shall constitute 5 parcels.

If approved by two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on the proposition, the special tax
described above will be collected by the San Diego County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same
time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected. Any property that
would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the qualified special tax.

The proceeds of the special tax can only be used for specified purposes identified in the Full
Text of the Ballot Measure and such proceeds will be placed into a special account. An
independent community oversight committee will be established to advise on the expenditures of
funds and report out on how the revenue has been spent. State law requires the District to
submit an annual report detailing the special tax revenues collected and the manner in which they
have been spent. The District has made this ballot proposition subject to these requirements.

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the South Bay Union School District to levy a
special tax on parcels of land within the District.

A "NO" vote is a vote against authorizing the South Bay Union School District to levy a
special tax on parcels of land within the District.

N SD 571-068

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION O

Proposition O will provide South Bay Union School District a source of guaranteed locally
controlled funding for academic programs such as math, science, reading and writing and will
help the District retain quality teachers. By law, Proposition O funds can only be used to improve
our neighborhood schools and cannot be taken by the State and spent elsewhere.

By providing a reliable source of locally controlled funding, Proposition O will allow our
schools to continue to focus on academic excellence in our classrooms, and to prepare our
children for the future.

Proposition O will:

•	Maintain and improve core academics such as math, science, reading and writing;

•	Retain highly qualified and experienced teachers;

•	Provide clean and safe classrooms;

•	Minimize future class-size increases;

•	Help protect art and music instruction.

Proposition O protects taxpayers and will:

•	Be limited to only four years;

•	Require by law that all funds must be spent locally and not be taken by the State and
spent elsewhere;

•	Establish a citizen's oversight committee to ensure funds are spent as promised;

•	Restrict spending so funds are used for academics and not administrative salaries.

Our neighborhood schools are our community's most important asset and number one priority.
Funding from Proposition O can be spent only on our neighborhood schools in South Bay
Union School District and is not part of the proposed San Diego USD parcel tax.
Proposition O deserves our support. Top quality teachers, strong academic programs and
community support have kept our schools strong. Now, we need your support more than ever.

Please join us in working to uphold the quality of our schools and our community by voting YES
ON PROPOSITION O!

FRANK B. CHERRY

SWTA President/6lh Grade Teacher

ALEX ANGUIANO
Resident/Parent

GARY TRIESCHMAN

Local Businessman

GENAI KERR

SBUSD Alumni/USA Olympian

SARA E. WOOD
Retired Teacher

N SD 571-069

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION O

Don't believe false promises

Don't think Proposition O will ONLY pay for critical classroom programs for our kids. NOT TRUE.
Read the ballot carefully. The school district can spend the parcel tax on ANYTHING that
“improves neighborhood schools" including “retaining quality teachers.’ That is code for
INCREASED salaries and pensions. Not ONE DIME is set aside for specific programs in math,
science or reading.

No accountability for YOUR tax dollars

Don’t be fooled by terms like “Taxpayer Safeguards". Prop O has NO safeguards to hold the
School Board accountable to spend your tax dollars as promised. The District doesn't need
ANOTHER committee with no powers to hold the District responsible for spending YOUR money.
This tax increase measure also fails to require performance and accountability metrics for
allocation of funds.

School districts need to live within their means

Homeowners already pay plenty in property taxes to help fund our schools. The District just
asked voters to increase property taxes in 2008. Prop O will Increase property taxes twice in two
years! When we can't afford to pay our bills, we cut back spending. When our school district
can't afford to pay its bills, it asks for more of YOUR tax dollars. Prop O offers no guarantees
money will be spent on students. Voting NO on Prop O holds their feet to the fire and demands
the reforms needed to help our students.

Opposed by the San Diego County Taxpayers Association.

Vote NO ON PROP O.

T.J. ZANE
Chair

San Diegans Against Government Waste

RUSSELL BUCKLEY
Retired High School Teacher

JOEL J. RUCKER
Retired Military

LANILUTAR
President & CEO

San Diego County Taxpayers Association

CHRIS CATE
Budget/Policy Analyst

N SD 571-070

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION O

Worst possible time to increase taxes

The School Board wants to increase your taxes when working families are struggling to make
their mortgage payments, and unemployment is in the double-digits. The School Board should
learn to live within its means, just like the rest of us.

The district raised taxes for school bonds just two years ago

Voters just approved a large school bond measure two years ago, Proposition X. But now the
school board is back for more. It seems that the school board is treating property owners as their
handy ATMs. Instead of asking for tax increases, the District needs to reduce costs and
streamline operations.

Tax Increase might end up shifting funds to pay and pension increases

While the money this tax would raise is targeted to certain needs, there is no guarantee any of
these areas will see increases in funding. Existing funds can be freed up to be spent on just
about anything the district desires - including pay raises and pensions.

This parcel tax hits lower-income residents hardest

The people who can least afford this tax increase will be hurt the most because you pay the same
amount whether you live in a small condo or a huge multi-million dollar estate. Likewise, a "mom
& pop" shop could pay the same amount as a billion dollar corporation. The tax is imposed even
on vacant properties.

School board needs to control district costs

If the Board would demand reasonable concessions from labor union bosses and bureaucrats, it
wouldn't need to hit taxpayers with yet another bill. The District can save millions through modest
reforms. This tax is a simple money grab - the District has no plan to balance its budget after this
"temporary" tax ends.

Vote NO on Prop O.

Visit www.sdcta.org for more info.

CRYSTAL TROTTER
Property Manager

LUANNA J. RUCKER
Retired Educator

RICHARD RIDER

HARVEY CLARK

Chairman, San Diego Tax Fighters

Property Manager/Owner

MICHAEL H. McDOWELL
Chairman, San Diego County Taxpayers Association

N SD 571-071

Our community is a special place, known for strong families and a commitment to taking care of
its own. And today the children of South Bay Union School District need your help.

We all know we can no longer count on the State to solve our problems. Proposition O provides
us with LOCALLY CONTROLLED FUNDING THAT, BY LAW, MUST BE SPENT ON OUR
ELEMENTARY STUDENTS AND CANNOT BE TAKEN BY THE STATE AND SPENT
ELSEWHERE.

The facts:

•	Proposition O funds will support continuing academic excellence by keeping class sizes small
and retaining excellent teachers.

•	Measures like Proposition O are specifically authorized under Proposition 13 so that
communities like ours can take control of their finances.

•	Proposition O funds will not pay for administrator salaries, salary increases or pensions.

•	The District has made - and continues to make - significant cuts in all areas of our budget.

•	Proposition O will last for only four years.

•	Independent Citizen's Oversight Committee and mandatory annual audits will ensure
Proposition O funds are spent as promised.

Quality schools are the cornerstone of our community. As citizens and taxpayers, we have all
benefited from past generations' investment in our schools. Now, it's our turn to see that our
children receive the education they deserve.

Vote YES on Proposition O.

KAREN DENSMORE	LAURA M. EDDINGTON

Community Member	Parent

JOSE PRECIADO	DANA TOMLINSON

Community Member/Alumnus	President, SBUSD Ed. Foundation

MARISSA E. WILSON
Parent/Community Member

N SD 571-072

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

INTRODUCTION

To maintain and improve academic programs including math, science, music, arts, reading and
writing; retain highly qualified teachers; provide clean and safe schools; and minimize future
class-size increases; shall South Bay Union School District raise $1.7 million per year for four
years through a parcel tax at a rate described in the voter pamphlet, provided there is
independent citizens' oversight and all funds are spent on neighborhood schools and cannot be
taken by the State and used elsewhere?

PURPOSE

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain exceptional public
education in our schools, the South Bay Union School District proposes to levy and collect a
qualified special parcel tax for a period of 4 years, beginning July 1, 2011, at a rate which produces
$1.7 million per fiscal year on each assessor's parcel located within the School District (see TAX
RATE" and "PROCEDURES" below) and to implement accountability measures in connection with
the special parcel tax to provide oversight and accountability to ensure that funds are used to:

•	Preserve excellence in core academic programs such as reading, writing, science and math;

•	Minimize class size increases in all grades and layoffs for dozens of highly qualified teachers
and school employees;

•	Continue teacher professional development by providing training programs and activities
that support high quality teaching;

•	Help protect arts and music instruction, course offerings and electives that provide a well-
rounded education, challenge students, allow students to be highly competitive for high
school and provide instructional support for those struggling with the basics;

•	Reduce the impact of deep budget cuts by providing a stable local funding source that
cannot be taken away by the State or other school districts; and

•	Protect the taxpayers' investment in education and ensure District accountability by
providing for oversight and independent financial audits of revenues and expenditures.

The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes listed above, unless
the Board of Trustees determines in any given year that changes in student population, fiscal
constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable.
In any event, the Board of Trustees will not fund any program or reduction other than those listed
above from the proceeds of the special parcel taxes.

TAX RATE

The qualified special tax shall be levied in an equal amount against each parcel of taxable
real property in the District in order to produce total special tax receipts in an amount not to
exceed $1.7 million per fiscal year for four years, commencing July 1, 2011. In no event shall the
qualified special tax exceed $96 per parcel per year, except as described below with respect to
multi-family rental units. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also
be exempt from the qualified special tax.

A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax bill from the
San Diego County Tax Collector, however, with respect to any parcel that is classified by the San
Diego County Assessor as multi-family residential containing 2 to 4 units shall constitute 2
parcels, and those containing 5 or more units shall constitute 5 parcels, for the purposes of
levying and collecting the special tax against such parcels to the extent permitted by law.

Calculation of the qualified special tax will be made annually by an independent financial
consultant retained by the District for such purpose and shall be provided to the Board in writing
no later than July 1 of each year.

In the event total special tax receipts in any single year exceed $1.7 million, such excess will
be applied as a credit in the calculation of the following year's levy of the qualified special tax.

Based on the current number of parcels in the District in fiscal year 2009-10, the District
estimates that the qualified special tax will be $96 per year per parcel in order to provide $1.7
million in funds for the District, subject to annual adjustment to provide for changes in the number
of parcels.

PR-1374-6

N SD 571-073

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE (Continued)

PROCEDURES

Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the special tax of $96 per parcel (as described
below) shall become effective as of July 1, 2011 and be collected by the San Diego County Tax
Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as
general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.

A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax bill from the
San Diego County Tax Collector, however, with respect to any parcel that is classified by the San
Diego County Assessor as multi-family residential containing 2 to 4 units shall constitute 2
parcels, and those containing 5 or more units shall constitute 5 parcels, for the purposes of
levying and collecting the special tax against such parcels to the extent permitted by law.

All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the
qualified special tax.

The procedures described herein with respect to the levy and collection of the special tax
and exemptions, and any additional procedures established by the Board of Trustees, shall be the
exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-
computation of the special parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the
District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as
necessary.

The District's Board of Trustees may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it
deems necessary or convenient for the administration of the qualified special tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and
50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special parcel
taxes levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special parcel tax
shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be
applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be
created into which the proceeds of the special parcel taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual
- written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of
funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the status of any
projects, programs, or purposes required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the
special taxes, as identified above.

In addition to the accountability measures required by State law, an independent Community
Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the
expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes
approved by the voters. The Community Oversight Committee will monitor the expenditures of
these funds by the District and will report on an annual basis to the Board and community on how
these funds have been spent.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the
District's adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the
adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special parcel taxes will be reduced annually
as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision
hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters,
should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

PR-1374-7

N SD 571-074

It's Our Water San Diego

Everything that goes down the storm drain ends up in
our rivers, lakes and eventually in our ocean.

With over 3 million residents in our County,
we all need to continue to do our part to keep pollution
out of our waterways.

Help keep our water clean by following these easy tips:

•	Never dump anything into the storm drain

•	Sweep paved walks, driveways and gutters

•	Avoid over-watering your lawn and garden

•	Recycle and properly dispose of waste

•	Pick up after vour pet

Remember, only rain down the storm drain!

For more information, call
1-888-THINK BLUE (1-888-844-6525)
or visit our website at
www.thinkbluesandiegoregion.org

San Diego
Region

think BLUE

This page would have been blank due to printing layouts.

The Registrar of Voters has used this space to provide additional Information.

FP-05-09

N SD 571-075

PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT

IT IS PROPOSED that the San Diego County Charter be amended by adding the following
Section to the County Charter:

Section 705.4: Prohibition on Requiring Project Labor Agreements.

(a)	For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply:

(1)	"Contractor" shall mean and include a contractor, subcontractor, material supplier,
carrier or other person or firm engaged in the completion of a construction project;

(2)	"Construction project" shall mean and include any project for the construction,
rehabilitation, alteration, conversion, extension, maintenance, repair, or improvement
of any structures or real property;

(3)	"Project labor agreement" shall mean any pre-hire, collective bargaining or similar
type of agreement entered into with one or more labor organizations, employees
or employee representatives that establishes the terms and conditions of
employment on a construction project.

(b)	Except as required by State or federal law as a contracting or procurement obligation,
or as a condition of the receipt of State or federal funds, the County shall not require a
contractor on a construction project to execute or otherwise become a party to a project
labor agreement as a condition of bidding, negotiating, awarding or the performing of a
contract.

(c)	Nothing in this Section shall be construed as prohibiting private parties that may
perform work on County construction projects from entering Into project labor
agreements or engaging in activity protected by law.

PR-CWOI-6

N SD 529-046

CITY OF CHULA VISTA
Proposition H

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROPH

Shall the ordinance to modernize the City’s 1978 Telephone Users’ Tax (renamed the
Telecommunications Users’ Tax), with no rate increase; maintain exemptions for low income
senior citizens; ensure Tax proceeds continue to be available for general municipal purposes,
including police, fire, streets, libraries, and parks; revise the method for calculating and collecting
the Tax to reflect technological and legal changes; and amend the tax base to equitably include
all applicable telecommunications services be adopted?

This proposition requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%)
of the voters voting on the proposition.

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments and rebuttals.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Since 1970, the City of Chula Vista has had a Utility Users’ Tax, which includes a Telephone
Users' Tax. The Telephone Users' Tax imposes a five percent (5%) tax on the use of intrastate
telephone communication services in the City of Chula Vista. Since the tax's inception, there
have been significant advances in telecommunications, both technological and legal.

In terms of technology, Chula Vista residents, instead of solely using traditional landline
telephones, now have additional technologies and services to choose from, including private
network communications (T-1 lines), cell phones, voice-over-internet telephone services (VoIP),
800 and 900 services, pre-paid calling card services, and paging services.

In terms of the legal changes, the current Utility Users' Tax was written before changes to
federal law, including The Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000 and IRS regulations,
concerning how the Federal Excise Tax ("FET") applies to long distance services, were made.

If approved by a majority of voters, Proposition H would modernize the Utility Users' Tax to
correspond with changes in telecommunications since the 1970's. Other cites have similarly
modernized their Utility Users' Tax. Consistent with the modernization of the Utility Users' Tax,
Proposition H renames the "Telephone Users' Tax", the "Telecommunications Users' Tax."

Proposition H establishes a modern definition of telecommunication services subject to the
tax. The modern definition would apply to all types of telecommunications regardless of the
technology that is used and regardless of whether the communication is intrastate, interstate, or
international. Among the telecommunication services are private network communications (T-1
line), cell phones, voice-over-internet telephone services (VoIP), 800 and 900 services, pre-paid
calling card services, and paging services. The Proposition ensures the Telecommunications
User's Tax is in compliance with current federal laws and assists to avoid potential litigation.

Proposition H continues the current tax rate of five percent (5%) that is imposed on
telecommunication services. While the tax rate has not changed, some types of
telecommunication services, which were not previously taxed, are now also taxed. Proposition H
does not tax Internet services or cable or video programming services subject to franchise fees.

Taxes generated from Proposition H are general taxes, meaning they go into the general
fund. General fund monies are used to pay for many public services, such as police, fire, libraries,
park and recreation services, and maintenance, repair, and replacement of City property.

Proposition H assigns the City Finance Director the duties of Tax Administrator, tasked with
administering the Proposition. The Proposition provides that the tax will be collected from the
telecommunications carrier. Should they fail to pay in a timely fashion, penalties and interest will
be assessed.

Proposition H provides that independent third party audits may continue to be conducted to
ensure the tax has been properly applied, exempted, collected and remitted, and revenues were
properly expended. Over paid taxes will be refunded. Anyone may appeal the assessment of the
tax. The Proposition continues the existing exemption for qualified senior citizens. The tax
cannot be increased without a vote of the residents of Chula Vista.

PR-09BO-1

N SD 529-047