Proposition L

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROP L

Shall Ordinance No. 404, that establishes and implements a Business Tax in the City of
Solana Beach to increase locally-controlled revenue for general City services and
operations, including but not limited to law enforcement, fire, parks and recreation, street
repairs, and capital improvement program projects, be adopted?

This proposition requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%)
of the voters voting on the proposition.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Proposition L proposes to adopt an ordinance to establish and implement a Business Tax to be
paid to the City of Solana Beach by each business located in or doing business in Solana Beach.
Revenues from the business tax would be deposited in the City's general fund, which will be used
to fund law enforcement and fire protection, parks and recreation programs, street repairs, and
capital improvement program projects.

The tax would apply only to businesses that conduct business in Solana Beach as authorized by
Government Code section 37101(a). It would not apply to 501(c)(3) non-profit organizations, owners
of less than 5 rental residential units, or to residents not engaging in a business in the City.

Under Proposition L, the annual tax rates are:

•	Residential property rentals of 5 or more units will pay a flat annual rate of $25 for each
residential rental unit.

■ Home-Based businesses will pay a flat rate of $75 annually.

•	All other businesses, the taxpayer may elect to pay a flat rate or a multiplier based on gross
receipts. The proposed measure contains a minimum fiat tax of $50 and a maximum flat tax
of $1,675 for those businesses earning $5,000,000 or over.

The ordinance also provides for an annual increase by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the
San Diego Region, California beginning April 2012 with a maximum cap of 2% per year. The City
Council may, on any given year, reduce or suspend the collection of the business tax.

The annual taxes are calculated based upon business activities during the prior calendar year.
Taxes are due on July Is* of each year and delinquent on July 31st. The ordinance has a delayed
implementation schedule for 2010 with the first payment due on October 15,2010 and delinquent
on January 15, 2011. In addition, the business tax due for 2010 is reduced and would be
charged at 50% of the usual rate.

Proposition L imposes a general tax and will take effect, if passed, by a simple majority (50%-t-l)
of voters casting a vote on the measure.

PREPARED BY:	Johanna	N. Canlas, City Attorney

City of Solana Beach

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance 404. If you
desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the elections official's office
at B58-720-2400 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.___________________

PR-09X0-1

NSD 024-054

The economic slowdown has severely impacted our City's ability to provide community services.
City revenues are down approximately 14% ($2 million). In addition, the State continues to grab
our local dollars to fix their budget. Like you, your city has substantially reduced its budget, cut
staff, decreased expenditures approximately 10.5% ($1.2 million), and used reserves to preserve
essential community services. Compared to similar cities in our region, Solana Beach uses some
of the fewest employees to deliver equivalent services.

Over 90% of cities located in the state utilize a business tax. In San Diego County, Solana Beach
is one of only 3 cities without a business tax. Businesses benefit just as residents and visitors do
from city provided services.

The Council understands no business wants to pay a tax. However, essential city services -
filling potholes, providing Sheriff, lifeguard and fire services - must be preserved. The Council
proposes a small fair share tax on businesses that ranges from 27 cents to 67.5 cents per $1000
earned in Solana Beach; home-based businesses pay $75 annually; owners of 5 or more
apartments pay $25/unit annually ($2/month). This is NOT a tax on consumers or residents.
Businesses are being asked to pay their fair share of the cost of services that keep our
community a safe and desirable place to live, visit and conduct business.

The City and local business owners, working together developed a business tax that is designed
to be fair and simple. In further cooperation with our businesses, recognizing the tough times
they are experiencing, Council phased the tax so just 50% of the amount due will be all that's
owed the first year, providing approximately $250,000 toward the $2 million revenue shortfall.

•

Help your city - vote Yes for the Fair Share Business Tax to maintain essential city services.

THOMAS M. CAMPBELL
Mayor

LESA HEEBNER
Deputy Mayor

JOE G. KELLEJIAN
Councilmember

DAVID W. ROBERTS
Councilmember

MIKE NICHOLS
Councilmember

PR-09X0-2

N SD 024-055

Reform before revenue

The City Council and City Manager want you to believe that they have done everything possible
to cut spending before proposing this new tax. It's not true. Modifying the city's employee
pension program could save hundreds of thousands of dollars evety year without affecting the
services residents receive.

Far beyond a "few dollars” on a few business and property owners, the true additional cost of this
measure will affect many people. Struggling businesses will likely be forced to pass these costs
on to customers by raising prices at a time when most people have little left to give. Apartment
owners will likely have to raise rents since they will be taxed higher than other businesses. It is
misleading to claim this is not ultimately a tax on consumers and residents.

Revenues raised by this measure are not restricted to paying for essential services. Quite the
contrary! They could end up paying for employee salary increases or pensions. This has been
done in the past following a tax increase. Instead of asking voters to increase taxes, city
employees should be asked to contribute a fair share to their own pensions. At most, city
employees pay a small fraction to their retirement accounts, while city taxpayers cover the rest -
sometimes over 20 times as much! What a deal! No wonder the city would rather increase taxes.

The real costs of this measure

Follow the money

Vote no on Proposition L. Insist on reform before revenue.

PATRICIA GOLDFARB
Owner/Operator

LANILUTAR
President & CEO

San Diego County Taxpayers Association

DEREK CRON
Solana Beach Resident

CARL E. TURNBULL
Business Owner

JAMES D. KING
70 Year Resident

N SD 024-056

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION L

THIS TAX HURTS SMALL BUSINESS

Now is not the time for more taxes. Unemployment exceeds 10%, home values have plummeted,
and many Solana Beach businesses are struggling just to keep their doors open.

The City could save nearly as much as it is hoping to raise with this tax by simply requiring its
employees to contribute the standard fair share toward their generous pension benefits. Instead,
the City wants to first tax small business, the lifeline of our economy.

A tax on businesses could increase the prices of goods, services and housing.

THE REAL REASON FOR THIS TAX: OUT OF CONTROL PENSION COSTS

The City's pension costs have more than doubled in the past 10 years. The City (using your tax
dollars) pays the majority of retirement contributions, while employees contribute next to nothing.
In some cases, employees can receive up to 98% of their highest year salary for life plus
annual cost of living increases.

Meanwhile, Solana Beach businesses have had to reduce or eliminate retirement benefits,
trim costs, lower salaries, and even lay off employees.

The City's unsustainable pension costs will continue to increase and negatively impact public
services. Pension reforms must be adopted before any new taxes will be tolerated.

For no justifiable reason, rental housing and some home-based businesses will be taxed at
higher rates than other businesses - meaning they'll unfairly pay more for city services.

Supporters of the tax hike say that Solana Beach is one of only three cities in the county without a
business tax. The "everyone-else-is-doing-it" argument does not hold water. This is a harmful
tax that will ultimately Increase costs for all Solana Beach residents.

THIS TAX IS UNFAIR

VOTE NO ON THIS TAX

DEREK CRON
Solana Beach Resident

DANIEL UTT
Property Owner

GEORGE LANDT
Property Owner

RICHARD RIDER

Chairman, San Diego Tax Fighters

ROBERT F. KEVANE
CPA; Business Owner; San Diego County Apartment Assoc., President

PR-09X0-4

N SD 024-057