PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT

The Charter of the County of San Diego would be amended by adding the following sections.
COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS TERM LIMITS CHARTER AMENDMENT

The people of the County of San Diego hereby ordain and enact as follows:

SECTION 1. TITLE.

This charter amendment shall be known as the County Board of Supervisors Term Limits Charter
Amendment.

SECTION 2. FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS.

A.	The same politicians have run San Diego County for years, but they have failed to address
the pressing Issues facing our County - issues like inadequate health care, ever-increasing traffic,
and fire protection.

B.	These career politicians have become so entrenched that they are routinely re-elected, even
though they've lost touch with the people of San Diego County. Indeed, no incumbent supervisor
in San Diego County has lost a re-election bid in more than two decades.

C.	We need new leaders in San Diego County - leaders with new ideas to improve the quality
of life in our County and leaders who are not captive to the special interests.

D.	The hold that the career politicians have on the levers of power makes it difficult for qualified
challengers to compete for office, much less succeed in being elected to the Board of Supervisors.

E.	We need reasonable limits on the terms that a person can serve to end the reign of career
politicians and to promote the opportunity for new leaders to serve the best interests of our
community, not the special interests.

SECTION 3. PURPOSE AND INTENT.

In enacting this charter amendment, it is the purpose and intent of the people of the County of
San Diego County to:

A.	Encourage qualified candidates to seek public office by placing reasonable limitations upon
the number of terms which may be served by members of the Board of Supervisors in their
lifetimes.

B.	Ensure that the public interest is served rather than the special interests by promoting fresh
leadership to address the pressing problems facing San Diego County.

SECTION 4. CHARTER AMENDMENT.

The Charter of the County of San Diego is hereby amended to add Section 401.5 to Article IV, as
follows:

Section 401.5: Term Limits.

(a)	No person may serve for more than two terms as a Supervisor, regardless of district
represented, after the effective date of this section.

(b)	Any person who is elected or appointed to an unexpired term as a Supervisor after the
effective date of this section and who serves more than one-half of a full term of office shall be
deemed, for purposes of this section, to have served a full term.

(c)	Any Supervisor who resigns or is removed from office with less than one-half of a full term
remaining until the expiration of the term shall be deemed, for the purpose of this section, to have
served a full term.

SECTION 5. AMENDMENT.

This initiative may be amended only by a majority of the voters of San Diego County at a regular
election.

SECTION 6. SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this initiative or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this initiative which can be
given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this initiative
are severable. In enacting this initiative, it is the express intent of the voters that, if any provision of
this initiative is held invalid, the remainder of the initiative shall be given full force and effect.

SECTION 7. CONFLICTING INITIATIVES.

In the event that this initiative and another initiative measure or measures relating to term limits
shall appear on the same County election ballot, the provisions of the other initiative or initiatives
shall be deemed to be in conflict with this initiative. In the event that this initiative receives a
greater number of affirmative votes, the provisions of this initiative shall prevail in their entirety,
and the provisions of the other initiative shall be null and void.

N SD 030-052

CITY OF DEL MAR

Proposition J

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROP J

Shall the ordinance amending the definition of Hotel and thereby requiring the payment of
Transient Occupancy Taxes (TOT) by guests of Short Term Rentals (for 30 days or less) be
adopted?

This proposition requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%)
of the voters voting on the proposition.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

EXISTING LAW:	The	City	of	Del	Mar	currently imposes, for the privilege of occupancy in any

hotel, a transient occupancy tax on any hotel guest who rents a unit in a hotel for 30 days or less
at the current rate of 11.5% of the rent charged by the hotel operator. Under existing law, any
such rental in any structure or portion of any structure which has three or more units is subject to
this tax. The term "hotel" is defined to include hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio
hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public or
private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed location or other similar structure or portion
thereof.

EFFECT OF MEASURE ON EXISTING LAW:	If	a majority of the votes cast on this measure

are "yes”, then commencing ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council, existing
law would be amended to apply the application of the transient occupancy tax regardless of the
number of units in a structure and to expressly include short term rental units (for 30 days or less)
in the definition of the term "hotel". Consequently, any guest of a hotel (as defined), regardless of
the number of units contained in the structure, along with the short term rentals, would be
required to pay the transient occupancy tax which is currently at a rate of 11.5% of the rent
charged.

FISCAL IMPACT:	Undetermined.	The	tax	is	a	general tax and revenues derived are for the

benefit of the City's general fund. The amount of the tax revenue that will result from the
proposed tax cannot be determined in advance of knowing the amount of rents received by
operators of short term rentals.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Proposition J. If you desire a copy of the
Proposition, please call the City Clerk's office at (858) 755-9313.

Date: March 22, 2010

Leslie E. Devaney, City Attorney

N SD 030-053

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION J

Vote Yes on Proposition J - Short-Term Vacation Rental Measure.

Your "Yes'' vote on Proposition J will raise about $175,000 a year toward helping Del Mar pay for
beach and park maintenance, fire safety and law enforcement. Instead of the citizens of our
community shouldering all of these expenses, Proposition J proposes that vacationers who stay
in short-term rentals pay their fair share.

Proposition J allows for the collection of a transient occupancy tax (TOT) from visitors who stay
for 30 days or less at vacation rentals other than at our local hotels and motels (such as
guesthouses, condos and apartments). Hotel- and motel-room vacationers pay the TOT now
when visiting Del Mar and, unlike other revenue sources, every TOT dollar collected in Del Mar
remains in Del Mar.

Vacationers staying in rental properties do not currently pay a TOT, even though these visitors
use the same Del Mar amenities and services as hotel and motel guests. Unless we apply the
TOT tax to all vacation renters, the tab for all the things these vacationers enjoy - police, fire and
lifeguard protection, and beach and ocean-front park maintenance, among other city services -
will continue to be paid by the citizens of Del Mar.

Other North County coastal cities, including Solana Beach, Encinitas, Carlsbad and Oceanside,
as well as Chula Vista, Escondido, Imperial Beach and San Diego charge a hotel tax on short-
term vacation rentals. We should, too. Vote "YES" on Proposition J to ensure that all visitors pay
their fair share of city services during their stay AND to ensure the continued financial health of
your community.

Please join us in voting "Yes" on Proposition J.

RICHARD EARNEST, Mayor
Del Mar City Council

DONALD MOSIER
Deputy Mayor
Del Mar City Council

CRYSTAL CRAWFORD

Councilmember

Del Mar City Council

CARL HILLIARD
Councilmember
Del Mar City Council

MARK FILANC
Councilmember
Del Mar City Council

PR-09D0-2

N SD 030-054

rebuttal to the argument in favor of proposition j

Increased tax burden on homeowners

Del Mar homeowners are already paying plenty in property taxes to pay for services like police,
fire and lifeguard protection Proposition J would charge yet another tax just for renting a room to
a friend or family member The City's argument for this tax increase says it's a tax on visitors.
But the likely reality is that homeowners will be writing checks to the City to cover this tax.

The City doesn't need more money to maintain essential services. Revenues exceeded
expenses in 2009 and are projected to do the same this year and the next.

Prop J revenue could pay for employee salary and pension benefit increases

The taxes collected from this measure are not restricted. They could end up being used to pay
City employee salary and pension benefit increases. Not a penny is guaranteed to go toward the
services outlined in the Council's argument.

Are you breaking the law?

If a family member or friend slays with you for 30 days or less and you get paid anything, you'll be
breaking the law if you don't pay this new tax. You could even be subjected to government
regulation and inspection of your personal property! If your property is deemed ''unsafe," it could
cost you thousands in repairs.

The cost of policing these regulations could exceed the revenue it would generate.

Vote NO on Prop J.

Visit www.sdcta.org for the San Diego County Taxpayers Association Prop J analysis.

JOHN HARADEN
Del Mar Resident

LANILUTAR
President & CEO

San Diego County Taxpayers Association

GARY GONSALVES, M.D.	HERSHELL	PRICE

Co-Founder, Stop Taxing Us	Del	Mar	Resident

CAROL KATZ
Del Mar Resident

N SD 030-055

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION J

The proposed Cottage, or home tax, will be a heavy tax upon our entire community. It is not
only a tax; it is further regulation of our property. This tax measure will apply to every home in
Del Mar, even if it is not being rented at the present time.

Circumstances change in our lives. If any homeowner should have to rent their home in the
future due to unexpected reasons, would we want this tax and regulation to be in place? It will
be, if this proposition passes. If you decide to rent your home on a short-term basis - even for a
week - you must complete an application, be approved, be issued an annual permit which must
be paid for, you must comply with written regulations dictating the use, you must keep records,
then collect and pay the tax to the city. Why should our homeowners be burdened by these
unneeded bureaucratic requirements?

Some homeowners rent their homes JUST TO HELP PAY THEIR PROPERTY TAXES. The

right to rent our homes on a short-term basis has been enjoyed without any problems or
government regulation long before Del Mar was a city. The bureaucratic costs of
administration and enforcement will likely exceed questionable projected revenue
benefits.

Short-term rentals are part of the fabric of Del Mar and have never needed regulation. This
regulation will cause a loss of property rights we have always had. Once we give up our property
rights by voting to regulate, it is almost impossible to get them back from government; they're
gone forever.

This tax will be enforced by internet snooping to check on just who is renting their home. Do
we need more government intrusion in our lives? Stop this divisive and unwarranted tax.

Vote NO on Proposition J.

HERSHELL PRICE
Del Mar Resident

H. RANDALL STOKE
Del Mar Resident

JILL CAREY
Del Mar Resident

MERNA STURGIS
Del Mar Resident

ADMIRAL JACK BATZLER, Retired, USN
Del Mar Resident

N SD 030-056

rebuttal to the argument against proposition j

Proposition J is a proposed tax on tourists, not a tax on cottages or homes or on Del Mar
homeowners. The proposition, called a transient occupancy tax or TOT, would require vacation
rental guests who stay 30 days or less to pay the same tax that Del Mar hotel and motel guests
currently pay The tax Is bourne by the tourist, not the homeowner.

Why should tourists pay this tax? Tourists staying in short-term rentals use city services,
including our beaches, parks, fire safety, and law enforcement and do not have to pay for them.
Del Mar residents and businesses pay for these services, as well as hotel and motel guests who
visit Del Mar.

Proposition J is in the best interests of the citizens of Del Mar. This is a local tax. All of the

funds collected from tourists stay in the City. It is one of the few ways Del Mar can have tourists
help pay to fund services in our community.

Who would be against Proposition J? Tourists who stay in these rentals. Without this
proposed tax, they enjoy the benefits without paying their fair share of the costs of keeping our
City safe and beautiful.

It's only fair to treat all tourists the same way. Solana Beach, Encinitas, Carlsbad, Oceanside,
Chula Vista, Escondido, Imperial Beach, San Diego, and the County of San Diego all charge a
TOT on vacation rentals.

RICHARD EARNEST, Mayor
Del Mar City Council

DONALD MOSIER
Deputy Mayor

Del Mar City Council

CRYSTAL CRAWFORD

Councilmember

Del Mar City Council

CARL HILLIARD
Councilmember
Del Mar City Council

MARK FILANC

Councilmember
Del Mar City Council

PR-09D0-5

N SD 030-057