

CITY OF SACRAMENTO
MEASURE C

C “Marijuana Business Tax. To help preserve essential
services like fire, police, and 911 emergency
response, shall City of Sacramento's business opera-
tions tax be updated by taxing businesses engaged in med-
ical marijuana transactions, and in commercial production
and sale of marijuana if legalized by California voters, at max-
imum rates of 4% and 10%, respectively, of gross receipts,
with City Council discretion to lower tax rates or raise tax
rates to the maximums, and requiring independent audits?"

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Prepared by Sacramento City Attorney

Measure C would enact an ordinance amending the City of
Sacramento’s existing Business Operations Tax to set new tax
rates for “marijuana businesses." A marijuana business would be
defined to include planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing,
storing, packaging, providing, or selling marijuana, including med-
ical marijuana “cooperatives" and “collectives” that are estab-
lished as not-for-profit businesses.

Under the City’s existing Business Operations Tax ordinance,
marijuana businesses and most other businesses are taxed
based on gross receipts, meaning a business’s total revenue with-
out deducting expenses. Under the existing ordinance, the tax
rate for businesses with annual gross receipts of $10,000 or less
is a flat rate of $30 each year, while the tax rate for businesses
with annual gross receipts in excess of $10,000 is $30 each year,
plus $0.0004 for each additional dollar of gross receipts in excess
of $10,000. The annual tax liability under the City’s existing ordi-
nance is capped at $5,000.

Measure C would remove this cap for marijuana businesses
and establish new gross receipts tax rates for these businesses.
For a marijuana business providing marijuana pursuant to the
Compassionate Use Act of 1996 ("medical marijuana"), the tax
rate would be a maximum of 4% of the business’s annual gross
receipts. For a marijuana business providing non-medical marijua-
na pursuant to the “Regulate, Control, and Tax Cannabis Act of
2010" (Proposition 19), if approved by California voters, the tax
rate would be a maximum of 10% of the business’s annual gross
receipts. The City Council would have the discretion to lower or
raise the tax rates from time to time, not to exceed the maximum
tax rates of 4% for medical marijuana and 10% for non-medical
marijuana.

The marijuana business tax proposed by Measure C is a gen-
eral tax because the City could use the tax revenue for any legal
municipal purpose. Measure C would require the City to perform
annual independent audits to verify that tax revenues are proper-
ly expended.

A “yes" vote is in favor of amending Sacramento’s existing
Business Operations Tax to set the new tax rates for marijuana
businesses. A “no" vote is against amending the ordinance, and
would leave in effect the existing Business Operations Tax rate for
marijuana businesses. A majority of "yes” votes is required for the
ordinance to be enacted.

Eileen M. Teichert

City Attorney

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.08.120, SECTION
3.08.170 AND ADDING SECTION 3.08.205 TO CHAPTER 3.08
TITLE 3 OF THE SACRAMENTO CITY CODE APPLYING THE
BUSINESS OPERATIONS TAX TO MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
AT A HIGHER TAX RATE

BE IT ENACTED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
SACRAMENTO:

SECTION 1

This ordinance amends section 3.08.120 and 3.08.170 of, and
adds section 3.08.205 to. Chapter 3.08 Title 3 of the Sacramento
City Code, and is made effective by voter approval of a business
operations tax ballot measure.

SECTION 2

BACKGROUND

A.	Through the passage of Proposition 215 in 1996, the voters
of California authorized the use of marijuana for medical
purposes.

B.	Every person engaged in business activity in the City of
Sacramento is required to obtain a business operations tax
certificate and pay the City’s business operations tax.

C.	The City's business operations tax is based, in part, on the
type of business subject to the tax. Currently, medical
marijuana businesses are taxed (ike most other businesses,
based on gross receipts.

D.	Proposition 19, if approved by the voters at the November 2,
2010, General Election, will legalize the commercial sale,
use, and possession of marijuana for other than medical use.

E.	In applying the business operations tax to marijuana busi-
nesses, the City Council is mindful of the fact that the
economic burden of taxes imposed on businesses may be
directly or indirectly passed on to their customers, in whole or
in part. To help mitigate the economic burden that this tax
may have on users of medical marijuana, it is the intent of the
City Council to tax medical marijuana businesses at a lower
rate than businesses that engage in the commercial sale of
marijuana for nonmedical use.

F.	The City now desires to tax marijuana businesses as a
specific category subject to a higher tax rate, and to give the
City Council authority to implement lower rates as it deems
appropriate.

G The ordinance will require annual financial audits of tax
expenditures and will require voter approval of increases to
the tax rates above the authorized maximum rates.

H. Increasing the business operations tax requires voter
approval.

i. A measure that would give effect to this ordinance is
proposed for placement on the November 2, 2010, ballot.

J. The City depends upon the revenue generated by the
business operations tax to continue providing essential City
services supported by the City's general fund, such as police,
fire protection, and emergency response.

SECTION 3

Section 3.08.120 of the Sacramento City Code is amended to
read as follows:

3.08.120	Application for first certificate.

A person making application for the first certificate to be issued, or
for a newly established business or for a new ownership of a pre-
viously established-business, shall furnish to the administrator a
sworn statement, on a form provided by the administrator, setting
forth the following information:

Ballot Type 097 Page 21

www.elections.saccounty.net

A.	The exact nature or lend of business for which a certificate is
requested;

B.	The place where such business is to be carried on, and if the
business is not to be carried on at any permanent place of
business, the places of residence of the owners of the
business;

C.	The fictitious name or names under which the business will
be operated, if any, and the name of the person to whom the
certificate is issued;

D.	Such further information as the administrator may deem
necessary to enable him or her to issue the certificate applied
for, including but not limited to gross receipts information for
the current and prior years.

The administrator may also collect demographic information from
each applicant.

This data shall be provided on a voluntary basis.

SECTION 4

Section 3.08.170 of the Sacramento City Code is amended to
read as follows:

3.08.170 Gross receipts.

Every person not falling within the categories described in
Sections 3.08,180,3.08.190,3.08.200, and 3.08.205 of this chap-
ter shall pay an annual business operations tax as follows:

A.	Every person which has gross receipts of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) or less shall pay a tax of thirty dollars
($30.00) for each year.

B.	Every person which has gross receipts in excess of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00), shall pay a tax of thirty dollars
($30.00) plus $.0004 for each dollar of gross receipts in
excess of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for the reporting
period; provided, however, that the maximum annual tax
liability for any person under this section shall be five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00).

SECTION 5

A.	This Section 5 shall become operative only if the
"Regulate, Control, and Tax Cannabis Act of 2010,"
adding Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Division 10 of the Health
and Safety Code (commencing with section 11300), is
not approved by the voters in the Genera! Election on
November 2, 2010.

B.	Section 3.08.205 is added to Chapter 3.08 of the
Sacramento City Code to read as follows:

3.08.205 Marijuana businesses.

A.	Every person engaged in a marijuana business shall pay an
annual business operations tax as follows:

1.	On and after July 1, 2011, four percent (4%) of each
dollar of gross receipts for the reporting period.

2.	Notwithstanding the tax rate imposed in subsection A.1,
the City Council may, in its discretion, at any time by
resolution implement any lower tax rate it deems appropriate,
and may by resolution increase such tax rate from time to
time, not to exceed the maximum rate established under
subsection A.1.

B.	For purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings: "Gross receipts" has the meaning as
defined in section 3.08.020, as it pertains to the marijuana
business’ reporting period, and includes receipts from the
sale of marijuana and from the sale of paraphernalia used for
consuming marijuana and any other products, goods, or
services sold or provided by the marijuana business.

"Marijuana" or "Cannabis" has the meaning as defined in
California Health and Safety Code section 11018.

"Marijuana business" means a business activity including, but not

limited to, planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting, manufac-
turing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing,
packaging, providing, or selling wholesale and/or retail sales of
marijuana. A marijuana business includes any facility, building,
structure or location, whether fixed, mobile, permanent or tempo-
rary, where marijuana is made available, sold, given, distributed,
or otherwise provided in accordance with Health and Safety Code
section 11362.5 and Article 2.5 of Chapter 6 of Division 10 of the
Health and Safety Code (Health and Safety Code section 11362.7
et seq.). A marijuana business includes medical marijuana "coop-
eratives" and "collectives" that are established as not for profit
businesses.

"Reporting period" means a year, quarter or calendar month, as
determined by the administrator.

C.	The provisions of section 3.08.210 do not apply to any
marijuana business.

SECTION 6

A.	This Section 6 shall become operative only if the "Regulate,
Control, and Tax Cannabis Act of 2010," adding Article 5 of
Chapter 5 of Division 10 of the Health and Safety Code
(commencing with section 11300), is approved by the voters
and becomes effective on or before July 1, 2011.

B.	Section 3.08.205 is added to Chapter 3.08 of the
Sacramento City Code to read as follows:

3.08.205 Marijuana businesses.

A.	Every person engaged in a marijuana business under Health
and Safety Code section 11362.5 and Article 2.5 of Chapter 6
of Division 10 of the Health and Safety Code (Health and
Safety Code section 11362.7 et seq.) shall pay an annual
business operations tax as follows:

1.	On and after July 1,2011, four percent (4%) of each dollar
of gross receipts for the reporting period.

2.	Notwithstanding the tax rate imposed in subsection A.1,
the City Council may, in its discretion, at any time by
resolution implement any lower tax rate it deems appropriate,
and may by resolution increase such tax rate from time to
time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate established under
subsection A.1.

B.	Every person engaged in a marijuana business pursuant to
the "Regulate, Control, and Tax Cannabis Act of 2010,"
Adding Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Division 10 of the Health and
Safety Code (commencing with section 11300), shall pay an
annual business operations tax as follows:

1,	On and after July 1, 2011, ten percent (10%) of each
dollar of gross receipts for the reporting period.

2.	Notwithstanding the tax rate imposed in subsection 8.1, the
City Council may, in its discretion, at any time by resolution
implement any lower tax rate it deems appropriate, and may
by resolution increase such tax rate from time to time, not to
exceed the maximum tax rate established under
subsection 8.1.

C.	For purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings: "Gross receipts" has the meaning as
defined in section 3.08.020, as it pertains to the marijuana
business' reporting period, and includes receipts from the
sale of marijuana and from the sale of paraphernalia used for
consuming marijuana and any other products, goods, or
services sold or provided by the marijuana business.
"Marijuana" or "Cannabis" has the meaning as defined in
California Health and Safety Code section 11018. "Marijuana
business" means a business activity including, but not limit-
ed to, planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing,
preparing, storing, packaging, providing, or selling wholesale
and/or retail sales of marijuana. A marijuana business
includes any facility, building, structure or location, whether

Ballot Type 097 Page 22

www.elections.saccounty.net

fixed, mobile, permanent or temporary, where marijuana is
made available, sold, given, distributed, or otherwise provid-
ed in accordance with Health and Safety Code section
11362.5 and Article 2.5 of Chapter 6 of Division 10 of the
Health and Safety Code (Health and Safety Code section
11362.7 et seq.), or Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Division 10 of
the Health and Safety Code (commencing with section
11300). A marijuana business includes medical marijuana
"cooperatives" and "collectives" that are established as not
for profit businesses. "Reporting period" means a year, quar-
ter or calendar month, as determined by the Administrator.

D.	The provisions of section 3.08.210 do not apply to any
marijuana business.

SECTION 7

Amendment or Repeal. The maximum business operations
tax imposed by this ordinance may be decreased, repealed, or
amended by the City Council, but may not be exceeded without a
vote of the people as required in California Constitution Article
XIIIC and California Government Code section 53750(h).

SECTION 8

Audit of business operations tax. The City shall annually audit
the business operations taxes imposed by this ordinance to verify
that tax revenues have been properly expended in accordance
with the law. The annual audit shall be performed under the direc-
tion of the Director of Finance by a qualified independent third
party employing reasonable, cost-effective procedures.

SECTION 9

Severability. If any portion of this ordinance is for any reason
held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent juris-
diction, the remaining portions of this ordinance shall remain in
effect. The people of the City of Sacramento hereby declare that
they would have adopted each portion of this ordinance, notwith-
standing the fact that anyone or more portions of this ordinance is
declared invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions
of this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 10

Majority Approval; Effective Date. This ordinance shall be
effective only if approved by a majority of the voters voting on this
ordinance and shall go into effect on July 1, 2011.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

The national recession is crippling local governments everywhere,
and the City of Sacramento is no exception. This year, the City
closed a $43 million budget gap; next year, the gap will be at least
$25 million. If the State of California continues to raid funding ear-
marked for cities, the City's deficit will grow larger. We have elim-
inated non-essential services, cut back critical services wherever
possible, laid off employees, and pared budgets to the bone.
Some of our City Departments, including City Code Enforcement,
have had their budgets slashed by over 50%. Soon, well be
forced to scale back other vital functions, including public safety.

We have held the line against increasing taxes on local business-
es, because they are already struggling to stay afloat. We have
resisted efforts to place a parcel tax on the ballot when so many
Sacramentans are fighting to save their homes. We believe that
the City needs new revenue sources. That's why we are support-
ing Measure C. This measure will extend the City's Business
Operations Tax to Medical Marijuana Dispensaries at the rate of
up to four percent.

In 1996, some 60 percent of Sacramento voters approved the
Compassionate Use Act to allow for the cultivation and sale of
medical marijuana. Since then, medical marijuana has been sold
in the City to patients who qualify. While most medical marijuana
dispensaries pay sales taxes, so far they have not paid the same
tax rates that similar businesses are required to pay in other cities.
The City of Sacramento needs this new revenue to keep provid-

ing the services you depend upon. Vote yes on Measure C.

s/Jaymes Butler, Vice President
Sacramento Area Fire Fighters

s/Mark A. Tyndale, Vice President
Sacramento Police Officers Association

s/Russell Fehr
City Treasurer

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C WAS FILED

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE C WAS FILED

Ballot Type 097 Page 23

www.elections.saccounty.net