
<impartial> Impartial Analysis by County Counsel

Counties in California have the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on a special tax proposal pursuant to section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and sections 23027, 50075-50077 and 53722 of the California Government Code.
The Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara proposes levying a special tax on each
taxable parcel of land within the boundaries of the County. A parcel is any unit of land in the
County that receives a tax bill from the Tax Collector. The owners of each parcel would annually
pay $29 per parcel for a period of 10 years, starting on January 1, 2011.

The purpose of the special tax proposed by Measure A is to partially fund health insurance
premiums to continue to provide health care for otherwise uninsured children or children who do
not qualify for a public program. The premiums would be used to provide medical, dental and
vision benefits to children up to age 19 and whose families earn no more than 300 percent of the
federal poverty level. Up to three percent of the funds collected from the special tax could be
used for outreach to help enroll children from qualified families. No funds would be used to fund
administrator salaries.

The proceeds of the special tax would be deposited into a special account established by the
County. These proceeds would only be applied to the specific purposes described above, as set
forth in the ballot measure. The County would be required to keep on file with the County
Executive's Office annual reports stating the amount of funds collected and spent, and the status
of any project authorized to be funded. The first report would be filed by the County's Director
of Finance no later than January 1, 2012, and reports would be filed at least once a year
thereafter. A Citizens Oversight Committee would be established to review the annual report
each year to ensure that the tax funds were spent in compliance with the specific purposes
approved by the voters. The funds collected and spent would also be subject to an annual audit.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a $29 per year per parcel qualified special tax on parcels within

the County for a ten-year period of time.

A "no" vote is a vote not to approve a $29 per year per parcel qualified special tax on parcels
within the County for a ten-year period of time. <impartialend>




<impartialsigs> Miguel Marquez
County Counsel
By: /s/ Elizabeth G. Pianca
Deputy County Counsel <impartialsigsend>




<favor> Arguments For Measure A

For nearly a decade, Santa Clara County has provided healthcare insurance for thousands of
children. Now, this nationally-recognized program is in peril. Yes on Measure A would provide
a sustainable source of funds to maintain this vital program.

Yes on Measure A will ensure that ALL eligible county children have access to health
insurance including preventative healthcare services and early detection and treatment for such
terrible illnesses as asthma or diabetes. It means immunizations, regular checkups, helping
prevent childhood obesity, and keeping children in school.

Yes on Measure A is a smart investment. Early treatment makes sense medically AND
financially as children who get early treatment don't usually depend on the County's emergency
room or clinics for help. That saves us all precious tax dollars. This program allows the County
to enroll eligible children in federal or state health programs leveraging an additional $24 million
in local funding.

90% of those who now participate have one or two working parents - they just simply cannot
afford private health insurance. Covered families must do their share, contributing co-payments
and premiums.

Measure A will also ensure that children not covered by the recently approved Federal healthcare
reform, are insured locally. The Federal program alone is not enough.

Finally, Measure A includes strict accountability measures. Annual audits will be made public.
A Citizen's Oversight Committee will be appointed to review expenditures and monitor success
rates.

Without Measure A, thousands of kids will lose health coverage.

Yes on Measure A is supported by a wide and politically diverse cross-section of Santa Clara
County - from business to labor, from conservatives to liberals. This program works and we hope
you vote to preserve it. Yes on Measure A will ensure that ALL Santa Clara County children
have full access to healthcare. Please join us. Vote Yes on Measure A. (www.AVoteForK.ids.
com). <favorend>




<favorsigs> /s/ Michael M. Honda
Member of Congress
/s/ Laurie Smith
Sheriff Santa Clara County
/s/ Thomas Werner
SunPower Corp., CEO
/s/ Ken Yeager

Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors, President

/s/ Joanne E. Allen

St. Louise Regional Hospital - Gilroy, CEO <favorsigsend>






<rebutfavor> Rebuttal to Arguments For

Aren't we Taxed Enough Already? Vote NO on Measure A!

Problems with this parcel tax:

•	Hits already struggling homeowners hardest.

•	The list of taxes and assessments on our property tax bills are already long enough.

•	After ten years there is no existing financial data that proves this program is a "smart
investment."

•	Raising local taxes to "leverage" state and federal taxes means increased spending
requiring us to pay more in state and federal taxes.

Our federal and state tax dollars already fund Medi-Cal and California's Healthy Families for
eligible children. This program is also receiving "First Five" and tobacco tax dollars. Why then
the need for more local tax dollars to fund those who don't qualify for programs we are already
paying for? There has to be a legitimate reason they are ineligible for the existing program and
recently approved Federal healthcare reform.

Stimulate your household economy by voting NO on this and all the other tax increases on this
ballot.

Vote NO on Measure A! <rebutfavorend>





<rebutfavorsigs> /s/ Douglas A. McNea

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association
/s/ Brian S. Darby

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle
District Resident <rebutfavorsigsend>





<against> Arguments Against Measure A

We already pay for children's health care—through Medi-Cal and California's Healthy Families
Program.

Who are we to force others to pay this tax? Many of our neighbors are "under water"—or close to
it—in their mortgages. Many more are struggling to keep their homes due to unemployment. Do
we have a right to say they must pay for others—or else?

Measure A alone is costing us County taxpayers $1.4 million already—just to be on the ballot.
That's just one example of government's cost of overhead and waste being so high.

If this really were for children, it would have made more sense to give the $1.4 million directly
to Healthy Kids or the county hospital. Who makes better use of their money: private, voluntary
charities, who must work well or close their doors—or government agencies, who know that
taxpayer funds will be there no matter what?

There are too many new taxes being proposed this election. Now is the wrong time to approve
new taxes on others who are already struggling with shrinking or fixed income. Vote NO on
Measure A. If you have the means, donate directly to Santa Clara Family Health Foundation, and
encourage others to do the same, thus helping without hurting others who are hurting already.

It's time to put an end to the notion that if a cause is worthwhile, we should force taxpayers to be
"charitable." What a contradiction.

Make a voluntary contribution, if you choose, and then protect your fellow taxpayers: VOTE NO
on Measure A!

For more information visit http ://www. S VTaxpavers.org. <againstend>





<againstsigs> /s/ Douglas A. McNea

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association
/s/ Brian S. Darby

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
/s/ Mark W. A. Hinkle
District Resident <againstsigsend> 





<rebutagainst> Rebuttal to Arguments Against

Leading business executives and fiscally prudent community leaders support Yes on Measure A
because it makes sense financially.

A decade ago, Santa Clara County treated thousands of sick children annually at the County
hospital emergency room or clinics - a very expensive way to care for sick children. It cost
taxpayers millions and impacted funding for other vital healthcare programs.

After the Healthy Kid's program started and eligible families received health insurance for their
children, sick children received treatment or preventative healthcare services without going to
the County emergency room. Instead of costly healthcare once they became sick, children could
get immunizations and regular check-ups - while staying in school.

This program has saved taxpayers millions. It also leverages $24 million more annually in
federal/state funding.

But after a decade of public/private partnerships between the County and private charities,
private sector funding is disappearing. If private donations could sustain the program, this
measure would not be proposed.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure A to provide a stable source of funding. For a
homeowner or property owner, the cost is about $2 per month — that's all. Yet, should the
program be eliminated, the cost to taxpayers will be far greater and threaten other vital County
healthcare services we all rely upon.

Annual audits and strict accountability measures are required.

Please join us in making a fiscally sound decision - vote Yes on Measure A. http://

www.AVoteForKids.com <rebutagainstend>





 
<rebutagainstsigs> /s/ Donald F. Gage

Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors, District 1
/s/ Susan W. Hammer
former Mayor of San Jose
/s/ Carl Guardino

Silicon Valley Leadership Group, CEO
/s/ Gregg Adams

former Chief of Pediatric Trauma-Santa Clara Valley Medical Center/ Clinical associate
Professor of Surgery-Stanford School of Medicine

/s/ Dana Tom

Palo Alto Unified School District Board Trustee <rebutagainstsigsend>






<summary> Measure A; Santa Clara County Children’s Health Protection, County of
Santa Clara

To protect and maintain children's health and prevent serious illnesses through regular medical
checkups, immunizations, and early detection; to reduce costs from unnecessary emergency
room use; and to prevent elimination of insurance coverage for low-income children of working
families; shall Santa Clara County enact a $29 dollar annual parcel tax; limited to 10 years;
with independent citizens oversight, full public disclosure of all spending, and subject to audits?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a $29 per year per parcel qualified special tax on parcels within
the County for a ten-year period of time.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote not to approve a $29 per year per parcel qualified special tax on parcels
within the County for a ten-year period of time. <summaryend>






<full> Full Text of Measure A

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION
By approval of this measure by at least two-thirds of the registered voters voting on the measure,
the County of Santa Clara will be authorized to levy a special tax of $29 per parcel per year,
subject to accountability requirements specified below. If approved, the special tax will be levied
for 10 consecutive years starting on January 1, 2011.

INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
The County of Santa Clara launched the nation's first universal children's health insurance
program, known as Healthy Kids, through the Children's Health Initiative (CHI) in 2001. When
Healthy Kids program started, one out of eight children in Santa Clara County did not have
health coverage. Due to the efforts of CHI, 97% of children now have health coverage. The CHI
has assisted over 171,000 children in applying for Medi-Cal, Healthy Families and Healthy Kids
- the three programs comprising the Children's Health Initiative. Healthy Kids provides medical,
dental and vision benefits for all children up to age 19 who are living in the County, whose
families earn no more than 300 percent of the federal poverty level and are ineligible for
government-sponsored health insurance. Over 37,000 individual children have received health
care coverage through the Healthy Kids program since its inception.

Studies have found children enrolled in Healthy Kids are more likely to get the care they need to
ensure healthy development, including preventive care, immunizations and basic, routine care
with their own doctors. Specifically, the percentage of children with a usual source for medical
care almost doubled and unmet medical need dropped by more than half.

Studies have also found that insured children perform better in school and are better prepared to
succeed in life. The number of students missing three or more school days in the previous month
due to health problems dropped by more than 50 percent. With Healthy Kids, children were able
attend to class more frequently and are more likely to succeed, and schools received additional
revenue to pay for the cost of education.

Healthy Kids has leveraged millions in state and federal resources for Santa Clara County
community clinics and local schools. With increased enrollment in Medi-Cal and Healthy
Families, Healthy Kids leverages more than $24 million in state and federal funds yearly.
Without Healthy Kids, this funding would likely be redirected to other communities.

Healthy Kids has survived on a patchwork of local funding support, including from private
foundations. Unfortunately, the funding that has sustained the current Healthy Kids program for
a decade is unraveling. This year, nearly half the funding for the Healthy Kids program has been
eliminated. As a result, if this measure does not pass, thousands of kids could lose their health
insurance due to lack of funding for this highly successful program.

While national health care reform is expected to dramatically increase access to health insurance
coverage for adults, the legislation does not include any expansion of eligibility of public
programs for children in California. Therefore, even after full implementation of national health
care reform, there will still be a need to maintain the Healthy Kids program. Without Healthy

Kids, families of low-income children currently eligible for Healthy Kids will likely be
uninsured.

The money from the special tax would be used to sustain the Healthy Kids program and continue
to provide health insurance coverage for low- to moderate-income children.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS
The provisions in this section are specifically included in this measure in order that the voters
and the taxpayers in the County may be assured that their money will be spent wisely. As
required by the laws of the State of California, the proceeds of the special tax will be deposited
into a special account established by the County and will be applied only to the specific purposes
set forth below. The County will keep on file with the County Executive's Office annual reports
stating the amount of funds collected and spent, and status of any project authorized to be
funded. The first report shall be filed by the County's Director of Finance no later than January 1,
2012, and reports shall be filed at least once a year thereafter. A Citizens Oversight Committee
shall be established to review the annual report each year to ensure that the proceeds are being
spent in compliance with this measure. Additionally, the funds collected and spent shall be
subject to an audit.

AMOUNT AND BASIS OF TAX
The proposed special tax shall be in a fixed amount of $29 per parcel for 10 consecutive years
assessed against each parcel of land within the boundaries of the County, beginning January 1,
2011. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the County that receives a tax bill from the
Santa Clara County Tax Collector.

PURPOSE OF PARCEL TAX
Revenue from the special tax will be used to partially fund health insurance premiums paid by
the families of qualified children. The premiums will be used to provide medical, dental and
vision health care through the Children's Health Initiative to children up to, and including, the
age of nineteen who otherwise do not have health insurance coverage or qualify for a public
program and whose families earn no more than 300 percent of the federal poverty level. Up to 3
percent of the funds collected from the parcel tax can be used for outreach in order to help enroll
children from qualified families. No funds from the special tax shall fund administrator salaries.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent
value, and the Board of Supervisors and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof
regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should
any part of the measure or taxing formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain
in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law. <fullend>