Measure O: Utility Users Tax, City of Albany

Shall Ordinance No. 2010-03 as set forth in the Voter's Pamphlet be adopted to: Reduce the Communications portion of the Utility Users' Tax from 7% to 6.5%; include video in the definition of Communications; modernize the application, calculation, and collection of the Utility Users' Tax to reflect technological advances and changes in state and federal law; exempt self-generated energy, and prohibit any tax-rate increase without voter approval?

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
Ballot Measure O proposes the adoption of an ordinance by adding a new Section 4-11 that updates Albany's current Telephone, Gas, and Electricity Users Tax (Albany Municipal Code Section 4-4 et seq. (sometimes referred to as UUT ordinance) to reflect changes in technology and changes in state and federal laws. The City's UUT ordinance was first enacted in 1971.
The Measure proposes to reduce the telephone communications tax from 7% to 6.5%, and would modernize the definitions to include all types of communications and video services, regardless of the technology used. The gas and electrical tax rate of 7% would remain unchanged.
The Measure also proposes to exempt users with solar energy systems from taxes based upon use generated by those systems.
Passage of the Measure would remove outdated references to federal law from the City's Code, which are now the subject of litigation in other public agencies. The Measure would replace older terms and definitions with modern language that are technology-neutral, and would treat all telephone customers in a uniform manner for local tax purposes, whether they use traditional "land-line" service, cellular/wireless service, or services such as Voice-over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and text messaging.
If this Measure is adopted, most service users would see no change or a reduction in their monthly bills. Those using traditional telephone services would see a rate reduction from 7% to 6.5%. For some wireless customers, there may be a small increase for text messaging, and for some businesses using private communication services (e.g., T-1 line), there would be an increase. E-mail would not be taxed. Digital downloads, including music, games, ringtones, and similar digital products, would not be taxed.
A `Yes' vote by a majority of voters voting would approve Measure O.
A`No' vote by a majority of the voters voting would reject Measure O and leave in place the City's existing ordinance, including outdated references to federal law that could result in litigation and possible loss of existing UUT revenue to the City.
s/ROBERT ZWEBEN, City Attorney

Arguments For Measure O
Pro Argument for Measure O, the Utility Users Tax The Albany City Council asks voters to protect existing local revenues by adding a new section to Albany's current Telephone, Gas, and Electricity Users Tax. The section will reflect changes in communications technology and changes in state and federal law.
Passage of the measure would reduce the telephone communications tax from 7 percent to 6.5 percent. The gas and electrical tax rate of 7 percent would stay the same. Most service users would see no change or a decrease in their monthly bills. Users of solar energy systems would not have to pay taxes based upon energy use generated by the systems.
The existing ordinance would continue in effect whether or not the measure passes. The problem is that without passage outdated references to federal law would remain and could result in lawsuits and possible loss of the current utility users tax revenue to the city.
Please help us protect Albany's local revenue by voting yes on Measure O.
s/Farid Javandel
Vice Mayor
s/Jewel Okawachi
Former Mayor
s/Raymond H. Anderson
Traffic and Safety
s/Kim Denton
City Treasurer
s/Peggy Thomsen
Council Member


Full Text of Measure O