VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF SANTA ROSA
MEASURE P

THE CITY OF SANTA ROSA VITAL CITY SERVICES

P MEASURE. To help maintain essential City services
including police and fire protection; violent and gang-crime
prevention; pedestrian safety; property and nuisance-
related crime prevention; street paving and pothole repair; park
safety; and recreation and youth programs, shall the City of Santa
Rosa enact a one-quarter cent sales tax for eight years, with all
revenue staying in the City and subject to annual, independent
audits and public expenditure reports?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

Measure P, if approved by a majority vote of the City's voters would enact a one
quarter of one percent (0.25%) increase to the “Transaction and Use Tax” (com-
monly referred to as "sales tax") on each dollar of taxable sales of goods within the
City of Santa Rosa and on storage, use or consumption in the City of Santa Rosa of
goods purchased from a retailer collected at the same time and in the same man-
ner as other sales tax.

The tax is considered a general tax under state law. As a result, if approved, the
revenues from the tax would be placed in the City's general fund and may be used
for general City operations and programs such as police and fire services, street
maintenance, park and recreational programs including gang prevention and any
other governmental functions and services.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

The City of Santa Rosa faces its most serious fiscal crisis due to the severe reces-
sion that has devastated our state and national economies. Since 2007/08, the
City's general fund budget has been slashed by $21.9 million, or 16.8%. 174 posi-
tions, or 20% of the City's employees, have been eliminated, including 14 police of-
ficer and 9 firefighter positions. Park maintenance staff has been reduced 70% and
street maintenance staff by 25%.

The reduction in city services has been dramatic. One fire station is closed each day.
One third of the City’s streetlights have been turned off. Our parks are turning brown,
and potholes go unfilled. Gang prevention has been reduced, recreation programs
decreased, homeless services cut back. But unfortunately, the worst is yet to come.

City budget woes are expected to worsen by millions more, and Sacramento is
poised to take even more money from local governments. The grim reality is that
more cuts will be made to the most basic of City services—including brownouts of
up to 3 more fire stations and the elimination of up to 18 more police officers. Some
parks will be closed, and park user fees will be implemented. On the chopping
block may be the Ridgway and Finley Swim Centers, the Senior Center and our
Homeless Center.

By voting for a temporary 1 /4 cent sales tax, the City of Santa Rosa can help to pre-
vent these draconian cuts and restore badly needed services. For an additional tax
of just 25 cents on every $100 we spend in Santa Rosa for the next eight years,
Measure P will save our City’s most vital services. The funds will only be used for
the most important general fund services, and the politicians in Sacramento can’t
take it away. Please vote Yes on Measure P.

The tax would continue for a period of eight (8) years from the date of commence-
ment. Any extension to the duration of the proposed tax beyond eight (8) years
would require action by the City Council and a new vote of the public.

Expenditure of thefunds would be subject to an annual independent financial audit.

si Jane Bender
Former Mayor/Councilmember

si Patricia Amedeo
Oakmont Senior Neighborhood Advocate

si Susan Gorin
Mayor, City of Santa Rosa

si Michael D. Senneff
Attorney, Community Leader

A “yes" vote on Measure P would increase the sales tax rate in the City of Santa
Rosa from the current nine and one quarter percent (9.25%) to nine and one-half
percent (9.50%).

si Jennifer Schwinn
Elementary Principal & Family Advocate

The proposed tax is authorized by California Revenue and Taxation Code Section
7285.9 subject to approval by two-thirds of the City Council and a Majority of the
voters voting in an election on the tax. On July 27,2010 the Council of the City of
Santa Rosa unanimously approved the proposed measure. A full copy of the text of
the ordinance is printed in these ballot materials.

si Caroline L, Fowler
City Attorney

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Santa Rosa's supporters of Measure P just don't get it. This falls election is all
about the economy. It is about the rising pension costs that is a major factor in lay-
offs, service cuts, tax and fee increases. Unless this problem is addressed, the City
will be seeking additional taxes to pay for employee benefits.

The proponents of this tax increase are using scare tactics to convince you to vote
for more taxes and more government spending. They use phrases such as "the
worst is yet to come", “the grim reality is that more cuts will be made to most basic
City services’.

All of us have been affected by this recession, but we don't go to our bosses and
say we demand more money. We are fortunate to have our jobs. The taxpayers
have tighten their belts and government should do the same.

The City is saying this a temporary tax. When was the last time government really
instituted a temporary tax?

The City has turned away retail development that would have brought much
needed jobs and sales tax revenue to help with the City's deficit. Instead, they want
the taxpayer to bail them out once again.

The City indicates the increased sales tax money will be used primarily for public
safety, but not long ago the voters approved Measure O a sales tax increase to
fund pubic safety.

When is enough, enough. Vote no on Measure P and force the City to live within its
means.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION
sl Jack Atkin, President	si	Fred	Levin,	Executive	Director

49-537

9565

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P  Until Santa Rosa resolves the looming issue of retiree pension costs they have not earned the right to ask taxpayers for an increase in sales tax rate. The City has made cuts in the budget to respond to the pressures that have resulted from our current economic recession. We applaud them for doing that without asking the tax payers for more money at a time when most taxpayers are also suffering from fi- nancial pressures.  Ideally we would hope that the City would find a way to live within its present budget without pulling more from taxpayers' pockets to fill City coffers. In any event, before asking for a tax increase the City must seriously address and make substantial progress toward resolving the biggest problem on the agenda, the exploding cost of funding excessive promises to retired employees. Failure to address this as the highest priority is equivalent to nibbling around the edges of the problem, but never getting to the real issue.  Taxpayers must force the City to address the major problem of inflated pension costs by keeping the pressure on. The greatest fear is that if a tax increase passes, the City will continue to push the pension cost issue off into the future, only making it worse.  To be sure there are many reasons to oppose the current sales tax increase. In- cluding the fact in 2004 voters passed Measure 0, a sales tax increase that was supposed to solve their public safety problems. Now the City is asking for another quarter cent primarily for public safety.  The City simply has not made the case for increasing the sales tax. We recom- mend you vote no on Measure P.  SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION  sl Jack Atkin, President si Fred Levin, Executive Director  REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P  Contrary to the opponents’ argument, the City Council is seriously and aggres- sively addressing the costs of employee compensation and benefits.  The City has already realized more than $1,401,000 in savings from employee concessions during fiscal years 2009 and 2010. As part of the current fiscal year, additional employee concessions of approximately $2,512,000 are being negoti- ated with the various labor groups and management. These concessions will result in a three-year savings to the City of more than $3,913,000, of which $2,771,000 applies to the General Fund.  In addition, the City Council is actively pursuing reduced retirement pension bene- fits by providing new non-public safety employees a lower pension benefit (estab- lishing a "two-tier system”). State law forbids the reduction of retirement benefits for its current employees and retirees.  Once fully implemented, the two-tier system will reduce the City's future non-public safety employee pension costs, but the savings will not be fully realized for several years a prime reason why a short-term sales tax is necessary.  Without additional revenue for a limited time, additional budget reductions will have to be initiated. The next round of budget cuts will reduce and/or eliminate vital basic services provided by the City of Santa Rosa.  The question is: “ Is it important to you to maintain core services? If so, is it worth 25 cents on every $100 you spend until the economy improves and pension reduction plans take effect?” We believe it is.  Vote Yes on Measure P.  sl Steve Rabinowitsh sl William H. Knight Former Councilmember Former Mayor & Councilmember  sl Tracy L. Weitzenberg sl Janet Condron Parent/Youth Advocate Former Mayor & Councilmember  sl Donna Burch Aquatic Advisory Committee	FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P  ORDINANCE NO. 3945  ORDINANCE OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SANTA ROSA IMPOSING A GENERAL TRANSACTION AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION  THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SANTA ROSA DO ENACT AS FOLLOWS:  Section 1. The Council of the Citv of Santa Rosa in adoptinq this ordinance and placing the general tax levied herein before the voters of the City, finds, deter- mines, and states as follows:  1.	The City seeks to continue to provide excellent service to the residents of Santa Rosa;  2.	To address current budget shortfalls, the City has made significant budget cuts and continues to explore other possible reductions;  3.	The costs for repairs, upgrades and maintenance continue to exceed available resources;  4.	Our community continues to suffer from crime. Santa Rosa needs additional funding to maintain our police force and to support programs to keep our neighborhoods, schools and parks safe;  5.	Due to a lack of funds, the City has not been able to maintain local streets and roads at the necessary level and over 270 miles of local streets and roads require repairs and safety improvements;  6.	Santa Rosa currently has 500 acres of city parks that require repairs and renovations and 95 percent of the City’s current and planned recreation and parks projects are unfunded;  7.	Santa Rosa's population has and will grow. The City must develop sustainable revenue sources in order to provide essential City services such as police, fire, parks, recreation, and senior and youth services;  8.	The State of California faces a 20 billion dollar budget deficit, which has and will result in state funding cuts to our city;  9.	Without additional money, our City will not be able to offer the kind of services we need, deserve and count on, including local public safety services like graffiti removal and proactive investigation of other nuisance crimes, or mainte- nance of recreation programs and facilities for seniors and youth;  10.	The City of Santa Rosa needs a protected and reliable local revenue source to help maintain essential local City services;  11.	The general tax set forth in this ordinance and in its ballot measure is subject to the City’s existing fiscal accountability measures such as the charter- re- quired independent audit, review of City budget in a series of public hearings, and year-end public expenditure reports on City expenditures; and  12.	The Council has evaluated Santa Rosa's needs with input from the  public.  Section 2. Chapter 3-27 entitled “2010 Transaction and Use Tax” is added to Title 3 of the Santa Rosa City Code to read as follows:  “Section 3-27.010. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Citv of Santa Rosa 2010 Transaction and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Santa Rosa herein- after shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.  Section 3-27.015. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first dav of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the effective date of this ordinance, the effective date being as set forth in section 32-27.120.  Section 3-27.020. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the follow- ing, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:  CONT. NEXT PAGE

9565

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P, CONT.

A.	To impose a general retail transaction and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes
the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the elec-
tors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a general retail transaction and use tax ordinance that incorpo-
rates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a general retail transaction and use tax ordinance that imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the
State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to,
and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and adminis-
trative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a general retail transaction and use tax ordinance that can be ad-
ministered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, mini-
mize the cost of collecting the sales and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize
the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions
of this ordinance.

Section 3-27.030. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the
City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions inci-
dent to the administration and operation of this sales and use tax ordinance; pro-
vided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execu-
tion of such a contract.

Section 3-27.040. TRANSACTION TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tan-
gible personal property at retail, a general tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers
in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one quarter of one percent
(0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordi-
nance.

Section 3-27.050. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all re-
tail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangi-
ble personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be pre-
scribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3-27.050. USE TAX RATE. A general excise tax is hereby imposed on
the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property pur-
chased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for stor-
age, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regard-
less of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 3-27.050. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all
of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3-27.060. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitu-
tion shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Trea-
sury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other con-
sumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State" in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of
that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3-27.070. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an ad-
ditional transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 3-27.080. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the sales tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered sales or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of sales tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such air-
craft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point out-
side the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division
3,5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-539

9565

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P, CONT.

buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pur-
suant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
sales tax under any state-administered sales and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compen-
sation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemp-
tion is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3. If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance,

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance,

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, stor-
age, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into
the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including,
but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the re-
tailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who regis-
ters or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against

that tax any sales tax or reimbursement for sales tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a sales tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage,
use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3-27.090. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effec-
tive date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 3-27.100. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or
writ, of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax re-
quired to be collected.

Section 3-27.110. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the ap-
plication thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.

Section 3-27.120. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance, following its adoption by
at least 5 affirmative votes of the Council, and its publication in accordance with the
Government Code, shall become effective upon the approval of the tax imposed
hereunder by more than 50 percent of the voters of the City voting thereon at an
election called for that purpose. The “Operative Date” of the tax imposed hereun-
der shall be as provided in section 3-27.015.

Section 3-27.130. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed
by this ordinance shall extend only through March 31, 2019, or, if the Operative
Date is later than April 1,2011, at the end of 8 years from the Operative Date, as
provided in section 3-27.015."

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Council of the City of Santa Rosa, State of
California, on August 3,2010, by the following vote:

AYES:	(6) Mayor Gorin, Councilmembers Bender, Sawyer, Jacobi, VasDupre

and Olivares

NOES:	(0)

ABSENT: (1) Vice Mayor Wysocky
ABSTAIN: (0)

ATTEST: s/Sandi Bliss	APPROVED:	s/Susan Gorin

Deputy City Clerk	Mayor

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

si Caroline L. Fowler
City Attorney

9565