EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

INTRODUCTION

To maintain and improve academic programs including reading, writing, science
and math; improve student access to computers labs and technology, help keep
school libraries open and minimize future classroom overcrowding; shall Hollister
School District levy $96 per parcel annually for four years (see voter pamphlet)
with senior exemptions, no money for administrators’ salaries, independent
community oversight, and all funds used for neighborhood schools and not taken
by the State?

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain exceptional
public education in our schools, the Hollister School District proposes to levy and collect a
qualified special parcel tax as described below (see “SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES”
below), and to implement accountability measures in connection with the special parcel tax to
provide oversight and accountability to ensure that funds are used to:

•	Preserve excellence in core academic programs such as reading, writing,
science and math;

•	Minimize class size increases in all grades and layoffs for dozens of highly
qualified teachers and school employees;

•	Continue teacher professional development by providing training programs
and activities that support high quality teaching;

•	Update computers and technology throughout schools and facilities;

•	Provide for staffing and operations of computer labs and libraries;

•	Help protect arts, after-school sports and music instruction, course offerings
and electives that provide a well-rounded education, challenge students,
allow students to be highly competitive for high school and provide
instructional support for those struggling with the basics;

•	Reduce the impact of deep budget cuts by providing a stable local funding
source that cannot be taken away by the State or other school districts; and

•	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District
accountability by providing for oversight and independent financial audits of
revenues and expenditures.

The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes listed above,
unless the Board of Trustees determines in any given year that changes in student population,

A-1

fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or
inadvisable. In any event, the Board of Trustees will not fund any program or reduction other
than those listed above from the proceeds of the special parcel taxes.

SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Special Tax Generally. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the special tax of
$96 per parcel shall be levied and collected for a period of four (4) years, commencing July 1,
2011, and be collected by the San Benito County Tax Collector at the same time as and along
with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said
tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a
separate tax bill from the San Benito County Tax Collector. With respect to any parcel that is
classified by the San Benito County Assessor as multi-family residential containing two (2) to
four (4) units shall constitute two (2) parcels, and those containing five (5) or more units shall
constitute five (5) parcels, for the purposes of levying and collecting the special tax against such
parcels, to the extent permitted by law.

Exemptions. (1) All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will
also be exempt from the qualified special tax. (2) In addition, in order to provide tax relief to
senior citizens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied as a principal residence by a
person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt from the levy of the special tax upon proper
application to the District. The exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures to be
prescribed by the District or otherwise as required by law or by the San Benito County Tax
Collector.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the levy and
collection of the special tax and exemptions, and any additional procedures established by the
Board of Trustees, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption,
refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is to
be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination
with the County as necessary. The District’s Board of Trustees shall adopt such additional or
supplemental procedures as it deems necessary or convenient for the administration of the
qualified special tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Legally Required Accountability Measures. In accordance with the requirements of
California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability
measures, among others, shall apply to the special parcel taxes levied in accordance with this
Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special parcel tax shall be only those purposes
identified above; (b) the proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific
purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the special parcel taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall
be made by the District's chief fiscal officer to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i)
the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the
status of any projects, programs, or purposes required or authorized to be funded from the
proceeds of the special taxes, as identified above.

A-2



t

Additional Accountability Measures. In addition to the accountability measures
required by State law, an independent Community Oversight Committee shall be appointed by
the Board of Trustees to provide fiscal oversight in order to ensure that said funds are spent for
the purposes approved by the voters and to communicate with the public regarding the
expenditure of said funds. The Community Oversight Committee will review the expenditures of
these funds by the District and will report on an annual basis to the Board and to the community
on how these funds have been spent.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of
the District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the
adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special parcel taxes will be reduced annually
as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by
the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent
allowed by law.

A-3