
MEASURE B

In order to reduce the impact of State budget cuts and provide financial
stability for the Esparto Unified School District, shall the District be
authorized to levy a parcel tax of $100 per parcel for five years,
adjusted for inflation, for purposes of supporting student transportation,
athletics, and core and elective academic programs? Parcel tax funds
will not be spent on administrator salaries and will be audited annually
by independent CPA’s as required by law.



FULL BALLOT TEXT

EXHIBIT “B”

The full text of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

In order to reduce the impact of State budget cuts and provide financial stability
for the Esparto Unified School District, shall the District be authorized to levy a
parcel tax of $100 per parcel for five years, adjusted for inflation, for purposes of
supporting student transportation, athletics, and core and elective academic
programs? Parcel tax funds will not be spent on administrator salaries and will be
audited annually by independent CPA’s as required by law.

Basis of Tax.

The tax shall be levied on all Parcels of Taxable Real Property in the District, as defined
below, on the following basis:

Type of Parcel	Rate of Annual Tax

Ail Parcels	Not	to	exceed	$	100 per parcel

To account for the impact of inflation on the cost of delivering the classroom programs
and student services supported by the education parcel tax, the rates as set forth above shall be
adjusted annually, commencing as of the 2012-13 tax year, for inflation by the change in the
"Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers California (1982-84=100)" published by the
U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. In the event this index is no longer
published, the Board of Education shall adopt a comparable index of general price levels as it
shall reasonably determine. The Board of Education shall cause the tax to be levied at the
adjusted amount, or at such lesser amount in any year in which the Board deems such reduced
amount sufficient and appropriate to meet the District's budgetary needs, or believes such
reduced amount is appropriate in reaction to Stale budget changes.

“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” is defined as any unit of real property fully or partially
located within the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
Yolo County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office, as applicable depending on parcel location. All
property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property taxes are levied in
any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in such year.

If more than one adjacent Assessor parcel constitutes a single parcel under the
Subdivision Map Act (California Government Code section 66410 et seg), then the parcel will
be treated as a single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes of the amount of tax due, and
a claim for refund may be made by the property owner pursuant to the claim procedures outline
below.

Page 1.

08/07/2014	16:31

15306668123

YOLO ELECTIONS

PAGE 11/14

An exemption may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons aged 65
years or older who occupies the parcel as a principal residence, upon application for exemption.
Applications for such exemptions must be made and delivered to the District Office during the
period from May 15 through July 31, 2011, and May 15 through June 30 for each subsequent
year (or the next regular business day thereafter) for parcel tax levies in accordance with the
process established by the Esparto Unified School District Board of Education, or its designee.

Claim Procedures

With respect to all general property tax issues and billing matters within its jurisdiction,
the Yolo County Tax Assessor, as applicable, or other appropriate County tax official shall make
all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final
and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including
determination of Senior Citizen exemption, however, the decisions of the District shall be final
and binding. In the latter case, a claim for a refund of the special tax shall comply with the
following and any additional procedures as established by the Board;

(a)	All claims shall be filed with the Superintendent of the District no later than one year
after the date the tax was paid. The claimant shall file the claim within this time period and the
claim shall be finally acted upon the Board as a prerequisite to bringing suit thereon.

(b)	Pursuant to Government Code section 935 (b) the claim shall be subject to the
provisions of Government Code sections 945.6 and 946.

(c)	The Board“shall act on a timely claim within the time period required'by Government
Cade section 912.4,

(d)	The procedure described herein, and any additional procedures established by the
Board, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking a refund, reduction, or re-
computation of foe special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by tbe District or
by the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as necessary.

Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations
limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this
special tax.

Accountability Measures

The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes identified
above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into a fund, which shall be kept
separate and apart from other funds of tbe District, No later than January 1 of each year while
the tax Is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing the amount
offends collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be funded by this
measure.

Page 2

08/07/2014	16:31

15306668123

YOLO ELECTIONS

PAGE 12/14

In addition, an independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the Board
of Education to ensure that the special tax proceeds collected pursuant to this measure are spent
for their authorized purposes, and to report annually to the Board of Trustees and the public
regarding the expenditure of such funds.

Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every
section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part of the measure or taxing formula be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing
formula hereof shall remain in Ml force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the
District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the
adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special taxes will be reduced annually as
necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.

Page 3