TAMALPAIS UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE B

MEASURE B: To maintain quali-	YES
ty public high school education	
including small class sizes and	NO
exceptional instructional programs in	

Belvedere, Bolinas, Corte Madera, Fairfax, Greenbrae,
Kentfield, Larkspur, Marin City, Mill Valley, Nicasio,
Ross, San Anselmo, San Geronimo, Sausalito, Stinson
Beach, and Tiburon, shall Tamalpais Union High
School District be authorized to renew a parcel tax for
ten years commencing July 1, 2012, at the current rate
plus an annual 3% increase ($245.94 - tax year 2012-
2013), with an exemption for parcels owned and occu-
pied by persons 65 and older?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE B

TAMALPAIS UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX RENEWAL TO MAINTAIN
QUALITY PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL EDUCATION
AND SERVICES

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
Tamalpais Union High School District will be authorized
to levy a special tax for a period of ten years beginning on
July 1, 2012. The Measure states that the amount of the
special tax shall begin at the level of the existing parcel
tax, plus an annual three percent (3%) increase, which the
Measure states will equal $245.94 for tax year 2012-2013.

An exemption is created for owners aged Sixty-Five
(65) years or older who own and occupy the parcel.

s/PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

TAMALPAIS UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
COUNTY OF MARIN, STATE OF CALIFORNIA
RESOLUTION #20
Specifications of the election order
RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
OF THE TAMALPAIS UNION
HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has
failed to provide adequate funding to the Tamalpais Union
High School District, and as a result of this lack of finan-
cial support for the schools (Redwood, Tamalpais, Sir
Francis Drake, San Andreas, and Tamiscal) the District has
been and will be forced to reduce or eliminate important
programs; and

WHEREAS, in 2004, the voters of the District autho-
rized a parcel tax which expires on June 30, 2012 at
$238.78 per parcel; and

WHEREAS, without a renewed authorization by the
voters for the parcel tax, an immediate and substantial
reduction and elimination of educational programs and
services will be necessary which will have a severe nega-
tive impact on the students of the District; and

WHEREAS, the voters in the District have consistent-
ly supported the District’s quality education program with
approval of parcel taxes for school operations and bonds
for school modernization; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of
efforts to generate funds for the educational program,
including lobbying in the State Legislature, supporting
local fundraising efforts, and seeking grants from founda-
tions and governmental agencies, and has initiated eco-
nomic and operational efficiencies for beneficial and nec-
essary resource maintenance; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and well-developed high
school public education program delivers many long-last-
ing benefits and advantages to all the residents of our com-
munity; and a high quality community-directed school
system favorably impacts property values which is vital to
the overall well-being of the entire community; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the Califor-
nia Constitution and Government Code Sections 50075,
50077, 50079, and 53720 et seq. authorizes a school dis-
trict to levy a parcel tax to raise funds for the purpose of
conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds of
the votes cast by voters voting upon such a special tax pro-
posal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the

Board of Trustees of the Tamalpais Union High School
District conducts a special election on November 8, 2011,
to be consolidated with the regularly scheduled uniform
district election on that date, to submit to the qualified vot-
ers of the Tamalpais Union High School District a measure
to authorize a parcel tax for the purpose of continuing vital
programs critical to the education of the District’s stu-
dents; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Tamalpais
Union High School District Board of Trustees as follows:
Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held with-
in the boundaries of the Tamalpais Union High School
District, to submit to the qualified voters, the following
measure, to wit:

“MEASURE”

To maintain quality public high school education
including small class sizes and exceptional instruc-
tional programs in Belvedere, Bolinas, Corte Madera,
Fairfax, Greenbrae, Kentfield, Larkspur, Marin City,
Mill Valley, Nicasio, Ross, San Anselmo, San Geroni-
mo, Sausalito, Stinson Beach, and Tiburon, shall Tam-
alpais Union High School District be authorized to
renew a parcel tax for ten years commencing July 1,
2012, at the current rate plus an annual 3% increase
($245.94 - tax year 2012-2013), with an exemption for
parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 and older?

The parcel tax shall maintain the following programs
and services:

*Small class sizes

^Comprehensive academic programs, including

-English, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies,
Foreign Language, Visual and Performing Arts,
Applied Technologies/Computer Science, and
Physical Education

-Advanced Placement and/or honors opportunities
in core and elective subject areas
-Seven period academic schedules available for
all students

-Graduation requirements and standards which
exceed those of the state

-Academic counseling and student support ser-
vices, including college and school-to-work/
career programs

-Alternative school programs for at-risk students
^Commitment to attract and retain highly qualified and
experienced staff

* Acquisition of equipment and supplies supporting the
instructional program

-Science and computer lab equipment
-Textbooks and classroom supplies, materials, and
equipment

-Library books and other reference media
-Physical education and athletic equipment
The parcel tax for each assessor’s parcel will be re -
newed at the current amount of $238.78 per year (tax
year 2011-2012) plus a 3% annual adjustment for a
total of $245.94 commencing July 1, 2012. An exemp-
tion for the assessment will be made available to each
individual in the District who will attain the age of 65
years prior to May 1 of the assessment year, who owns
a beneficial interest in the parcel, who uses this parcel
as his or her principal place of residence, and who ap-
plies to the District on or before May 1, 2012 or May 1
of any succeeding assessment year. Any one application
from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption

for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment
so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as
his or her principal residence. Senior exemptions
granted during the term of the current parcel tax will
continue in effect during the term of the renewal.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each
individual ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as fol-
lows:

TAMALPAIS UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX RENEWAL TO MAINTAIN
QUALITY PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL EDUCATION
AND SERVICES
MEASURE B
To maintain quality public high school education
including small class sizes and exceptional instruction-
al programs in Belvedere, Bolinas, Corte Madera, Fair-
fax, Greenbrae, Kentfield, Larkspur, Marin City, Mill
Valley, Nicasio, Ross, San Anselmo, San Geronimo,
Sausalito, Stinson Beach, and Tiburon, shall Tamalpais
Union High School District be authorized to renew a
parcel tax for ten years commencing July 1, 2012, at
the current rate plus an annual 3% increase ($245.94 -
tax year 2012-2013), with an exemption for parcels
owned and occupied by persons 65 and older?

YES	NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 2012, the parcel tax
collected annually on all assessor’s parcels at the rate
specified above, shall be collected and administered in the
same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and
collected under provisions of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin
County is hereby requested to call an election of said par-
cel tax to be held on and consolidated with the uniform
district election on November 8, 2011. The County Clerk
is hereby requested and authorized to: 1) set forth on all
sample ballots relating to said election to be mailed to the
qualified electors of the Tamalpais Union High School
District said measure; 2) to provide absentee voter ballots
for said parcel tax election for use by qualified electors of
the Tamalpais Union High School District who are entitled
thereto in the manner provided by law; and 3) to consoli-
date this election with the regular election on November 8,

2011.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase, or clause
of this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining por-
tion of this resolution. This governing board declares that
it would have adopted this resolution and each section,
subsections, phrase, or clause thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
phrases, or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. The secretary of the Tamalpais Union High
School District governing board is hereby authorized and
directed to certify to the due adoption of this resolution
and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Superin-
tendent of Schools of Marin County and to file a copy
hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Marin County.

The foregoing resolution was moved by Susan
Schmidt, and adopted on roll call on May 10, 2011, by the
following vote:

Board Member: Susan Schmidt
Board Member: Bob Walter
Board Member: John Wright
Board Member: Monica Bonny
Board Member: Cindy McCauley
AYES:	5

NOES:	0

ABSENT:	0

WHEREUPON, the President declaring the foregoing
resolution duly adopted and

SO ORDERED

s/cindy j. McCauley

President, Governing Board

TAMB-3

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Maintain Excellence - A Sensible Investment in
Local High School Education

The citizens of the Tamalpais Union High School District
recognize the importance of outstanding local high
schools - they are assets that distinguish our cities and
towns and help maintain property values. Strong support
from community members and parents has helped place
Drake, Redwood, Tam, San Andreas, and Tamiscal among
the best high schools in California for outstanding acade-
mic achievement.

Now our quality instructional programs are in danger. Due
to the declining economy, the district has already reduced
its budget by $4.5 million over the past three years, slash-
ing administrative costs by 33%. Stable local funding
helps maintain high student achievement and offsets some
of these state cuts. Failure to renew this funding would
require the reduction or elimination of crucial programs
and student services. Therefore, we must protect our com-
munities’ high schools by voting YES on Measure B.
Measure B is a continuation of the existing parcel tax that
the voters have overwhelmingly supported since 1989.
This local tax, deductible from state and federal income
taxes, amounts to $238.78 per parcel annually or $19.90
per month. It maintains the current inflation factor of 3%
and extends the term to 10 years. Property owners 65 and
older may apply for an exemption.

Measure B will:

•	Maintain class sizes and a seven period day

•	Support a full spectrum of courses including elec-
tives, advanced placement, and programs for at risk
students

•	Attract and retain accomplished, experienced educa-
tors

•	Continue critical counseling services, athletics, and
student activity programs

Belvedere, Bolinas, Corte Madera, Fairfax, Greenbrae,
Kentlield, Lagunitas, Larkspur, Marin City, Mill Valley,
Muir Beach, Nicasio, Ross, San Anselmo, Sausalito, Stin-
son Beach, Tiburon, and Woodacre have a proud tradition
of supporting our exemplary high schools. Please join us
on November 8th in reaffirming that commitment. Vote
YES on Measure B, a sensible investment in local high
school education.
s/HAL BROWN
Marin County Board of Supervisors, 2nd District
s/ALICE FREDERICKS
Tiburon Town Council Member,

Co-Chair, Community United
s/DAVID M. GILMOUR
Owner, Paradise Foods
s/KATHRIN SEARS
Marin County Board of Supervisors, 3rd District
s/KENNETH WACHTEL
Mayor, City of Mill Valley

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE B

We must recognize that taxpayers will carry the cost of
unsustainable pensions for years to come. The California
State Teachers’ Retirement System has a $56 Billion fund-
ing shortfall. We cannot continue to enable pension bloat-
ing. We must reduce administrative costs, put teacher
administrators back in classrooms, and consolidate school
administrations so money goes directly to classrooms
where it belongs. Otherwise, we’ll continue to pay more
while students continue to get less.

2.2% (approximately 4,800) CalSTRS retirees receive pen-
sions exceeding $100,000/yr. Pensions are further in-
creased through spiking, where unused sick pay boosts
years of service in pension calculations. The Pacific Re-
search Institute estimated that pension spiking cost taxpay-
ers $100M annually. The District has failed to properly
address “spiking”.

During the greatest economic downturn since the Great
Depression, most taxpayers lack a future of even $40k pen-
sions; the average social security check is between $15k-
$25k. This climate is not one where taxpayers should be
asked for a new a parcel tax with a 3% annual increase,
while the District does nothing to control pension inflation.
The supposedly higher salaries from the private sector that
funded 40IK plans have been slashed like the 401Ks.
Marin voters must withhold support for this parcel tax and
require the District to seek pension reform and real cost
cutting. The $4.5M in “cuts” in administrative costs
claimed by the District came from the departure of the
extra administrative employees who dealt with recent
$200M taxpayer-funded building improvements. We need
a practical and well-conceived solution.
s/MARIN UNITED TAXPAYERS ASSN.

by Fielding Greaves
s/MARIN LIBERTARIAN PARTY
by Paul Kelley, Chair

TAMB-4

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

The Great Recession has hit residents hard; many home-
owners are under water, unemployed, with slashed 401Ks
and reduced paychecks. Renters struggle to cover their
rents.

In this economic climate, one would think the Tam Union
High School District would seek a lesser parcel tax. In-
stead, the district seeks renewal of the full amount - $248
per parcel - plus a 3% annual increase for ten years. We
encourage taxpayers to say “no” to this $248 tax. Let the
District come back to the ballot box next year with a more
Recession-sensitive tax.

We support our schools and teachers, but we must also
feed, cloth, and provide medical and dental care for our
children, and we must finance shelter for our families.
Unlike teachers, most of us do not have pensions or med-
ical subsidies for life, and cannot retire at 55 or 60.

In the last five years, we taxpayers have given up to $200
million in tax/bond money to the District. Marin taxpayers
will need close to $1 billion to repay the last bonds with
interest, costs, etc. included.

Marin residents have given much during the boom years;
we ask the District to meet us half way during these lean
years. Come back to next year’s ballot box with a more
reasonable tax dollar amount. The District should not bal-
ance its pension costs on the backs of property owners and
renters. Vote “no” on this 100% tax renewal that includes
annual increases for ten years.
s/PAUL KELLEY
Chairman, County Libertarian Party
s/FIELDING GREAVES
President, MUTA
s/LINDA PFEIFER
Sausalito City Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE B

Measure B is simply about maintaining quality education
at our local high schools. Our opponents may mean well,
but they are misinformed.

Here are the facts:

^Measure B is not a new tax. It is the continuation of the
current parcel tax, strongly supported by voters since
1989, and the existing 3% annual adjustment. This tax is
$238.78 per year, not $248, and amounts to $19.90 per
month to preserve outstanding academic programs.

*When the Tamalpais Union High School District’s in-
come dropped, it responded by spending less, exhibiting
stable and conservative financial management. The Dis-
trict has slashed $4.5 million from its budget, cut adminis-
trative staff by 33% and support staff by 9%. If Measure B
fails, an additional $8.8 million will be lost annually,
resulting in deep cuts to academic programs and services
for students.

*There are $266 million - not $1 billion - principal and in-
terest, left to pay on the high schools’ modernization
bonds. Through bond refinancing, the District has already
saved taxpayers $4.5 million. It anticipates an additional
$4 million in savings by October 2011.

^Pensions are not controlled by the school district; state
law regulates them. Pension costs have nothing to do with
the parcel tax and the District is obligated to pay them
with or without Measure B. In addition, teachers do not
receive lifetime health benefits.

Renewing the parcel tax is a prudent investment in our
community. Quality high schools draw families to our
neighborhoods and protect property values.

Learn more by visiting www.citizens4tamdistrict.org and
join us in voting YES ON MEASURE B.
s/DONALD GRAFF
Former Mayor, City of Larkspur
s/MIKE KELLY
Vice Mayor, City of Sausalito

s/cindy j. McCauley

President, Board of Trustees,

Tamalpais Union High School District
s/THOMAS McINERNEY
Vice Mayor, Town of San Anselmo
s/MARILEE ROGERS
President, Redwood Alumni Association

TAMB-5