TOWN OF CORTE MADERA MEASURE C	
MEASURE C: In order to contin- ■ ue existing emergency services in the Town of Corte Madera, shall there be a continuation of the special tax for paramedic and/or emergency medical four more years at the annual amount of $6 idence and per 1,000 square feet of floor j residential uses for fiscal year 2011-2012, maximum of $5.00 yearly, if needed, wit priations limit increasing by the amount o:	YES
	NO
	services for 0.00 per res- irea for non- increasing a li the appro- said tax?

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE C

If this measure is approved by the requisite two-thirds
vote, an ordinance shall be adopted in the Town of Corte
Madera imposing a special tax to pay for paramedic and/or
emergency medical services (EMS). This is not the first
time an EMS tax has been submitted to and approved by
the Town’s voters. A special EMS tax was first approved
by the Town’s voters on June 7, 1983, and was last
approved by the Town’s voters in November 2006. The tax
expired on June 30, 2011. Voter approval of this measure
is required in order to continue the provision of EMS ser-
vices at existing levels.

If approved, this measure will impose a yearly tax for
EMS services for the current and the next three fiscal
years. A “fiscal year” runs from July 1 of one year through
June 30 of the next year. For fiscal year 2011-2012, the tax
amount will be $60,000 for each residential unit. For non-
residential uses, the tax rate for fiscal year 2011-2012 will
be $60.00 per 1,000 square feet of enclosed floor area.
This is the same EMS tax rate that was in effect in fiscal
year ending June 30, 2011. The tax rate on residential and
nonresidential uses may increase $5.00 per year for each
of the remaining three years the tax is in effect as neces-
sary to meet annual expenditures of providing EMS ser-
vices. These annual increases are not automatic. They
must be approved by the City Council at a public meeting
on an annual basis.

The measure provides that the tax proceeds must be
separately accounted for and may only be used for the pro-
vision of EMS services. The measure also provides that
the EMS tax will be collected by the Marin County Tax
Collector along with and subject to the same rules applic-
able to the ad valorem property tax. The tax will automat-
ically terminate on June 30, 2015.

s/JEFFREY A. WALTER
Town Attorney

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO. 927
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF
CORTE MADERA IMPOSING A SPECIAL TAX
FOR PARAMEDIC AND/OR EMERGENCY
MEDICAL SERVICES

The people of the Town of Corte Madera do ordain as
follows:

Section 1: A new chapter 3.50 is hereby added to the
Town of Corte Madera Municipal Code to read as follows:
Chapter 3.50
CORTE MADFRA PARAMEDIC AND/OR

F.MFRGF.NCY MFD1CA1. SERVICES TAX

3.50.010	Authority, purpose and intent.

3.50.020	Definitions.

3.50.030	Tax imposed.

3.50.040 Use of tax proceeds, appropriations limit.

3.50.050	Method of collection.

3.50.060	Delinquency.

3.50.070	Amendment of chapter.

3.50.080	Severability.

3.50.090	Two-thirds voter approval, effective date.

3.50.100	Sunset provision.

3.50.110	Execution.

3.50.010	Authority, purpose and intent. It is the sole
purpose and intent of this chapter to impose a special tax
on residential and nonresidential property within the Town
of Corte Madera (Town) for paramedic and/or emergency
medical services.

3.50.020	Definitions. The definitions given in this sec-
tion shall govern the construction of this chapter.

(1)	Floor area. “Floor area” shall be defined as the total
enclosed area of all floors of a building measured to the
outside face of the walls.

(2)	Nonresidential Use. “Nonresidential use” shall be
defined as any building which is designed, intended, or
used for any purpose other than a residential use, includ-
ing, but not limited to, commercial, industrial and office
uses. A hotel, motel and all residential units contained
therein, as defined below, shall be treated as a nonresiden-
tial use.

(3)	Residential Unit. “Residential unit” shall be defined
as each building or portion thereof, containing one or more
rooms, a separate bathroom, and a single kitchen, as de-
fined in Section 18.04.400 of the Corte Madera Municipal
Code, designed for or occupied by one family or by one or
more individuals.

3.50.030	Tax imposed. A special tax for the purpose
outlined in Section 3.50.010 shall be imposed on nonresi-
dential uses and on residential units in the amount speci-
fied below for each of the fiscal years 2011-2012 to 2014-
2015.

(1) Nonresidential uses:

A. Sixty dollars ($60.00) per year for each 1,000 square
feet of floor area for fiscal year 2011-2012.

B. Beginning with fiscal year 2012-2013, the Town
Council may, based upon a budget recommended to it,
approve an annual increase to said amount not to exceed
Five dollars ($5.00) annually to a maximum of Seventy-
five dollars ($75.00) per year for each 1,000 square feet of
floor area for fiscal year 2014-2015.

(2) Residential Units:

A.	Sixty dollars ($60.00) per year for each residential
unit for fiscal year 2011-2012.

B.	Beginning with fiscal year 2012-2013, the Town
Council may, based upon a budget recommended to it,
approve an annual increase to said amount not to exceed
Five dollars ($5.00) annually to a maximum of Seventy-
five dollars ($75.00) per year for each residential unit for
fiscal year 2014-2015.

3.50.040 Use of tax proceeds, appropriations limit. The
proceeds of the special tax imposed by this chapter shall
be used solely for the purpose of providing paramedic and/
or emergency medical services. The appropriations limit
of the Town shall be increased by the proceeds received
from this special tax for each of the four years of this spe-
cial tax.

3.50.050	Method of collection. The special tax im-
posed by this chapter shall be due from every person who
owns real property within the Town on which is located a
residential unit(s) and/or a nonresidential use(s) and as
reflected upon the rolls of the Marin County Assessor at
the same time ad valorem tax is due. This special tax shall
be collected by the Marin County Tax Collector at the
same time, in the same manner, and subject to the same
terms and conditions, including penalties and interest, as
the ad valorem tax. The full amount due under this chap-
ter shall constitute a debt to the Town. An action for the
collection of any tax due hereunder may be commenced in
the name of the Town, or its assignee, in any court having
jurisdiction of the cause.

3.50.060	Delinquency. To any amount of the tax cre-
ated by this chapter which becomes delinquent, the Marin
County Tax Collector shall add a penalty in an amount
equal to any penalty owing for delinquencies in the ad
valorem property tax. The tax and penalty shall bear inter-
est at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem tax
until paid.

3.50.070	Amendment of chapter. The Town Council
is hereby authorized to amend this chapter by three (3)
affirmative votes of its members for the limited purposes
of carrying out the general purposes of this chapter, to con-
form the provisions of this chapter to applicable state law,
to permit the County Tax Collector to collect the special
tax levied by this chapter, or to reassign the duties of pub-
lic officials under this chapter. In no event, however, may
the Town Council increase the tax amount specified in
Section 3.50.30 or modify the purposes for which the tax
may be utilized as provided for in Section 3.50.040 with-
out the approval of two-thirds of the voters of the Town
voting on the question.

3.50.080	Severability. If any section, or part thereof,
of this chapter is held invalid or unenforceable by any
court and such judgment becomes final, then that section.

or part thereof, may be amended by this Council, by a
majority vote, to conform with the judgment of such court,
provided such amendment is consistent with the purpose
and intent of this chapter. If any section, subsection, sen-
tence, phrase or clause of this chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the valid-
ity of the remaining portion of this chapter. The People of
the Town of Corte Madera hereby declare that they would
have adopted this chapter and each section, subsection,
sentence, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
phrases, or clauses may be declared invalid.

3.50.090	Two-thirds approval, effective date. An elec-
tion to confirm and approve this Ordinance has been set
for November 8, 2011. This ordinance shall be effective
only if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting
upon this Ordinance and shall go into effect ten (10) days
after the vote is declared by the County Election
Department.

3.50.100	Sunset provision. This Ordinance shall ex-
pire and be of no further force or effect after midnight,
June 30, 2015.

3.50.110	Execution. The Town Mayor is hereby au -
thorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance by sign-
ing where indicated below.

I certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED,
APPROVED and ADOPTED by the people of the Town of
Corte Madera voting on the 8th day of November 2011.

s/ALEXANDRA COCK
Mayor

ATTEST:

s/CHRISTINE GREEN
Town Clerk

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

This is not a new tax. It is a continuation of a special tax
approved by an overwhelming majority of Corte Madera
voters starting in 1983. Subsequently, with these tax rev-
enues and based on the need for a closer ambulance, the
Corte Madera Fire Department began providing paramedic
services by hiring paramedic/hrehghters and responding
with an ambulance based at Station 13 on Paradise Drive.
There is also a first responder paramedic/firefighter located
at Station 14 on Tamalpais Drive. This arrangement gives
us one of the best paramedic services and shortest response
times in Marin.

The tax provides a significant portion of the revenue need-
ed to fund the existing paramedic ambulance services in
Town. Without the tax, the Advanced Life Support ser-
vices provided by the Corte Madera Fire Department para-
medics primarily for Corte Madera residents will be in
jeopardy.

Failure to pass this tax will result in loss of paramedic/fire-
fighters in our Corte Madera Fire Department. Emergency
paramedic ambulance service would need to be provided
by an ambulance miles away, with the strong possibility of
longer response times. Response time and rapid interven-
tion are critical to saving lives in cardiac events, traumat-
ic injuries, and other medical emergencies. A delay of
even seconds in care and/or transport can literally mean
the difference between life and death.

This tax would be at the same rate as the prior Paramedic
Tax of $60.00 per household. Any increases must be ap-
proved by the Corte Madera Town Council during a public
hearing. The maximum tax increase over the next 4 years
is $15.00, for a total of $75.00. This compares favorably to
paramedic taxes in Novato and San Rafael and will ensure
the continuation of our excellent paramedic services.
Please vote “YES” on this measure. The life you save may
be your own!
s/ALEXANDRA COCK
Mayor, Town of Corte Madera
s/BOB RAVASIO
Vice-Mayor, Town of Corte Madera
s/CARLA CONDON
Councilmember, Town of Corte Madera
s/DIANE FURST
Councilmember, Town of Corte Madera
s/ROBERT BUNDY, MD
Retired Emergency Physician

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE C

“The life you save may be your own”

One of the primary responsibilities of Corte Madera is to
provide for the public safety of its residents. This tax
measure is another example of the Town Council’s mis-
placed priorities. It should revise its budget and first pay
for paramedic services to save our lives before funding
non-essentials. Ask the residents to support a parcel tax to
pay for beautification projects as San Rafael voters agreed
to do. What’s more important for Corte Madera - peo-
ple or plants?

Corte Madera has consolidated its police department with
Larkspur, is combining some police services with San
Anselmo, and contracts for some of its landscaping needs,
including beautification. Two things have happened in
each case. Significant sums of money have been saved and
the service is equal to or better than before.

The Town Council should do more to save our money
while providing basic services rather than ask us for more
money, threatening to close the Paradise Drive Fire sta-
tion, lay off firefighters/paramedics and put lives at risk if
the Paramedic Parcel Tax, which was defeated last year,
is not reinstated.

Let’s defeat this measure again. Basic services shouldn’t
require parcel taxes. Corte Madera should find the
necessary $397,000, which is less than 2% of its 20+
million dollar budget.

Don’t be scared. Vote against Measure C.
s/CHARLES H. CONRAD
s/GEORGE R. TOPOR
s/STUART JACOBSON
s/SUSAN TOPOR

CMMC-3

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Corte Madera’s current $20+ million budget is intend-
ed to pay for basic services - Police, Fire, Paramedics and
Public Works, including beautification. We are now asked
to supplement that by reinstating a $60.00 per year Parcel
Tax for Paramedic services (with annual increases.) Corte
Madera should look at its priorities and get its house in
financial order before asking us for more money to pay
for previous financial mistakes? (Please see June 2011
Grand Jury report on Corte Madera’s finances.)

Is a Parcel Tax for Police, Fire, and Public Works next?
The proposed Parcel Tax would generate approximately
$400,000.00 annually. The Town presently provides the
same dollar amount (less than 2% of the annual budget).
Another $700,000.00 comes from insurance reimburse-
ments. Why won’t Corte Madera fund our basic emer-
gency services?

It has been stated that failure to pass the measure would
result in closing the Paradise Drive Fire Station, which
isn’t always staffed 24 hours a day, personnel layoffs and
a potential lower level of service. We are confident that the
other communities and private services would continue to
provide comparable service and mutual assistance.

Yes, budget cuts have occurred (though furlough days have
ended), but why not consider increased consolidation or
looking at contracting as a way to save money? Our com-
bined Police Department (with Larkspur) saves us $500K+
per year. Consolidation Candidates: The Fire Depart-
ment which includes paramedics (one of the more expen-
sive units in the County). According to the current Town
budget, the average fire department employee including
paramedics costs $ 195,000 per year. Public Works and
Park and Rec. Combining those functions could generate
$800,000+ per year in savings.

Please vote against the measure. Perhaps this will let the
town know, with its $20+ million budget, to fund our basic
services first.

s/CHARLES H. CONRAD
s/GEORGE R. TOPOR
s/STUART JACOBSON
s/SUSAN TOPOR

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE C

Opponents of Measure C agree that paramedic services are
needed. They think that if we vote this tax down, our Town
will somehow find the money, or other communities and
private services would deliver comparable paramedic ser-
vices without the tax. That’s simply not true.

If Measure C fails, six of our paramedic/firefighters will be
terminated, the fire station on Paradise Drive will have to
close, and we will be forced to negotiate with Ross Valley
Paramedic Authority (RVPA) for paramedic services, with-
out the funds needed to pay for them.

Before we had our own Corte Madera Paramedic Unit
based at Station 13 on Paradise Drive, our paramedic tax
dollars paid the RVPA to respond to Corte Madera’s emer-
gency medical calls with their one ambulance. Because
their ambulance is stationed miles away in Ross and
slowed by cross-county traffic, we experienced unaccept-
ably long response times. Seconds can mean the difference
between life and death.

For that reason, a citizens’ committee in the 1990s recom-
mended using the paramedic tax approved in 1983 to fund
our own paramedics and ambulance. We now have para-
medic services in Corte Madera among the best in Marin,
with average response times twice as fast as those provid-
ed by RVPA.

Continuation of the $60 per year paramedic tax (just $5 per
month) is an investment in survival. It could save your
life - or the life of someone you love.

For facts about Measure C and grassroots efforts to save
our paramedic services, visit www.CMParamedics.org and
join us - Vote Yes on Measure C.

Signed,

s/HARRY SCHRIEBMAN
Corte Madera Lifetime Achievement Award Winner
s/BECKY REED
Co-chair, Citizens for Saving Paramedic Services
s/KITTY PROSSER
Corte Madera Lifetime Achievement Award Winner
s/MONICA BONNY
Trustee, Tamalpais Union High School District Board
s/BRANDON HEMLEY
President, Christmas Tree Hilldwellers Association

CMMC-4