DIXIE SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A

To protect local elementary and middle schools, minimize the
impact of state budget cuts, maintain stable local funding the
State can’t take away, and preserve quality education by:
o Retaining qualified teachers;
o Emphasizing reading, writing and math skills;
o Providing instructional materials for science programs; and
o Keeping school libraries open,

Shall Dixie School District increase its expiring school parcel tax
by $107 per parcel for 8 years, with exemptions for seniors,
independent oversight/audits and all funds staying local?

FULL TEXT OF SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A
For

DIXIE SCHOOL DISTRICT

PROTECTION OF QUALITY EDUCATION
IN DIXIE SCHOOLS RENEWAL MEASURE A

INTRODUCTION

To preserve excellence in core academic programs,
including reading, writing, math, and science; reduce the
impact of deep budget cuts with stable locally-controlled
funding; minimize teacher layoffs and class size increases; and
help keep libraries open, shall the Dixie School District renew
and extend its expiring parcel tax for eight years beginning as
of July 1,2011, increase the rate by $107 to a total of $352 per
parcel per year, with an exemption for seniors, and
independent oversight/audits? Said qualified special parcel tax
would renew, extend, and replace the qualified special parcel
tax approved by the voters of the District on April 13, 2004.
PURPOSE

The purpose of this measure is to provide the funding
needed to sustain the outstanding quality of local public
instruction offered in the District’s schools and offset the impact
of uncontrollable cuts in State budget funding for the District by
generating a temporary source of local revenue that cannot be
taken by the State. Funds from this measure will go toward
avoiding teacher and staff layoffs, attracting and retaining
superior teachers, preventing increased class sizes and
reducing class sizes if possible, preventing the elimination of
the grades 3-5 music program, the loss of the 7th period at
Miller Creek Middle School (music, art, and drama), and the
reduction of nursing and counseling services, and maintaining
rigorous curriculum and instruction. Sustaining the outstanding
quality of local public instruction offered in Dixie schools also
helps to protect property values within our community.

The District will use the funds generated from the parcel tax
renewal, to the greatest extent possible, to maintain the
following:

o Retaining qualified teachers;
o Emphasizing reading, writing and math skills;
o Providing instructional materials for science programs;
o Keeping school libraries open;
o Keeping the grades 3-5 music program;
o Keeping the 7th period at Miller Creek Middle School (music,
art, and drama); and

o Retaining nursing and counseling services.

D-1

TAX RATES

The special tax shall be increased by $107 and be levied
against each assessor’s parcel within the District at the rate of
$352 per year for eight years, beginning July 1,2011,

For purposes of this measure, an “assessor’s parcel” or
“parcel” is defined as any unit of land in the District that now
receives a separate property tax bill from the County of Marin.
The taxes imposed by this measure will apply to all parcels
within the District, except that to the extent required by law,
property that is otherwise exempt from property taxes will also
be exempt from the taxes imposed by this measure.
PROCEDURES

Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters voting on this
measure, the qualified special tax shall become effective as of
July 1,2011 and be collected by the Marin County Tax
Collector at the same time as and along with all other taxes
and assessments on the County’s property tax bills. The
qualified special tax shall be subject to the same penalties as
general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector. The
tax and penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate
for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. Any tax levied
shall become a lien upon the properties against which taxes
are assessed and collectible as herein provided.

If approved by two-thirds of the voters casting ballots on this
measure, the special taxes so authorized will entirely
supersede and replace the special taxes authorized by the
District’s voters with the approval of Measure A in 2004. If this
measure is not so approved, then the special taxes approved
by Measure A in 2004 shall continue in effect, in accordance
with their terms.

With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special
tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption allowed below, the
decisions of the District shall be final and binding. The
procedures described herein, and any additional procedures
established by the Board of Trustees, shall be the exclusive
claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund,
reduction, or re-computation of the special tax.

The District’s Board of Trustees may adopt such additional
or supplemental procedures as it deems necessary or
convenient for the administration of the special tax.
EXEMPTIONS

An exemption from the special tax shall be granted on any
parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of such parcel, in
which a beneficial interest is owned by one or more persons
aged 65 years or older who occupies said parcel as the
person’s principal residence, upon application for exemption
(“Senior Citizen Exemption”). Applications for such exemptions
shall be made to the District on or before July 1,2011, or
before May 1 of any succeeding tax year. Any one approved
application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption
D-2

for the parcel for the remaining term of the special tax so long
as such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.

The District shall annually provide to the County Treasurer-
Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax official a list of
parcels that the District has approved for a Senior Citizen
Exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following
accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the
special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the special tax shall be those purposes
identified above; (b) the proceeds of the special tax shall be
applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a
separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the special taxes must be deposited; and (d) an
annual written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of
the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and
expended from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the
status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be
funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as identified
above.

In addition, an oversight committee of citizens will be
appointed or designated by the Board of Trustees to ensure
that the special tax proceeds are spent for their authorized
purposes, and to report annually to the Board of Trustees and
the public regarding the expenditure of such funds.
PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal
funding to the District because of the District’s adoption of a
parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of
the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special
taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore
such State or Federal funding.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the Dixie
Elementary School District will be authorized to replace its
existing parcel tax with a parcel tax of Three Hundred Fifty Two
Dollars ($352.00) on each developed or undeveloped parcel of
land within the District each year for eight (8) years, beginning
on July 1,2011. The tax measure adopted by the District
provides that parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years
of age or older will be exempted from the tax.

D-3

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Our elementary and middle schools in Dixie School District are
among the best in California. Students receive an exceptional
education that emphasizes math, science, reading and writing
and prepares them to succeed in high school, college and their
careers.

Our outstanding student achievement results from the stable
local funding that was first approved by over 73% of local
voters in 1989 and renewed in 1994, 1998 and 2004. This
critical funding helps maintain quality academic programs,
retain experienced teachers, enhances local control and
protects our schools from fluctuations in state funding.

This local funding is set to expire at a time when state funding
is more unreliable and insufficient than ever. In each of the
past two years, the State has cut over $1 million from our
schools. With the state facing a $25 billion deficit, cuts of this
magnitude will continue. Without stable local funding, our
schools have to layoff teachers, increase class sizes and make
deep cuts to instructional programs.

Measure A is on the ballot to continue local funding that is used

to:

•	Support academic programs such as science, math,
reading and writing

•	Provide textbooks, science equipment and classroom
technology

• Keep school libraries open

• Attract and retain qualified teachers

•	Maintain small class sizes

Measure A includes accountability and taxpayer protections:

•	By law, all funds must stay in our community to support our
local schools

•	Not one penny can be taken away by the State

•	None of the funds can be used for administrator salaries

•	An independent citizens’ oversight committee will ensure
funds are spent as promised

•	Seniors will continue to be eligible for an exemption

We all benefit from our outstanding local schools. Good
schools make our neighborhoods more desirable and protect
property values.

Please vote YES on A to maintain our excellent local schools!

s/Claire Snyder, Past President, Dixie Home and School Club
and Dixie Children Fund
s/Steven Rule, President Lucas Valley Homeowners Assoc.
s/Catherine H. Monson, Resident, 47 years, Realtor
s/Tad Jacobs, Resident/Business Owner
s/David C. Green, Former Dixie District Trustee
D-4