TOWN OF FAIRFAX MEASURE D	
MEASURE D: The Fairfax Vital 1 1 Town Service Emergency Pro- tection Measure. To offset declin- ing property tax revenues and severe state budget cuts and to prevent further cuts to g services, shall an ordinance be adopted to half cent transaction and use tax in the tow subject to annual independent audits, put ture reports, local use of all funds, and e March 31, 2017?	YES
	NO
	eneral Town enact a one- n of Fairfax, >lic expendi- xpiration on

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE D

Measure D asks the voters to approve an ordinance that
provides for an additional 1/2-cent tax on each dollar of
taxable sales of goods in the Town of Fairfax, and on the
taxable storage, use or consumption in the Town of goods
purchased from a retailer. This is commonly known as a
“sales tax,” and is technically referred to as a “transactions
and use tax.” The tax revenues would be deposited into the
Town’s general fund and could be used for general munic-
ipal governmental purposes. The measure would not oblig-
ate the Town to use the revenues of the proposed sales tax
for any particular services, facilities, or programs.

The 1/2-cent sales would be in addition to the current sales
tax, and would be collected in the same manner as the
existing sales tax. Presently, the combined state and local
sales tax rate in Fairfax totals 8 cents per dollar. This mea-
sure would have the effect of increasing the total sales tax
rate to 8 1/2 cents per dollar in Fairfax.

The proposed sales tax would be subject to an annual inde-
pendent financial audit that reviews whether the tax is col-
lected, managed and expended in accordance with law.
The Town Council unanimously voted to place this sales
tax measure on the ballot. If approved by a majority of the
voters, the sales tax would go into effect on April 1, 2012
and continue for five years. A full copy of the text of the
sales tax ordinance is printed in these ballot materials.

A “YES” vote on Measure D will enact the sales tax ordi-
nance to increase by 1/2-cent the sales tax rate in Fairfax.
A “NO” vote on Measure D will result in the sales tax
ordinance not being adopted.

s/JIM R. KARPIAK
Town Attorney

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE D

EXHIBIT A
ORDINANCE NO.__________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE
TOWN OF FAIRFAX IMPOSING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD
OF EQUALIZATION
THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF FAIRFAX DO
HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. A new Chapter 3.10 is hereby added to Title
3 (“Revenue and Finance”) of the Fairfax Municipal
Code, to read as follows:

3.10.010 T1T1 ,F,. This ordinance shall be known as
the Fairfax Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The
Town of Fairfax hereinafter shall be called “Town.” This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory
of the Town.

3.10.020	OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date”
means the first day of the first calendar quarter commenc-
ing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordi-
nance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

3.10.030	PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accom-
plish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accor-
dance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the Town to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that
can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as prac-
ticable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures fol-
lowed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provi-
sions of this ordinance.

3.10.040 CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the
operative date, the Town shall contract with the State

Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this transactions and
use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Town shall not
have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior
to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and
in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

3.10.050	TRANSACTIONS TAX BATE. For the
privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a
tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporat-
ed territory of the Town at the rate of one-half % of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.10.060	PLACE OF SAFE. For the purposes of this
ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal prop-
erty sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-
of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has more
than one place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the
State Board of Equalization.

3.10.070	USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby
imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
Town of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for
storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of one-half % of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of
the place to which delivery is made.

3.10.080	ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE
LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

3.10.090	LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE
I .AW AND COT IECTTON OF USE TAXES. In adopting
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this Town
shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the
title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would

require action to be taken by or against this Town or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of
this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not neces-
sarily limited to sections referring to the exterior bound-
aries of the State of California, where the result of the sub-
stitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax
with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other con-
sumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, stor-
age, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible per-
sonal property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “Town” shall be substituted for the
word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in
this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

3.10.100	PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s
permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s
permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.10.110	EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of
the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales
tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of
the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other
than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to
be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or prop-
erty under the authority of the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the
Town which is shipped to a point outside the town, pur-
suant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a
carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the
Town shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with,

Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocu-
mented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commenc-
ing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-Town address and by a declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-Town and decla-
ration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which
is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property
for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and

(4)	of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to ter-
minate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed
by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in
this Town of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which
have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products pur-
chased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire
or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any
right or power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such prop-
erty for any period of time for which the lessee is obligat-
ed to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and

(4)	of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tan-
gible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligat-
ed pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the uncondi-

tional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a
retailer engaged in business in the Town shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the Town or participates within the Town in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited
to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indi-
rectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the Town or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the Town under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the
Town” shall also include any retailer of any of the follow-
ing: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented ves-
sels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who regis-
ters or licenses the vehicle, or aircraft at an address in the
Town.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordi-
nance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant
to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property
the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject
to the use tax.

3.10.120 ANNUA!. AUDIT. By no later than De-
cember 31st of each year, the Town shall cause an inde-
pendent auditor to complete a “Fairfax Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance Report.” Such report shall review
whether the tax revenues collected pursuant to this ordi-
nance are collected, managed and expended in accordance
with the requirements of this ordinance.

3.10.130 A MENDMENTS. All amendments subse-
quent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part

1.7	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

3.10.140 ENJOINING COU.F.CTION FORBID-
DEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or pro-
ceeding in any court against the State or the Town, or
against any officer of the State or the Town, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation code, of any tax
or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.10.150 SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this
ordinance or the application thereof to any person or cir-

cumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

3.10.160 TERMINATION PATH. The authority to
levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on
March 31, 2017, at 11:59 p.m.

Section 2. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the Town transactions and use taxes and shall
take effect immediately.

Section 3. The Town Clerk shall certify the passage of
this ordinance, publish or post the same as required by
applicable law, and forward a copy of the adopted ordi-
nance to the Board of Equalization.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the voters of the Town
of Fairfax at an election held on November 8, 2011.

FXMD-4

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

The financial crisis of 2008 and the deep recession that
followed created a devastating one-two punch to local
governments. Property tax revenues are down, while pub-
lic pension costs, tied to the volatile stock market, contin-
ue to rise. Fairfax has taken aggressive actions to reduce
costs:

•	Performed a rigorous, strategic budgeting process,
reducing departmental budgets across the board

•	Implemented a two-tier system which reduces pen-
sion benefits

•	Increased pension cost sharing for employees

•	Consolidated management positions and left open
staff positions unfilled

•	Froze salaries for employees

In spite of these efforts, Fairfax still faces a budget short-
fall and severe cuts in core public safety and public works
services that residents count on to maintain our quality of
life. To help balance the budget, we must implement a
one-half cent sales tax because:

•	It allows everyone who enjoys Fairfax, particularly
the many visitors who come here for recreational
activities, to pay their fair share

•	Sales taxes do not apply to basic purchases like gro-
cery food items

•	The State of California recently expired a one cent
sales tax, so even with this measure; our sales tax
will still be lower than before

•	It will sunset in five years as the economy recovers
Fairfax already employs the fewest public employees per
capita of any small town in Marin County and our public
safety services are being delivered at exceptionally low
cost. At the same time, Fairfax has earned a reputation for
being one of the most engaged local governments in the
Bay Area.

The Fairfax Town Council unanimously approved Mea-
sure D, and it is endorsed by Supervisor Hal Brown. Now
Fairfax voters must step up to pass this measure and
strengthen Fairfax’s stability and independence. Put your
money where your community is by shopping locally and
voting Yes on Measure D.
s/LARRY BRAGMAN
Fairfax Mayor
s/PAM HARTWELL-HERRERO
Fairfax Vice Mayor
s/INGRID WEISS
Former Director of Fairfax Chamber of Commerce

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE D

The flood is Council’s excuse, not a reason. Fairfax is
financially whole. Fact: Council approved improvements
that FEMA wouldn’t reimburse. Therein lies Council’s
“devastating loss.”

Council squandered Measure F, again cried “financial cri-
sis,” then misled voters into approving Measure I.

Fact: Timely audits were NOT conducted for five years.
After that mess was cleaned up, audits prove Council sold
“financial woe” budgets by understating revenue by
$2,718,700! This is NOT flood money as Council falsely
claims! It is “found” revenue eclipsing Measure F! Fact:
We didn’t need Measures F or I.

Other irresponsible spending: Unwarranted pay raises to
Town Manager and senior staff. Unsustainable lifetime
health and pension benefits costing taxpayers $980,000
from 2006-2009. Our budget actually doubled!

Council proclaims “We need to pay well to attract and
retain good people.” Fact: Fairfax is now on its second
Town Manager, sixth Finance Director, third Planning Di-
rector, and third Public Works Director since 2005. Coun-
cil’s mantra sounds good but actually is false.

Council touts staff changes worth $137,000. Fact: Staff
reductions occurred years ago! Not one recent consolida-
tion or reduction has occurred!

Fact: Sales tax is regressive. While voters struggle to sur-
vive, Fairfax already collects thirteen other taxes and
assessments - and now claims it must have another! Fair-
fax businesses are struggling. More tax makes them less
attractive.

THE PROBLEM ISN’T REVENUE - IT IS COUNCIL’S
SPENDING HABITS.

FORCE REAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT - VOTE
NO ON MEASURE D.
s/JOHN MOLLOY
s/SUSAN A BRANDBORG
Former Mayor of Fairfax
s/ROSE TABER
Fairfax Merchant
s/M.K. BROWN
s/SHEILA SMITH

FXMD-5

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

VOTE NO ON MEASURE D

This is an important ballot measure, so please get all of the
facts before you vote.

The facts are straightforward - Fairfax Council has creat-
ed an unsustainable budget and their answer is more taxes
instead of more fiscal responsibility. The claim they are
spending wisely but the facts prove differently.

Auditor’s reports from fiscal years 2005 thru 2010 show
the real facts that cannot be manipulated. Council tries to
manipulate but these data are taken directly from the
Town’s own auditor’s reports.

While Council Members attempt to distort what these
numbers say - here are the facts:

Over this period, budgets adopted by Council UNDER-
STATED general fund revenue by a total of $2,790,000!
This is how they supported their free-spending ways and
“justified” Measure F. During that same period, Fairfax
spent $909,000 more than budget. Where did that remain-
ing revenue “surplus” of $1,881,000 go? To off-budget
expenditures.

Yet, Council promised that Measure F would sunset in five
years. Instead, Council came back with a repeat Measure I
for the same amount - because they claimed “the Town
needs the money.”

Council blames the flood, the economy and the state for
Fairfax’s financial woes - and now that the statewide tax
of 1% expired on July 1st, Council again “needs the
money” from Measure D to balance its budget.

When projected general fund revenue is understated by
OVER TWO MILLION, SEVEN HUNDRED THOU-
SAND DOLLARS, what possible credibility is there in
Council’s plea that the “Town now needs this additional
money” Short answer - none.

The more we taxpayers feed the monster, the more that
monster will consume. Council must learn to do what we
all must - live within our means! Send Council that mes-
sage by voting NO on Measure D!

Citizens Opposed to Measure D
s/BILL PARKER

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE D

The argument against Measure D is misleading and its
conclusions lack factual basis. Every year, Fairfax Town
finances undergo a rigorous audit by independent Certified
Public Accountants. The audits definitely state that all
Town revenues and expenditures have been properly
accounted for.

The challenges Fairfax faces are the result of falling prop-
erty tax revenues, State of California revenue grabs, and
rising medical and pension costs. The Town has already
taken aggressive actions to reduce costs, including: mak-
ing across the board budget reductions, freezing staff
salaries, increasing pension cost sharing, and eliminating
staff positions.

In spite of these efforts, Fairfax still faces a budget short-
fall and severe cuts in core public safety and public works
services that residents count on to maintain our quality of
life. To help balance the budget, we must implement this
one-half cent sales tax.

The Fairfax Town Council, Chamber of Commerce, and
Supervisor Brown have all endorsed Measure D. Stand
with your community, shop locally, and vote Yes on
Measure D.

s/LARRY BRAGMAN
Fairfax Mayor
s/PAM HARTWELL-HERRERO
Fairfax Vice Mayor
s/BARBARA PETTY
Fairfax Town Treasurer
s/FAIRFAX CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
by Morgan Hall, Board Member

FXMD-6