

L CARDROOM TAX MEASURE. Shall an ordinance
be adopted requiring each cardroom within the City
to pay the City a tax of 2% of annual gross gaming
revenues commencing on January 1,2014; then in each year
thereafter, a tax of 3% of annual gross gaming revenues
up to $5,000,000, and a tax of 4% of annual gross gaming
revenues over $5,000,000, to fund general municipal servic-
es such as public safety, street maintenance, and neighbor-
hood improvements?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

(Cal. Elections Code § 9280)

CITY OF RANCHO CORDOVA MEASURE L

Measure L is a City Council proposed measure which, if approved
by a majority of the voters, will impose a tax on persons engaged
in the business of operating a cardroom in the City of Rancho
Cordova. The tax, also referred to as the “Cardroom Tax,” will con-
sist of a tax on the annual gross gaming revenues received by the
cardroom.

Specifically, Measure L will require persons engaged in the oper-
ation of a cardroom to pay the City a tax of 2% of annual gross
gaming revenues beginning on January 1, 2014. Then, starting
January 1,2014, and in each year thereafter, cardroom operators
will be required to pay a higher rate of 3% of annual gross gam-
ing revenues up to $5,000,000, and a tax of 4% of annua! gross
gaming revenues over $5,000,000.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF RANCHO CORDOVA DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: Chapter 3.90, titled “Cardroom Tax," is hearby
added to the Rancho Cordova Municipal Code to read as follows:

CHAPTER 3.60

CARDROOM TAX

3.90.010	Short Title.

3.90.020	Purpose and Intent.

3.90.030	Definitions.

3.90.040	Payment of Tax.

3.90.050	Statement of Revenue.

3.90.060	Payment - Timing.

3.90.070	Audit of Gross Gaming Revenue Reports and
Payment.

3.90.080	Notice Not Required bv City.

3.90.090 Tax Deemed Debt to City.

3.90.100 Deficiency Determinations.

3.90.110 Tax Assessment: Nonpayment: Fraud.

3.90.120	Tax Assessment: Notice Requirements.

3.90.130 Tax Assessment: Hearing.

3.90.140	Conviction for Chapter Violation: Taxes Not Waived.
3.90.150 Amendment of Tax

Measure L is a tax on annual gross gaming revenues. The
Measure defines gross gaming revenues in the same manner that
the term “gross revenues” is defined in the Gambling Control Act.
Section 19805(r) of the Gambling Control Act defines "gross rev-
enues" as “the total of ail compensation received for conducting
any controlled game, and includes interest received in payment
for credit extended by an owner licensee to a patron for purposes
of gambling, except as provided by regulation." The term "con-
trolled game" is defined by Section 337j{k) of the California Penal
Code in part as “any poker or Pai Gow game, and any other game
played with cards or tiles, or both, approved by the Department of
Justice” and local ordinance.

The City currently has two (2) cardrooms. Measure L will impose
the same tax on both cardrooms.

The number of cardrooms the City can have is subject to State law
and the City’s Municipal Code. Currently, section 4.22.020 of the
City’s Municipal Code and State law only allow two (2) cardrooms
within the City. This Measure will not increase the number of card-
rooms allowed in the City.

The Cardroom Tax .imposed by Measure L is a general tax, which
means that revenues from it are deposited in the City's general
fund to be used for any municipal services and general govern-
ment purposes. Measure L identifies potential municipal services
that it would fund as including “public safety, street maintenance
and neighborhood improvements.” These are examples of, not
limitations on, the many different potential City uses of the tax rev-
enues that will be generated by Measure L.

Measure L will not become effective unless the Measure is
approved by at least a majority of those voting on the Measure.

DATED: July 23,2012

s/Adam U. Lindgren
City Attorney

3.90.010	Short Title.

This chapter shall be known as the Rancho Cordova Cardroom
Tax Ordinance.

3.90.020	Purpose and Intent.

This Cardroom Tax is a license tax on the privilege of operating a
cardroom within the City of Rancho Cordova, and is enacted sole-
ly to raise revenue for municipal purposes and is not intended for
regulation.

3.90.030	Definitions.

A.	“Annual Gross Gaming Revenues” shall mean the Gross
Gaming Revenues produced each calendar year between
January 1 st through December 31 st. For new cardrooms, the first
annual Gross Gaming Revenues shall begin on the date the cer-
tificate of the occupancy is issued for the cardroom and end on
December 31st of that same year."

B.	“Discontinued, dissolved or otherwise terminated” shall mean
the date the cardroom is no longer in operation as described in the
business iicense(s) issued to the cardroom by the City pursuant to
Title 4 of this Code. The Finance Director, using all evidence,
including evidence provided by the cardroom licensee, shall make
the determination as to whether a cardroom has been discontin-
ued, dissolved or otherwise terminated.

C.	“Gross Gaming Revenues” shall be defined in accordance
with the definition of “Gross Revenue” provided in California
Business and Professions Code Section 19805(r) as may be
amended from time to time.

D.	“Licensee” means a person who has been issued a cardroom
business license under Title 4 of this Code.

3.90.040	Payment of Tax.

in addition to any requirements imposed by Title 4 of this Code,
each licensee operating a cardroom within the City shall pay the
City a percentage of the cardroom’s annual Gross Gaming
Revenues received by the cardroom as follows: a tax of 2% of
Annual Gross Gaming Revenues commencing on January 1,

Ballot Type 101 Rage 20

www.elections.saccounty.net

2014; then in each year thereafter, a tax of 3% of Annual Gross
Gaming Revenues up to $5,000,000, and a tax of 4% on Annual
Gross Gaming Revenues over $5,000,000.

3.90.050	Statement of Revenue.

Before the 30th day following the end of each quarter, the licens-
ee shall file with the City Finance Department a statement, under
oath, showing the true and correct amount of Annual Gross
Gaming Revenue for the preceding quarter. A signed declaration
shall be attached to the statement included therein, which shall be
in substantially the same form as: “I hereby declare under penal-
ty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct." Pursuant to
Section 3.90.070 of this Chapter, the City shall have the right to
audit the matters reported in the statement to determine the accu-
racy of the figures contained therein.

3.90.060	Payment - Timing.

A.	All taxes imposed by this Chapter shall be made at the same
time the licensee files the statement of revenue with the Finance
Department. Payment of taxes imposed by this Chapter shall
accompany the statement of revenue and shall be in the correct
amount of taxes due and owing in accordance with Section

3.60.040	of this Chapter. Such sums correctly reflecting the quar-
terly fees payable for the preceding quarter shall be accepted by
the City, subject, however, to the City’s right to conduct an audit
pursuant to Section 3.90.070 of this Chapter.

B.	In the case of a card room which is discontinued, dissolved or
otherwise terminated before the expiration of a tax period, the due
date for any taxes accrued and owing to the City under the provi-
sions of this Chapter shall be the date of the discontinuance, dis-
solvement or termination of the cardroom business.

C.	Payments not received within 30 days of the end of the quar-
ter will be subject to a late fee of one and one-half percent (1.5%)
per month of the amount past due, plus all reasonable collection
fees and costs.

3.90.070	Audit of Gross Gaming Revenue Reports and
Payment.

A.	The City shall have the right to audit the matters referred to in
the statement of revenue, and to determine the correctness of the
figures set forth in such statement and the amount payable to the
City pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.90.040.

B.	The books, records and accounts of any licensee may be
inspected and audited by the City.

C.	Such an inspection and audit may be performed by the
Finance Director, a qualified accountant or City official who shall
be selected by the Finance Director.

D.	To facilitate such audits, the licensee shall keep complete
records of all transactions related to the receipt or disbursement
of funds arising out of or related to cardroom operations during the
preceding three-year period. All such records shall be made
available to the City for audit at the licensee’s place of doing busi-
ness after reasonable prior notice.

E.	Any failure or refusal of any licensee to make and file a state-
ment of revenue as required within the time required, or to pay
such sums by way of taxes when the same are due and payable
in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, or to permit
such inspection of such books, records and accounts of such
licensee shall be and constitute full and sufficient grounds for sus-
pension or revocation of any cardroom business license issued to
the licensee pursuant to Title 4 of this Code.

3.90.080	Notice Not Required by City.

The City is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or
bill to any person subject to the provisions of this Chapter, and fail-
ure to send such notice or bill shall not affect the validity of any
tax, interest or penalty due under the provisions of this Chapter.

3.90.090 Tax Deemed Debt to City.

The amount of any tax, penalties and interest imposed by the pro-
visions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City, and any
licensee carrying on any business without having paid the tax
under this Chapter to the City shall be liable to an action in the
name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
amount of the tax, and penalties and interest imposed on such
business.

3.90.100 Deficiency Determinations.

A.	If the Finance Director is not satisfied that a statement of rev-
enue filed, as required under the provisions of this Chapter, is cor-
rect, or that the amount of tax is correctly computed, the Finance
Director may compute and determine the amount to be paid and
make a deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts con-
tained in the statement of revenue or upon the basis of any infor-
mation in the City’s possession or that may come into the City's
possession.

B.	The City may make more than one deficiency determination of
the amount of tax due for a period or periods.

C.	In the case of a cardroom which is discontinued, dissolved or
otherwise terminated, a deficiency determination may be made at
any time within three years thereafter as to any liability arising from
engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency determina-
tion is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due.

D.	Whenever a deficiency determination is made, the City shall
provide a notice to the person concerned in the same manner as
notices of assessment are given under Section 3.90.120.

3.90.110 Tax Assessment; Nonpayment; Fraud.

A.	Under any of the following circumstances, the Finance Director
may make and give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax
owed by a person under this Chapter:

1.	if the person has not filed any statements of revenue required
under the provisions of this Chapter;

2.	if the person has not paid any tax due under the provisions of
this Chapter;

3.	If the person has not, after demand by the Finance Director,
filed a corrected statement of revenue or furnished to the Finance
Director adequate substantiation of the information contained in a
statement of revenue already filed, or paid any additional amount
of tax due under the provisions of this Chapter.

B.	The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount
of any tax known or estimated by the Finance Director to be due,
after full consideration of all information within his or her knowledge
concerning the cardroom business and activities of the person
assessed and shall include the amount of any penalties, costs or
interest accrued on each amount to the date of the notice of
assessment.

3.90.120 Tax Assessment; Notice Requirements.

The notice of assessment shall be served upon the licensee either
by personally serving it to the licensee, or by a deposit of the notice
in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to
the licensee at the address of the location of the business appear-
ing on the face of the business iicense(s) issued under Title 4 to the
licensee, or to such other address as he or she shall register with
the Finance Director for the purpose of receiving notices provided
under this Chapter. For the purposes of this Section, a service by
mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.

3.90.130 Tax Assessment; Hearing.

A.	Within ten (10) days after the date of service of a notice under
Section 3.60.120 of this Chapter, the licensee may apply in writing
to the Finance Director for a hearing on the assessment.

B.	if application for a hearing before the Finance Director is not
made within the time herein prescribed, the tax assessed by the

Ballot Type 101 Page 21

www.elections.saccounty.net

Finance Director shall become final and conclusive.

C.	Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of any such application
for hearing, the Finance Director shall cause the matter to be set
for hearing before him or her not later than thirty (30) days after
the date of application, unless a later date is agreed to by the
Finance Director and the licensee requesting the hearing.

D.	Notice of such hearing shall be given by the Finance Director
to the licensee requesting such hearing not later than five (5) days
prior to such hearing. At such hearing, said licensee may appear
and offer evidence why the assessment as made by the Finance
Director should not be confirmed and fixed as a tax.

E.	After such hearing the Finance Director shall determine and
reassess the proper tax to be charged and shall give written notice
thereof to the licensee in the manner prescribed in Section

3.60.120	for giving notice of assessment.

3.90.140	Conviction for Chapter Violation; Taxes Not
Waived.

A.	The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to
pay the required tax shall not excuse or exempt such person from
any civil action for the tax debt unpaid at the time of such convic-
tion.

B.	No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any vio-
lation of the provisions of this Chapter or of any State Law requir-
ing the payment of all taxes.

3.90.150. Amendment of Tax. Chapter 3.90 of the Municipal
Code may be amended by the City Council without a vote of the
people. However, as required by Chapter XI11C of the California
Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment provi-
sion that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this
Ordinance. The People of the City of Rancho Cordova affirm that
the following actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of
a tax:

1.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no
higher than that set by this Ordinance, if the City Council has
adopted an ordinance to reduce the rate of the tax;

2.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of
the tax, or any definition applicable to the tax, so long as interpre-
tation or clarification (even if contrary to some prior interpretation
or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this
Ordinance.

3.	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or
excepted from the tax or the discontinuation of any such exemp-
tion or exception (other than the discontinuation of an exemption
or exception specifically set forth in this Ordinance); and

4.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance,
even if the City had, for some period of time, failed to collect the
tax.

SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Chapter shall become
effective immediately upon the date that this Ordinance is
approved by the voters of the City of Rancho Cordova at the
Election of November 6, 2012 as confirmed by the City Council’s
declaration of the vote.

SECTION 3. Severability. If any section, subsection, sen-
tence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is for any rea-
son held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall
nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The people hereby
declares that they would have adopted each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespec-
tive of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sen-
tences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be
declared invalid or unenforceable.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of
Rancho Cordova on November 6, 2012.

ADOPTED by Declaration of the vote by the City Council of
the City of Rancho Cordova on________2012:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

David Sander, Mayor
ATTEST:

Mindy Cuppy, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Adam Lindgren, City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Argument in Favor of Measure

Your Yes vote on Measure L supports vital community services and
keeps Rancho Cordova’s future strong. Our City of Rancho
Cordova needs to maintain its successful history of balanced budg-
ets to preserve our quality of life; Measure L can help our city pro-
vide the level of services we want and need.

This tax does not apply to the general public. This tax would
only apply to the two legal gaming establishments in the City
of Rancho Cordova.

The State of California, not the City of Rancho Cordova, provides
the license that allows gaming facilities to operate. The State has
permitted two State licensed cardrooms within the City boundaries.

A Yes on L means that ail cardrooms will pay their fair share to
keep our city’s services strong for future generations.

A Yes on L will also mean that our City can continue to fund vital
services such as public safety, maintenance and improvements to
city streets and sidewalks, graffiti removal, and neighborhood
enhancements among other general services.

Vote YES on Measure L.

s/Linda Budge

Vice Mayor, City of Rancho Cordova
s/Craig Osborn

Rancho Cordova Resident, Businessman

s/Ryan Lundquist
Community Activist

s/Josie Steelman

Retired Small Business Owner

s/Conrade C. Mayer

Realtor and Community Volunteer

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L WAS FILED

Ballot Type 101 Page 22

www.elections.saccounty.net