VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF CAPITOLA

Shall a City of Capitola permanent sales tax increase of

Oone quarter of one percent be adopted to pay for disaster
recovery and to maintain general services including
public safety and street improvements?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE 0

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CAPITOLA IMPOSING A PERMANENT
RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF CAPITOLA, CALIFORNIA, DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Capitola Permanent
Retail Transaction and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Capitola hereinafter shall
be called “City”. This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of
the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this
ordinance, the date of such adoption being set forth as below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a permanent retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority
of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of equalization in a manner that adapts itself fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in
a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize
the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time,
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transaction and use tax ordinance; provided,
that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the City at the rate of one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of
this ordinance. This tax is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) temporary retail transactions and use tax imposed pursuant to
Chapter 3.10 of the Capitola Municipal Code.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purpose of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination
or to a common carrier for charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a

retailer has no permanent place of business in the State of has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated
shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales and use tax regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. This tax is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) temporary excise tax imposed pursuant to Chapter 3.10 of
the Capitola Municipal Code.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION
OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provision of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall
not be made where:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code; or,

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactors’ permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempt from the consumption of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

44-518

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside
the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such an address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale price of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of like for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transaction tax
under any state-administered transaction and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to
a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which the party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or

participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through a representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any
of the following” vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in
the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 23
of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of
this ordinance to part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected hereby.

Section 15. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Section 16. CODIFICATION. Upon adoption of this ordinance pursuant to the voter
approval, the City Clerk, in consultation with the City Attorney, is hereby authorized
and directed to codify this ordinance in the Capitola Municipal Code.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE O

In 2004, City voters approved a temporary % cent sales tax increase which was
originally scheduled to sunset on June 30,2010. In 2008 City voters extended the
sunset date to December 31, 2017. As a result of these two voter approvals the
current sales tax rate (combined state and local sales tax) in Capitola is 8 %
percent.

This ordinance, if adopted by the voters, would increase the sales tax rate by
another % percent from the current rate of 8 % percent to 8 !4 percent. The sales
tax increase proposed by this ballot measure has no sunset date. Accordingly if the
proposed permanent % percent tax increase is approved by the voters, the City’s
sales tax, also known as the City’s retail transactions and use tax, will total 8 !4
percent through December 31,2017 and 8 % percent thereafter.

All City revenue generated by the sales tax is used by the City to pay for general
City operations and programs including public safety and street improvements. As
such, this ballot measure proposes a “general purpose tax” rather than a “special
purpose tax” and requires a simple majority vote for adoption.

si John Barisone
City Attorney

44-519

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 0  The 2011 March floods depleted the city’s Emergency Reserves Fund to a dangerously low level. Although the floods were officially declared a disaster, due to state & federal fiscal difficulties, Capitola received NO emergency reimbursement for flood disaster expenses.  In addition, Capitola has been hard-hit by the prolonged economic downturn. This, combined with the floods, means that Capitola is facing unprecedented fiscal challenges. In response, over the last 5 years Capitola City staffing has been significantly reduced by eight full-time employees. During this period, maintenance to the City’s streets, storm drains and other infrastructure has also had to be decreased. At least $450,000 annually is needed to keep local streets in a stable condition. Yet only 1/3 of this has been available to spend annually on streets and infrastructure maintenance during the last three years.  Of even greater concern are delays in preventive pavement maintenance. If preventive maintenance is delayed, our roads will deteriorate to the point where repair costs will increase dramatically, by a factor of 50 times.  Added to all of this, elimination of the Redevelopment Agency has meant that funds to manage congestion along 41st Avenue are not available.  Help keep our town of Capitola intact. If this Measure passes, the City can;  •	Improve local roads at the level necessary;  •	Maintain City fiscal stability to provide essential services;  •	Maintain police services;  •	Restore emergency reserves;  •	Assist in relocating Pacific Cove Mobilehome Park residents displaced by the flood.  This measure has broad community support because;  •	Visitors and nonresidents will pay 83% of the tax;  •	The impact is only 25 cents for every $100 of taxable expenditures;  •	Proceeds are reinvested in Capitola, and not sent to the State or Federal government.  Please vote YES on this measure. Let’s keep Capitola the very best place to live!  si Michael Termini Mayor, City of Capitola  si Stephanie Harlan Vice Mayor, City of Capitola  si Dennis Norton Council Member, City of Capitola  si Kirby Nicol Council Member, City of Capitola  si Sam Storey Council Member, City of Capitola	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O  It is the duty of city councils to assure their city is prepared for emergencies through adequate reserves and comprehensive insurance coverage. This was not done in Capitola. In 2011, the Council’s inattention to these important matters resulted in substantial financial losses.  Currently, Capitola receives $492 annually per resident in Sales Tax Revenue. (Santa Cruz receives $225, Scotts Valley $181, and Watsonville $140.) This apparently isn’t enough for Capitola. Eliminating eight city positions still increased the city payroll! Capitola doesn’t have a revenue problem; it has a spending problem.  Since 2004, the additional sales tax levies have generated over $6M in additional revenue yet the promised community benefits have failed to appear. During the same period, the city has increased its indebtedness by over $8.5M. The annual debt service costs nearly $1M. It should be apparent by now that continued sales tax increases without substantial spending reductions will not improve either the levels of city services or the condition of our streets.  The Council has asked for and received additional sales tax revenues twice, yet the promised benefits have failed to materialize. In the words of a concerned citizen, “The Council has spent the city into a hole and is now interested only in buying more shovels.”  We believe the time has come to end the almost decade long charade that sales tax increases alone will solve Capitola’s fiscal problems. Please join us in voting no on Proposition O.  si Sandra L. Erickson Capitola Resident  si Willem Evers Capitola Resident  si Mary Sue Leffel Capitola Resident  si Michael L. Richardson Capitola Resident  si Glenn Hanna Former Capitola City Treasurer

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE 0  Don’t be fooled again! Capitola Council members want you to think someone else is going to pay 83% of the additional 14% sales tax they want to add. You will pay 100% of the tax on every taxable item you buy in Capitola. The Council acts as if the last five years has not changed our financial reality. Everyone, especially those of us on fixed incomes will be affected by this unnecessary tax increase.  Sixty-five percent of the city budget is in salaries and benefits. These costs have risen 37% in the last 10 years and revenue is only up by 17%. Unless these costs are addressed, there will never be enough money for roads and infrastructure maintenance. To date, personnel cuts are made only through attrition and furloughs. The Council’s current spending priorities are misguided. The cost of hiring consultants and lawyers last year was almost 4 times the funding for street maintenance.  This is the third time the Council has promised that a sales tax increase will fix the problem. The temporary %% sales tax enacted in 2004 was extended in 2008. The current proposal will double it to y2% for the next 5 years and make the temporary Va% permanent. If Governor Brown’s tax increase passes in November, you will pay nearly 10% extra for everything. The highest in the county! The Council lacks the courage to set priorities and make tough decisions. It’s far easier for them to raise your taxes!  We know from their track record we will have nothing to show for giving the City more of our money. Give Target and 300 new jobs a chance to improve Capitola’s economy.  Please Vote NO!  si Glenn Hanna Former Capitola City Treasurer  si John Dufresne Capitola Resident  si Willem Evers Capitola Resident  si Lawrence Borger Capitola Resident  si Sandra Erickson USAFR (RET)  Capitola Resident	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O  In the 1970’s, Capitola was a sleepy beach town with low property taxes, and limited funds to run the City: police, parks, lifeguards, streets, recreation programs, etc. The City was wise to annex 41st Avenue and develop a shopping district. This provided sales tax which was used to improve the City and have more services for the residents, visitors, and businesses. We are very proud of our beautiful town, but we have many streets that need to be repaired, and we need the funds to do it.  The City has taken deliberate measures to contain costs: staffing has been reduced by 8 full-time positions. We are the only city in the area that capped retirement costs of the employees years ago. We are not facing run-away retirement costs in the future. The City was able to establish a prudent reserve account of almost $2 million dollars. It was depleted repairing the storm drain pipe, and the flooded City Hall and Police Department. We did not receive Federal FEMA money and are seeking payment from our insurance company.  The slow economy has affected us all. Sales tax revenue since Measure P was first passed in 2004 has dropped by approximately $900,000. Measure O will assist the City in replenishing this revenue so that the roads can be fixed, services can be maintained, emergency reserves can be restored and Capitola can recover its sound fiscal footing.  Please Vote YES on Measure O.  si Stephanie Harlan City Council Member  si Dennis Norton City Council Member  s/Jacques Bertrand City Treasurer  si Edward Bottorff Traffic & Parking Commissioner