MEASURE I2012
City of Guadalupe
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

This measure has been placed on the ballot by the City Council of the
City of Guadalupe. If approved, Measure 12012 would impose an
annual parcel tax of $20 per parcel of taxable real property within the
City to fund library staffing, facilities and services. A super-majority
(2/3) of voters must vote to approve the parcel tax in order for it to
become effective. The parcel tax would be collected for a period of
eight years, beginning July 1, 2013. The funds collected would be
placed into a "Special Library Services Tax Fund" to be used exclusively
to restore and maintain library staffing, facilities and services. Parcels
owned by tax-exempt educational, charitable or religious organizations
would be exempt from the parcel tax.

A YES vote approves the measure and the parcel tax will be imposed
and collected for eight years.

A NO vote rejects the measure and the parcel tax will not be imposed or
collected.

Is! David Fleishman

City Attorney, City of Guadalupe

MEASURE I2012
City of Guadalupe
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE
ORDINANCE NO. 2012-408

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF GUADALUPE, ADDING CHAPTER 3.22 TO THE GUADALUPE MUNICIPAL CODE TO
ESTABLISH THE CITY OF GUADALUPE SPECIAL LIBRARY SERVICES PARCEL TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF GUADALUPE DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION!

A new Chapter 3.22 entitled "Special Library Services Parcel Tax" is hereby added to the Guadalupe Municipal Code as follows:

3.22.010 Title

This chapter shall be known as the “Special Library Services Parcel Tax."

3.22.020 Necessity, Authority, and Purpose

The People of the City of Guadalupe hereby determine that the cost to maintain basic library services at the level required to provide for the
general welfare of the residents of the city exceeds the amount of funds and revenues generated from all other sources. The People further
determine that the levy of a special library services parcel tax for a period of eight years on all taxable parcels of real property throughout the City
is necessary to maintain an adequate level of basic library services. Accordingly, a tax is imposed by this chapter pursuant to Section 37100.5 of
the Government Code of the State.

3.22.030 Tax Imposed; sunset

A special library services parcel tax is hereby imposed effective July 1,2013 and levied on all real property within the boundaries of the City at the
flat rate of twenty (520.00) Dollars per year per parcel. As used herein, a "parcel" shall be defined as any parcel of land, developed or
undeveloped, wholly or partially located within the City of Guadalupe, for which the County Assessor of Santa Barbara has assigned an assessor’s
parcel number. The parcel tax imposed by this section shall be collected for a period of eight years from the effective date of July 1, 2013, and
thereafter shall cease to be collected. The parcel tax shall be collected in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as with other
property taxes imposed within the City.

3.22.040 Increase Appropriations Limit Constitution Article XIIIB

The appropriations limit for the City will be increased one times the aggregate sum authorized to be levied as a special tax in each of the years
covered by this ordinance.

3,22.050 Deposit and Use of Funds from Special Library Services Tax

(a)	All proceeds from the taxes imposed and levied by this chapter shall be paid into the "Special Library Services Tax Fund" to be used
exclusively to restore and maintain library staffing, facilities and services.

(b)	The finance director shall annually report to council the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any projects funded with the
funds collected.

3.22,060 Exemptions

Parcels used exclusively for educational, charitable, or religious purposes owned and operated by institutions, foundations, or corporations
organized and operated for educational, charitable, or religious purposes shall be granted an exemption to the tax imposed by this chapter on
proof that any such organization has first qualified as an exempt organization under subsection (d) of Section 23701 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the State and subsection (3) of subsection (c) of Section 501 of the Interna! Revenue Code of 1954,

PR-9040-2

SR 000-000

3.22.070 Refund claims.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City
under this chapter, it may be refunded, provided a claim in writing therefor is filed with the City Clerk. The claim shall conform in all respects to the
requirements set forth for claims against the City in Chapter 1.10 of this code. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the City Clerk.

3.22.080 Partial invalidity

This chapter shall not be interpreted in any manner to conflict with controlling provisions of state law, including, without limitation, the Government
Code of the State of California. If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause of this chapter is for any reason held by any court to be
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter. The People hereby declare that they would have adopted this chapter,
and each section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause thereof, irrespective of the fact any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
phrases, or clauses be declared for any reason invalid.

SECTION 2.

This ordinance is ordered to be submitted to election as a proposition pursuant to Elections Code Section 9222 and shall not become
operative unless and until a 2/3 majority of the electors voting on this measure vote to approve this ordinance at the genera! municipal election to
be held on November 6, 2012, Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9222 the exact form of the question to be voted on at the election as it should
appear on the ballot is as follows:

CITY OF GUADALUPE MEASURE

To provide critical funding for library staffing, facilities and services,;shall a parcel tax.
all parcels of real property within the City for a period of eight ybars?-

of:$20 peryearbe

mposed on

SECTION 3.

The authority to levy the tax increase imposed by this ordinance shall expire eight years from July 1,2013.

SECTION 4.

If this ordinance is approved by a 2/3 majority of the electors voting on the issue at the November 6, 2012 general municipal election,
pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, the ordinance shall be become effective ten (10) days after the City Council accepts the certified results
of the election.