MEASURE P
RESOLUTION NO. 12-100

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
OF THE COUNTY OF SISKIYOU
CREATING

THE BLACK MOUNTAIN FIRE AND EMERGENCY

RESPONSE ZONE
OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 4

:	WHEREAS,	County	Service	Area	No.	4 is formed and in existence

| to provide fire protection services to the unincorporated areas of
| Siskiyou County, but is currently not funded; and

WHEREAS, the Siskiyou County Board of Supervisors has received
| a citizens petition from voters within the unincorporated Black Mountain
I area requesting the formation of the Black Mountain Fire and Emergency
| Response Zone within County Service Area No. 4 to provide firefighting
(land emergency response services within that area; and
I, WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors held a noticed public hearing
on formation of the proposed zone on April 17, 2012; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors had determined that it is in
the best interest of the residents and property owners to form the
Black Mountain Fire and Emergency Response Zone.

NOW THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE
COUNTY OF SISKIYOU RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

1.	It is in the public interest to provide an increased level of fire
protection and emergency first response services in the area
of the proposed Black Mountain Fire and Emergency Response
Zone of County Service Area No. 4;

2.	A majority protest against the proposed formation of the Black
Mountain Fire and Emergency Response Zone does not exist
pursuant to Government Code section 25217.1, subdivision (b).

3.	That portion of County Service Area No. 4 shown in Exhibit A
and described in Exhibit B, both of which are attached hereto

f and incorporated herein by this reference, is established as the
Black Mountain Fire and Emergency Response Zone of County
Service Area No. 4, subject to voter approval of a measure
authorizing the levy of a special tax within the proposed zone,
at the election to be held on November 6, 2012.

4.	The-effective date of this Board’s establishment of the proposed
zone shall be upon this Board’s adoption of a resolution
declaring the results of the November 6, 2012 election,
(“Effective Date”),

5.	On or after the Effective Date, the Clerk of this Board shall
cause the filing of a statement of the creation of said zone to
be made with the County Assessor and the State Board of
Equalization. The filing shall include a map or plat indicating
the boundaries of said zone.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Siskiyou County Board of
Supervisors at a regular meeting of said Board, held on the 17th day
of April, 2012, by the following vote:

AYES: Supervisors Bennett, Valenzuela, Armstrong, Kobseff and Cook
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

si Grace Bennett, Chair
Siskiyou County Board of Supervisors

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

MEASURE“P”

BLACK MOUNTAIN FIRE AND EMERGENCY
RESPONSE ZONE SPECIAL TAX

Pursuant to Articles XIIIA and XIIIC of the California Constitution,
Government Code Section 25215.2, and Government Code Section
50075 et seq,, this special tax, if approved by two-thirds of the voters
authorized to cast votes in this matter, will be levied upon each legal
parcel less than twenty (20) acres in size within the Black Mountain
Fire and Emergency Response Zone.

If the measure does not receive two-thirds of the votes of those
voters authorized to cast votes in this matter, the measure will be
defeated and the special tax will not be imposed. If this special tax
is approved, it will result in a special tax for each first parcel of Thirty
Dollars ($30.00) for an improved parcel and Twelve Dollars ($12.00)
for an unimproved parcel. Each successive parcel thereafter will be
subject to a special tax of Twelve Dollars ($12.00) for each improved
parcel and Six Dollars ($6.00) for each unimproved parcel. The
measure also includes an annual adjustment based on the Consumer
Price Index not to exceed four percent (4%) in any year.

An improved parcel is defined by the measure to mean those parcels
on either the secured or unsecured roll having an improvement value
of more than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) or identified by the
Siskiyou County Assessor’s Office as having a mobile home or
manufactured home on the property as of the annual January 1st
lien date. Unimproved parcels are defined by the measure to be those
parcels on either the secured or unsecured roll having an improvement
value of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) or less and identified by
the Siskiyou County Assessor’s Office as not having a mobile home
or manufactured home on the property.

If the measure is approved, the purpose for which this special tax
will be utilized is to establish a stable source of funds within the Black
Mountain Fire and Emergency Response Zone of County Service
Area No. 4 to obtain, furnish, operate, and maintain fire suppression
equipment, apparatus, and related services for the protection of life
and property in the Black Mountain Fire and Emergency Response
Zone. The measure allows for County Service Area No. 4 to contract
with other agencies to carry out the purposes for which the special
tax is to be used.

If the special tax receives the approval of two-thirds of the voters
authorized to vote upon the measure, upon certification of the election,
it will become a lien on the applicable properties as of January 1,
2013, and will be initially billed on the 2013-2014 secured tax roll.

A “yes” vote is a vote to authorize the special tax.

A “no” vote is a vote against authorizing the special tax.

s/ Thomas P. Guarino
Siskiyou County Counsel

ATTEST:

COLLEEN SETZER,
COUNTY CLERK
By: s/Wendy Winningham
Deputy