<summary> Measure A; Sales Tax, County of Santa Clara

Shall the County of Santa Clara enact a one-eighth cent sales tax, that cannot be taken by the
state, for local priorities such as:

•	Law enforcement and public safety;

•	Trauma and emergency room services;

•	Health coverage for low-income children;

•	Economic development and job creation;

•	Housing for the homeless; and

•	Programs to help students stay in school;

for a limited period of ten years, with annual public reports to ensure fiscal accountability?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve for ten years a County-wide sales tax increase of 0.125% (one-
eighth cent tax).

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote to reject this County-wide sales tax increase. <summaryend>





<impartial> Impartial Analysis from Deputy City_Attorney, City and County of San Francisco, on
behalf of Acting County Counsel. County of Santa Clara

Measure A would authorize an increase in the sales tax within the County of Santa Clara (the
"County") of 0.125% (one-eighth cent tax) for ten years. The additional sales tax would be a
general tax, meaning the County could use the funds that the tax generates for any County
purposes.

The County now has an 8.375% sales tax with two main parts:

•	7.25%	in	State taxes, part of which the County receives; and

•	1.125% in special district taxes that fund transportation services.

California law allows cities in the County to impose additional sales taxes up to a certain
amount. The City of Campbell imposes an additional city sales tax of 0.25% (one-quarter cent
tax). No other city in the County now has a city sales tax. California law allows the County to
increase the sales tax with voter approval, as long as the combined State, County and city taxes
do not exceed 9.25%.

Measure A would increase the sales tax rate in the County by 0.125% (one-eighth cent tax), for a
total sales tax rate of 8.5% (or 8.75% in the City of Campbell). The tax would apply to most
retail sales in the County.

The sales tax increase would be a general tax, so the County could use funds from the tax for any
County purposes. For example, as stated in the measure, the tax funds could be used for law
enforcement and public safety, trauma and emergency room services, health coverage for low-
income children, economic development and job creation, housing for the homeless, programs to

help students stay in school, and other uses.

The measure requires approval by a majority of the votes cast in the County. If the voters
approve this measure, then the County will start collecting this additional sales tax on April 1,
2013. The measure requires the County, upon passage of the tax, to issue an annual report to
ensure fiscal accountability. The additional tax will last for ten years. At the end of ten years, on
March 31, 2023, the additional tax will expire.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve for ten years a County-wide sales tax increase of 0.125% (one-
eighth cent tax).

A "no" vote is a vote to reject this County-wide sales tax increase. <impartialend>





<impartialsigs> Prepared by:

/s/ Jon Givner

Deputy City Attorney, City and County of San Francisco
On behalf of:

/s/ Lori E. Pegg
Acting County Counsel <impartialsigsend>





<favor> Arguments for Measure A

We just can't rely on the state and federal government to provide services we need here in our
County. In Washington and Sacramento, they make cuts based on their priorities, not our
priorities. Measure A will generate funds that cannot be taken away by the state. They can only
be used for essential local services.

Vote Yes on Measure A - for services that will be there when we need them.

Measure A will help maintain high quality health care at Valley Medical Center hospital and
local clinics — used by one in four residents of the County. When every minute counts, the
Emergency Room, bum center, and trauma services are there to respond to auto crashes, heart
attacks, and sudden accidents. When a premature baby must struggle for each breath, an
intensive care unit specialized for infants is open and ready. These are critical services our
families and our neighbors depend on.

Measure A will help prevent cuts to the County's Healthy Kids program which provides
coverage for thousands of children who, before the program started, did not have any coverage at
all. Children with health coverage miss fewer days of school and show improvement in paying
attention and keeping up with school activities.

Measure A will support public safety and law enforcement programs that keep criminals off the
streets.

Measure A will support programs to help students stay in school, and stay healthy and able to
learn.

Measure A will support controlling the spread of diseases like tuberculosis, whooping cough,
AIDS and H1N1 through early detection and immunizations.

Measure A means we can count on these critical services for our local community.

Join us in working to provide a healthy and safe quality of life for our County and Vote Yes on
Measure A. <favorend>




<favorsigs> /s/ Jeffrey F. Rosen
District Attorney

/s/ Anna Song

Santa Clara County Office of Education Board Member

/s/ Amardeep Misha

Local Small Business Owner

/s/ Gregg Adams

Former Santa Clara Valley Medical Center Chief of Pediatric Trauma,

Stanford School of Medicine Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery
/s/ Kathleen M. King <favorsigsend>





<rebutfavor> Santa Clara Family Health Foundation Executive Director
Rebuttal to Arguments For

Every time a tax measure is put on the ballot, we - the taxpayers - are promised the money will
go to pay for or preserve critical services. But when the politicians get the money, they spend it
as they please. Measure A is no different.

Don't be fooled. Measure A does not require the County to spend the higher sales tax revenues
on healthcare, children, education, or public safety. The County Office of Public Affairs says the
only spending restriction on the new money is that it must be spent in this County. So within the
County, the politicians will be free to spend the money just as unwisely as they have in the past.
Don’t be scared. Those in favor of higher taxes always threaten to cut the same vital services if
they don't get their way. That's not what happens when we say no to higher taxes. Non-essential
services, non-essential government employees, and high salaries and benefits are cut first. And
there's plenty to cut in Santa Clara County.

The truth is that higher sales taxes hurt those on low to moderate and fixed incomes the most.
Everything we buy will cost more and those with the least amount of money will suffer every
time they go to the store to buy what they need to get by in these hard times.

Don't be fooled or scared into voting for higher taxes.

Vote NO on Measure A. <rebutfavorend>





<rebutfavorsigs> For more information: http://www.svtaxpayers.org/santa-clara-county
/s/ John W.S. Roeder

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association
/s/ Edward Leo Wimmers
Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
/s/ Matthew R. Mahood

President & CEO, San Jose Silicon Valley Chamber
/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle

Board Member: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association <rebutfavorsigsend>





<against> Arguments Against Measure A

The Board of Supervisors in their resolution calling for this sales tax increase state "the decline
in the economy has resulted in substantially reduced revenues to the County....".

That may be true, but it is certainly true that consumers and taxpayers have also suffered a
decline in their economy. Who's going to raise their income?

If the taxpayers have had to tighten their belts, why can't government tighten its belt?

Who's the priority here: the government or the citizens it's supposed to serve???

If Measure A passes, the County government gets to loosen its belt while all the rest of us get to
punch another hole in our belt to tighten it even further. That's not right. That's not fair.

During a recession with high unemployment in California, everyone in our community has had
to sacrifice. Everyone must pitch in.

In these tough times, we all must live within our means. It is not fair that Santa Clara County
Supervisors ask taxpayers to further support unsustainable staffing levels, employee salaries,
benefits, and bloated pension costs.

Furthermore, another tax increase will not only drive more purchases to Internet businesses and
away from local businesses, further hurting the local economy, but it will hurt those on fixed
incomes the hardest, i.e. the poor, the elderly, the disabled, and the retired.

Our County government clearly has a spending problem. Giving them more revenue will not fix
that problem. We taxpayers can't live beyond our means and neither should our government. Tell
them to be responsible by voting NO on Measure A.

Vote NO on the Santa Clara County Sales Tax increase. <againstend>





<againstsigs> For more information: http://www.svtaxpayers.org/santaclara
/s/ John W.S. Roeder

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association
/s/ Edward Leo Wimmers
Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
/s/ Brian Holtz

President, Purissima Hills Water District
/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle

Board Member: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/ Matthew R. Mahood President & CEO, San Jose Silicon Valley Chamber <againstsigsend>





<rebutagainst> Rebuttal to Arguments Against

Even Measure A's opponents admit the County has faced deep losses in revenues.

What they don't admit is that the men and women who work for the County have voluntarily
accepted $75 million in wage and benefit cuts in order to protect vital services for our
community. That's right. They voluntarily agreed to the cuts...without lawsuits or confrontations.
Unfortunately, the pressure from Washington and Sacramento to reduce essential local services
has increased. That's why we need Measure A.

We can't do without 24 hour Emergency rooms and Trauma Centers. These services save lives
and prevent disability.

No one knows when we might need the special programs at the Valley Medical Center Bum Unit
or the Spinal Rehabilitation Unit or the intensive care unit for infants. When tragedy strikes
unexpectedly, we'll be grateful that Measure A helped keep these units operational.

Yesterday, the paper reported two more homicides in what used to be safe neighborhoods. We
can't reduce law enforcement staff if we want to maintain public safety.

Our children depend on us. Thousands receive their health coverage through the Children's
Health Initiative. Through Measure A we can prevent cuts to this effective program - which is
renowned for helping kids stay well and stay in school.

Measure A provides revenues for our local priorities. These funds can never be taken by the
state.

Vote Yes on Measure A. By working together we can keep Santa Clara County a safe and
healthy place to live, work, and raise a family. <rebutagainstend>



<rebutagainstsigs> /s/ Joan P. Smith

Chief Nursing Officer, Santa Clara Valley Medical Center (retired)

/s/ Ngai Nguyen

MD, Cardiologist

/s/ George M. Shirakawa

Santa Clara County Supervisor

/s/ Dana C. Ditmore

President, Oak Valley Consulting, Inc.

/s/ Reymundo C. Espinoza

CEO, Gardner Family Health Network <rebutagainstsigsend>

