CITY OF LA MIRADA

AFFIDAVIT OF POSTING

I, Anne Haraksin, certify that I caused to be posted the following document in the
areas designated for posting on July 25, 2012:

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF LA MIRADA ESTABLISHING A TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, AND AMENDING TITLE 3
OF THE LA MIRADA MUNICIPAL CODE

ORDINANCE NO. 654

Anne Haraksin, City Clerk

ORDINANCE NO. 654

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF LA MIRADA ESTABLISHING A TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, AND AMENDING TITLE 3
OF THE LA MIRADA MUNICIPAL CODE

A. Recitals.

(i)	The City of La Mirada could lose as much as $58 million as a result of
State actions eliminating California’s redevelopment agencies.

(ii)	The Great Recession reduced the City’s traditional revenue sources to a
level insufficient to maintain the programs, services, and capital
improvement projects at the level necessary to meet current and future
needs without significant cuts.

(iii)	A recent engineering study of La Mirada’s infrastructure identified
$67,250,193 in costs for infrastructure needs, such as repairing major
roads, neighborhood streets, and fixing potholes.

(iv)	In response to State actions eliminating redevelopment agencies and the
lingering effects of the Great Recession, the La Mirada City Council
unanimously declared a fiscal emergency on February 14, 2012.

(v)	The Citizen Task Force on City Finances and Operations reviewed the
challenges impacting La Mirada, and determined the City must act to
repair infrastructure, maintain services, and enhance local control of
revenues.

(vi)	Subject to provisions of State law, the City is permitted to levy a tax on
transactions and uses of tangible personal property within the City.

(vii)	The City desires to impose such a tax for the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail within the City, to be deposited into the City’s
General Fund to help defray the costs of general city services and
expenses.

B. Ordinance.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of La Mirada does hereby
ordain as follows:

Ordinance No. 654

Section 1. A new Chapter 3.10 (Transactions and Use Tax) is hereby added to
Title 3 (Revenue and Finance) of the La Mirada Municipal Code to read as follows:

“3.10.010 Short title.

This ordinance shall be known as the City of La Mirada Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance. The City of La Mirada hereinafter shall be called ’City.’ This ordinance
shall be applicable to all incorporated territory of the City.

3.10.020	Operative date.

’Operative Date’ means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

3.10.030	Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting
the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the
cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of recordkeeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

3.10.040	Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incidental to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City has not contracted with the
State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract
and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

2

Ordinance No. 654

3.10.050	Transactions tax rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one
percent (1.0%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.10.060	Place of sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of
the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.10.070	Use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative
date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate
of one percent (1.0%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of
the place to which delivery is made.

3.10.080	Adoption of provisions	of State law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

3.10.090	Limitations on adoption of State law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

(1)	The word ’State' is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

3

Ordinance No. 654

(A)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(B)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797, 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word 'City' shall be substituted for the word ’State' in the phrase
’retailer engaged in business in this State' in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

3.10.100	Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by
this ordinance.

3.10.110	Exemptions and exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county
in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside
the City shall be satisfied:

(A)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

(B)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

4

Ordinance No. 654

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the leaser is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under
a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to
the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract for lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City
or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	’A retailer engaged in business in the City’” shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

Ordinance No. 654

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.10.120	Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance.

3.10.130	Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any
officer of the Sate or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of
tax required to be collected.

3.10.140	Citizens Oversight Committee.

Prior	to the operative date, the City	Council	shall	(a) adopt	a	resolution

establishing	the composition of a committee	of	no	more	than five	(5)	residents	of

La Mirada to review and report on the revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax
adopted by this Chapter, (b) defining the scope of the committee’s responsibilities, and

(c)	appointing at least a quorum of the members of the committee.

3.10.150	Annual independent audits.

The City shall ensure that annual independent audits are conducted to account
for the tax revenues received and expenditures made in relation to the one percent
(1.0%) transaction and use tax. Such audits will be provided to the Citizens Oversight
Committee for their review.

3.10.160	Termination date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the fifth
(5th) anniversary of the last day of the calendar quarter following the operative date.”

Section 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase
or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason deemed or held to be invalid by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portion of this Ordinance. The City Council of the City of La Mirada
hereby declares that it would have adopted this Ordinance and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more of the sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions might
subsequently be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

6

Ordinance No. 654

Section 3. This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of the
voters voting thereon, and, if approved, shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is
declared by the City Council.

Section 4. The City Clerk shall certify this passage and shall cause this
Ordinance to be posted in three (3) public places within the City of La Mirada within
fifteen (15) days after its passage in the manner prescribed in Resolution 03-01.

I, Anne Haraksin, City Clerk of the City of La Mirada, do hereby certify that the foregoing
Ordinance was introduced at a regular meeting of the City of the City of La Mirada held
on the 10th day of July, 2012, and was finally passed at a regular meeting of the City
Council of the City of La Mirada held on the 24th day of July, 2012.

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 24th day of July

Gabriel P. Garcia, Mayor

ATTEST:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Deal,	Jones,	Mowles,	Mayor	Pro	Tem	De	Ruse,

Mayor Garcia

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

Anne Haraksin, City Clerk

7