<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE “C”

BY PLUMAS COUNTY COUNSEL

State law authorizes the Plumas County Board of
Supervisors, upon approval of a majority of the voting
electorate, to impose a tax on those who, for a period
of up to 30 da^S, occupy a room or rooms or other living
space in a hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, or
other lodging. This tax is called a transient occupancy
tax, and is commonly referred to as a “hotel tax” or “bed
tax.” It is collected by operators of short-term lodging
facilities from the tourists and other individuals who stay
in those facilities for 30 or fewer days and is deposited
with the County Treasurer. The transient occupancy tax
does not apply to certain classes of lodgings, such as
state campgrounds, an owner-occupied time share, or
facilities operated by a local government entity.

The Plumas County Code currently imposes a transient
occupancy tax rate in the amount of nine percent (9%)
of the rent charged by an operator of short-term lodging,
such as hotels and motels. This transient occupancy
tax applies solely to the unincorporated portions of
Plumas County. The proposed measure would amend
the Plumas County Code to temporarily increase the
transient occupancy tax rate by two percent (2%). The
increase in the transient occupancy tax rate would be
effective as of January 1, 2013, and would expire after
December 31, 2016. On January 1, 2017, the transient
occupancy tax rate would return to nine percent (9%).
Funds received from the transient occupancy tax are
deposited into the County general fund and may be used
for any lawful purpose to support County services and
functions.

A “YES” vote on this measure is in favor of temporarily
increasing the existing transient occupancy tax rate from
nine percent (9%) to eleven percent (11 %) for the period
beginning January 1, 2013 and ending December 31,
2016.

A “NO” vote on this measure opposes the increase and
is for keeping the transient occupancy tax rate at nine
percent (9%).

This measure passes if a majority of those voting on the
measure vote “yes.” <impartialend>





<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Plumas County’s Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT),
commonly called the “hotel tax” is paid by those who
rent motel rooms and vacation homes, mainly tourists.
The current TOT is 9% and has not been changed in
21 years. This measure would change the TOT to 11%.
At current room and occupancy rates, this measure is
estimated to contribute an additional $240,000 per year
to the General Fund.

The General Fund pays for county services such as
public safety and emergency services.

Decreasing property values in Plumas County has had a
severe impact on the General Fund. Current 2012/2013
fiscal year projections are for General Fund revenues
to decrease significantly. One of the ways to continue
supporting County services is to temporarily increase the
Transient Occupancy Tax that will be predominately paid
by visitors to our County, with little to no financial impact
on local residents. Measure C is a temporary increase
that will automatically default to 9% after 4 years.

Plumas County needs revenues to continue providing
services and programs the community expects. The TOT
is a beneficial way to produce new revenue from tourists,
visitors, and business travelers who use County services.
Please help ensure the revenue that’s raised here stays
here - vote YES on Measure C!

The undersigned authors of the Argument in Favor of
Measure C at the General Election for the County of
Plumas to be held on November 6, 2012 hereby state
that the argument is true and correct to the best of their
knowledge and belief. <favorend>



<favorsigs> /s/ Robert Meacher, Chair, Plumas County Board of
Supervisors

/s/ Terry Swofford, Vice Chair Plumas County Board of
Supervisors

/s/ Sherrie Thrall, Plumas County Board of Supervisors
/s/ Lori Simpson, Plumas County Board of Supervisors
/s/ Jon Kennedy, Plumas County Board of Supervisors

/s/ R. Craig Settlemire,

County Counsel, Plumas County		<favorsigsend>



NO ARGUMENT	AGAINST MEASURE C WAS SUBMITTED




