YES

NO

ORDINANCE NO, 1085

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HOLLISTER EXTENDING THE 1 % TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR GENERAL PURPOSES TO
CONTINUE TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

“Shall an ordinance be approved enacting a one percent (1%) sales tax for the purpose of funding genera! city services,
such as police, fire safety, gang intervention and prevention, recreation programs, and street and parks maintenance,
that will automatically expire five years after its operative date and that will require annua! review and public report on
revenues and expenditures by an independent citizens' oversight committee?”

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 7285.9 and 7290, the City of Hollister (the "City") has the authority to levy
a Transactions and Use Tax for general purposes;

WHEREAS, a majority of the voters of the City approved a one percent (1 %) Transactions and Use Tax at an election held on November 6, 2007;
WHEREAS, the City's Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance (the “Ordinance”) is found in Chapter 3.30 of Title 3 of the City's Municipal Code;
WHEREAS, Section 3,30.160 of the Ordinance sets forth a "Termination Date" of five years from the Operative Date of the Ordinance, or March 30,
2013, at which time the authority to levy the tax will expire unless an extension or re-authorization is approved by the voters of the City at an election
called for that purpose; and

WHEREAS, an extension or re-authorization of the City’s Transactions and Use Tax will be submitted to the voters on November 6, 2012, to extend
the "Termination Date" of Section 3.30.160 to March 31, 2018.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HOLLISTER ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Findings. The people of the City of Hollister hereby find as follows:

1.	The sales and use tax commonly referred to as “Measure T will sunset on March 30,2013, resulting in a reduction of approximately

three million dollars ($3,000,000) per year to the City’s General Fund.

2.	Approximately 67% of the City’s General Fund Budget is used for public safety (police, fire, and animal control services). .

3,	In order to offset the loss in “Measure T” revenue, the City adopted an austerity plan on March 19, 2012, to be implemented over three

years to structurally balance the General Fund Budget.

4,	Included in the austerity plan are severe reductions to City services including the elimination of 6 sworn police officers and 2 non-sworn

police personnel, 7 sworn fire personnel, 2 animal control personnel, and 3 non-safety personnel.

ORDINANCE NO. 1085 (Continued)

5. Reductions in service wiii include elimination of the Detective Bureau in the Police Department, closure of the second Fire Station,
reduction of animals held in the Animal Control Shelter to the minimum extent required by law, elimination of parks maintenance
except for to protect health and safety, and reduction in the number of recreation programs for youth and adults.

Section 2. Amendment of Code. Section 3.30.030 entitled "Operative Date” is amended to replace the date “April 1,2008” with the date “April 1,
2013.”

Section 3.30.160 entitled Termination Date” is replaced in its entirety with the following: “The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Chapter shall
expire five (5) years from the Operative Date, or on March 31,2018.”

Section 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance, following its approval by a two-third (2/3) majority of the City Council and its publication, shall become
effective upon the approval of the tax imposed hereunder by a majority of the voters of the City voting thereon at the election to be held on
November 6, 2012. The “Operative Date" of the tax imposed hereunder shall be as provided in Section 3.30.030.

Section 4. Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof io any person or circumstance is held invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or other circumstances shall not be
affected thereby, The voters of the City of Hollister hereby declare that they would have adopted each and every provision of this ordinance
regardless of the invalidity of any other provision.

Section 5. Codification. Upon adoption of this ordinance pursuant to the voter approval referenced in Section 3, the City Cierk, in consultation with
the City Attorney, is hereby authorized and directed to codify this ordinance in the Hollister Municipal Code.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 21st day of May, 2012, by a two-thirds vote of the City Council, by the following vote:

AYES: Council Members Emerson, Valdivia, Scattini, Gomez, and Mayor Friend.

NOES: None.

ABSTAINED: None.

ABSENT: None,

ATTEST:

GERI JOHNSON, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
STEPHANIE ATIGH, City Attorney

APPROVED:

Raymond Friend, Mayor

A “Yes” vote on Measure E will extend measure T’s one percent (1 %) transactions and use tax generally known as a sales tax, for five
years. Measure T is codified as Hollister Municipal Code Chapter 3.30.

Measure T was approved in 2007 by the voters of the City of Hollister to be in effect for five (5) years, from April 1, 2008, until March 31,
2013, when Measure I will automatically expire. When Measure T expires, revenue to the City of Hollister will be reduced by approximately three
million dollars ($3,000,000) per year.

Measure E amends two sections of Hollister Municipal Code Chapter 3.30. Those two changes are the start date for the tax which is April
1,2013, and the end date for the tax which is March 31; 2018. Other than its effective dates, Measure E is identical to Measure T.

Consistent with current Hollister Municipal Code Chapter 3.30, Measure E’s transaction and use tax will continue to be collected in the
same way as the current sales tax on the sale of tangible personal property sold at retail and on the storage, use, or other consumption of tangible
persona! property purchased from any retailer in the City limits.

As stated in Hollister Chapter 3.30, Measure E will continue to impose a general tax, as opposed to a special tax. Revenues from Measure
E will be deposited into the City’s general fund to be used by the City for any city operation or service, including but not limited to, poiice and fire
protection, graffiti removal, school resource officer, gang intervention, and park and street maintenance.

Under Measure E, the City Council must appoint a citizens’ oversight committee to review and report to the public annually on all Measure
E tax expenditures.

To become law, Measure E must be approved by a majority (50% plus one vote) of the voters in the City of Hollister voting in this election.

Dated: July 30,2012

STEPHANIE ATIGH, City Attorney

A "yes” vote on Measure E will continue Hollister’s one percent sales tax to avoid further reductions to vital city services, such as law enforcement,
fire protection and animal control.

No one likes to pay more taxes, but Measure E is not a tax increase. It is five-year extension of the existing Measure T sales tax, which expires April
2013. All of the money stays in Hollister; not one cent goes to Sacramento,

The one percent sales tax is needed to cover budget gaps caused by the City’s plunging revenues from sales and property taxes. Hollister is not
alone in this financial situation; other cities and counties are faced with severe budget deficits.

The City Council has prepared itself by recently adopting an austerity plan should Measure E fail. Here is portion of what will happen if Measure E
does not pass. The community will lose 6 police officers, 2 non-sworn safety personnel, 7 firefighters and 2 animal control officers. Hollister will close
one of its two fire stations, eliminate the detective bureau, and severely limit animal control functions. Recreation programs will be reduced, and all
park restrooms will be closed.

You have a choice. Measure E is the only alternative to the austerity plan by raising funds to maintain current city service levels. Additionally, an
independent citizens oversight committee will report regularly to our City Council and will monitor Measure E expenditures.

This is your home and the choice is yours. Will you invest one-percent to maintain vital city services? Neither the state nor federal government can
bail us out. Let’s take our destiny in our own hands. With Measure E we keep our monies local to do what is important to us as a community.

Support our city. Vote “Yes" on Measure E.

Signed: RAYMOND FRIEND, Mayor, City of Hollister

RITA M, BOWLING, Retired Member, San Benito County Board of Supervisors
DAVID ANDERSON, President Hollister Peace Officers Association
JIM PAXTON, Attomey-at-Law
BRIAN MALANDRONE

Date: July 30, 2012

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Measure E is about our economic vitality, not public safety,

Sales taxes from Measure T the last five years made a tough economic time worse. Failed economic development policies and practices by City Hall
caused the fall in revenues; they are now asking tax payers to bail them out AGAIN - Vote NOI

Sales taxes impact senior citizens, low and fixed income people the most - taking from our seniors, retirees, workers and families and paying
general City bills, The authors of the “Arguments For” have big pensions, big land and big incomes, they shop out of town. We’ve lost jobs and local
business. Extending the sales tax makes it harder to get these back.

City Hail is threatening OUR Police, Fire and Animal Control with “austerity”. What we need is a City Hall that creates economic growth and jobs for
our people, Do not let them scare you with threats of reductions; plans can and should be changed. Tel! City Hall you want jobs and economic
progress - not threats.

The Hollister Firefighters Union voted not to support the extension of the current Measure T sales tax.

You do have a choice: to save money, help your family, our community and improve our economy - vote NO.

Favor de votar NO en ia boleta E. Los impuestos danan nuestra. Nuestra communidad: familias de bajos ingresos y ancianos con ingresos fijos.
Gracias por su voto NO.

Save our City - Vote NO.

Signed: J. WARREN BELL, II, Truck and Auto Salesman

BETTY WELCH, Volunteer School Grandmother
SARA BARABY, Single Mother of Twins
OSCAR RIVERA. Fixed Income Retiree
JOE G. HUERTA, Mechanic
Date; August 10, 2012

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

We should not balance Hollister’s budget by making it harder for low income and senior residents to balance their own. General sales taxes hurt our
local economy and are not spent in specified ways. Worse, local sales taxes put the burden on the poor, retirees and working women, More and
more household bread winners are women; don’t put this added burden on them.

Why you should vote NO:

Sales taxes are not used for public safety but for general city expenses - We know this from Measure T - Promises of changes in how the City
operates were broken, do not reward broken promises. Fool me once shame on you, fool me twice shame on me!

Sales taxes impact our lower income families and fixed income seniors proportionally the most

Sales taxes negatively impact our small businesses and kill jobs.

High income people will have little impact from a sales tax and often shop outside of town and pay tax in other cities.

Example of impact to you: gasoline in Hollister will drop 3 cents a gallon, the cost of a new car would drop by up to $500. Defeat Measure E.

Middle income households need help to. A family wanting a new fuel efficient minivan could pay up to $500 more if Measure E passes.

A YES on State Proposition 30 and No on Measure E makes sense. Proposition 30 guarantees local public safety services realigned from state to
local government. Measure E guarantees nothing,

The Hollister Fire Department Union has voted to oppose the proposed extension of the 1 percent Measure T sales tax on the November ballot -
Join the Union in voting NO on Measure E.

No on Measure E is opposed by a local union, business people and voters.

Singed: J, WARREN BELL, II
Date: July 31, 2012

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN OPPOSITION TO MEASURE E

Measure E is the only tax measure on your ballot that guarantees that 100% of its funds will stay in Hollister. A sales tax is a fair tax for everyone. If
you spend less, you pay less in sales tax. There is no sales tax on necessities such as groceries and prescriptions.

Measure E only extends your current sales tax rate; it doesn’t increase it.

Opponents are wrong in saying that the City misused Measure T money. Measure T money was used to maintain police, fire, animal control, and
recreation services in a failing economy. Opponents give you no alternative to prevent the elimination of these services if Measure E fails.

Opponents are wrong in saying that Measure E does not support public safety. Measure E funds will go directly into the City’s General Fund, 2/3 of
which is spent on police and fire services. The other 1/3 of the General Fund is spent on city services including parks, recreation and streets.

Opponents are wrong in saying that Measure E wili kili jobs and hurt small businesses. Businesses don’t pay sales tax - their customers do, When
Hollister residents shop in neighboring towns, such as Gilroy, the pay more in safes tax (8.375%) than in Hollister.

Opponents are wrong in saying that Hollister Fire Fighters Union opposes Measure E.

Measure E is supported by a broad base of law enforcement, local businesses, and neighborhood groups.

Vote Yes on Measure E. For more information, go to www.measure-e.com

Signed: JAIME DE LA CRUZ, San Benito County Supervisor
HELEN ROSS, Animal Shelter Volunteer
DOLLY DEVASIER, President, Jovenes De Antano
ALAN LITTLEJOHN, Measure “T” Oversite Member
N. GRAHAM MACKIE, San Benito County Business Council

Date: August 8,2012