
	

<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A-1

ANALYSIS BY THE COUNTY COUNSEL OF AN ALAMEDA COUNTY SPECIAL PARCEL TAX

MEASURE TO SUPPORT THE OAKLAND ZOO

Measure A-1 seeks voter approval to authorize an annual special parcel tax on each
parcel of taxable real property following adoption of the measure until December 31,2037. The
tax will fund certain services and projects at the Oakland Zoo (“Zoo”).

The authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on
special tax measures is pursuant to Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and sections
23027 and 50075 of the California Government Code.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the County
of Alameda (“County”) will impose a special tax on all parcels of taxable real property annually.
The tax rates will be as follows: $12.00 (twelve dollars) per parcel for single family residential
and multi-family residential parcels, and $72.00 (seventy-two dollars) per parcel for
nonresidential parcels. For purposes of this special parcel tax, the County will levy the tax on
each parcel of real property that receives a separate ad valorem tax bill.

The Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector will collect the tax at the same time and in
the same manner as ad valorem property taxes. Certain exemptions are available to any parcel
owned and occupied by individuals 67 years of age or over or to any owner whose combined
family income qualifies as “low income” under federal law. All property that is otherwise exempt
from ad valorem property taxes by state law shall also be exempt from this tax.

If the measure passes, the funding revenue will be used for the specific services and
projects at the Zoo as set forth in the full text of the measure and expenditure plan printed in this
sample ballot pamphlet. Some of those purposes include: providing for animal care; providing
educational and conservation programs; maintaining, operating, and improving existing facilities;
and maintaining and improving visitor services. The measure further provides that the monies
collected shall be accounted for separately and expended only for those specified purposes.

The measure provides for an independent citizens’ oversight committee and revenue and
expenditure reports.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the County will not be authorized to levy the special tax outlined above. <impartialend> 




<impartialsigs> DONNA R. ZIEGLER
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<favor> Argument in Favor of Measure A1

The animals at the Oakland Zoo need your help! Vote YES on A1 to give Oakland Zoo animals the quality,
humane care they deserve.

YES on A1 cares for and meets the basic needs of Zoo animals:

•	YES on A1 ensures animals are safe and enclosures well maintained

•	YES on A1 provides animals food, heating/cooling, and clean, fresh watering systems

•	Yes on A1 repairs aging animal shelters and deteriorating sewage/drainage systems, some of
which are 40+ years old

•	YES on A1 retains quality veterinarians to care for sick and aging animals

YES on A1 supports the Zoo's work with wildlife conservation and animal rescue organizations, saving
animals wounded in the wild. YES on A1 gives sanctuary to endangered species, such as the California
Condor; retired circus animals, including lions, tigers and elephants; and animals rescued from abuse.

Measure A1 is endorsed by leading conservation organizations including Ventana Wildlife Society,
Felidae Conservation Fund and Bay Area Puma Project.

The Oakland Zoo educates children about wildlife and nature in a way that just isn't possible through
books. More than 200,000 Alameda County children visited the Zoo last year.

YES on A1 doubles the number of school children served by the Zoo at a time when local schools are
cutting science programs and field trips.

•	YES on A1 maintains children's educational programs/school field trips

•	YES on A1 provides science/nature education to students who often have none in schools

Measure A1 requires strict fiscal accountability, including independent financial audits, citizens
oversight, and an Expenditure Plan to ensure funds are spent as promised. Low-income seniors are
exempt.

At only $1 per month, veterinarians, teachers, and Alameda County families agree YES on A1 is a small
price to pay to protect Zoo educational programs and ensure animals receive quality, humane care.

Visit: www.ItsYourZoo.org. <favorend>






<against> Vote NO on this measure. Even if you love the zoo, this tax is bad public policy,
creating an open checkbook for zoo executives to use for virtually any zoo
expense. It forces Alameda County taxpayers to pay at least $112 million in
Oakland Zoo bills over the next 25 years.

The zoo already takes in millions in public funding, including city funds, hotel taxes,
Regional Park District funds, bonds money and a State Parks grant. But zoo
executives want more- to build a “supersized” expansion project in unspoiled
Knowland Park, Oakland’s largest and biologically richest park, paving over
threatened wildlife habitat and rare native plant communities.

The Sierra Club and other environmental groups opposed the controversial
Knowland Park expansion. Now zoo executives say they won’t use these funds for
it. But loopholes explicitly written into this tax measure give the zoo carte
blanche to spend the funds for “constructing” and “expanding”-or to add
projects later.

Even if not used to build zoo executives’ expansion with its bay view offices,
the taxes free up other funds for this. So, while the public may think it's voting to
create humane conditions for captive animals, there’s no guarantee they aren't
unwittingly voting to fund extensive environmental damage in Knowland Park and
destruction of threatened native wildlife habitat.

Zoo executives now claim they haven’t enough money to care for the animals they
already have, while planning to spend multi-millions on a big expansion. When
governments are struggling to cover basic services and programs, is this top
priority? It just doesn’t add up.

Show zoo executives and politicians that you want honest dialogue about public
spending priorities that includes protecting native wildlife habitat AND caring
for cherished zoo animals. Please vote NO on Measure A1! More info:
www.saveknowland.org <againstend>





<favorsigs> Argument In Favor of Measure A1

Signers

1.	Nate Miley

President, Alameda County Board of Supervisors

2.	Joel J. Parrott

Veterinarian, Executive Director, Oakland Zoo

3.	Sheila Jordan

Alameda County Superintendent of Schools

4.	Judith Cox

Government Accountability and Transparency Advocate

5.	Caleb Cheung

Recipient of Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching <favorsigsend>





<againstsigs> Argument Against Measure A1
Signers

1.	Laura Baker

East Bay Chapter of the California Native Plant Society

2.	Ruth E. Malone

Co-Chair, Friends of Knowland Park

3.	Jim Hanson

President, California Native Grasslands Association

4.	Jeff Miller

Director, Alameda Creek Alliance

5.	Elizabeth Baker <againstsigsend>





<rebutagainst> Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure A1

Did the opponents even bother to read the official ballot language? Vote YES on A1—the money is legally
required to be spent on Humane Animal Care! Read the official wording yourself in your voter handbook.

FACT: Measure Al’s Expenditure Plan specifies that ALL funds must be spent as promised to taxpayers, for
the following purposes:

•	Quality Humane Animal Care

•	Basic Animal Needs

•	Educational Programs for Children

•	Maintaining Zoo Affordability/Visitor Safety

FACT: Measure A1 requires an Independent Citizens Oversight Committee to ensure funds are spent as
promised to you, the taxpayer. By law, the A1 Oversight Committee must include Conservation/Environmental
and Animal Rights representatives, the League of Women Voters, Taxpayer and Senior advocates, and a PTA
representative.

FACT: YES on A1 costs just $ 1/month - pennies a day - to give Oakland Zoo animals quality care.

“YES on A1 allows the Oakland Zoo to continue quality care for Zoo animals.”

-Jim Maddy, President/CEO, National Association of Zoos & Aquariums

“Oakland Zoo animals deserve quality care. Many are retired circus animals or animals rescued from abuse -
YES on A1 ensures more animals can be rescued and get the care they need.”

-Laura Maloney, Chief Operating Officer, Humane Society of the United States
and Pat Derby, Co-Director, Performing Animal Welfare Society (PAWS)

“YES on A1 supports the Oakland Zoo’s wildlife conservation and animal rescue efforts, saving animals
wounded in the wild and giving sanctuary to endangered species.” <rebutagainstend> 

-Ron Kagan, Founding Member, Center for Zoo Animal Welfare

Join us: www.itsvourzoo.com <rebutagainstend>





<rebutfavor> Measure A1 sounds good —who doesn’t support animal welfare and education? But
there are troubling provisions in this measure you might want to check out for yourself.

First, the measure lumps in so many spending options that there’s no requirement the
money will go for what the ballot summary says it will. In fact, it specifically lets zoo
executives delete items and spend the money for other things, including expanding,
constructing and financing new facilities —allowing them to direct parcel taxes to their
proposed new big expansion that would put a three-story visitor center, restaurant, gift
shop and bay view offices atop rare wildlife and plant habitat in Knowland Park.

Second, the public can’t ever amend the measure, except to extend or increase
taxes—no matter how bad economic conditions get. Low-income senior citizens
would have to file for an exemption directly with the zoo operator each and every
year. And the zoo is run by a private nonprofit corporation with no publicly elected
representatives and isn’t required to follow California’s open records and meetings laws.

There are many other needs right now that are higher priority. Schools, libraries,
and government services for the needy require money, too. We can’t afford everything.
Zoo executives need to live within their means like the rest of us.

This election offers a real choice between something very costly—in dollars and
environmental losses--and something priceless: defending Knowland Park’s ecological
treasures and good public policy. Vote No on Measure A1! www.saveknowland.org <rebutfavorend>




<rebutagainstsigs> Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure A1
Signers

1.	Dr. Kim R. Carlson

Veterinarian/President, Alameda County Veterinary Medical Association

2.	Betty Yee

Board of Equalization, Member

3.	Dr. Joel Parrott
Veterinarian/Executive Director, Oakland Zoo

4.	Judith Cox

Government Accountability and Transparency Advocate

5.	Gary Twitchell

Knowland Park Neighbor and lifetime Sierra Club member <rebutagainstsigsend>






<rebutfavorsigs> Rebuttal to Argument In Favor Measure A1
Signers

1.	Laura Baker

Committee Member, East Bay Chapter of the California Native Plant Society

2.	Ruth E. Malone

Co-Chair, Friends of Knowland Park

3.	Jeff Miller

Director, Alameda Creek Alliance

4.	Jim Hanson

President, California Native Grasslands Association

5.	Elizabeth Baker <rebutfavorsigsend>





<resolution> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A1

AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 2.30
TO TITLE 2 OF THE ALAMEDA COUNTY ORDINANCE CODE
TO ESTABLISH A SPECIAL TAX TO SUPPORT THE OAKLAND ZOO

WHEREAS, the Oakland Zoo is a regional, cultural attraction that thousands of
children and families from all over Alameda County visit and enjoy; and

WHEREAS, the Zoo hosts more than 660,000 visitors annually and has 25,000
household (70,000 individual) members, nearly two-thirds of whom are from Alameda
County; and

WHEREAS, animals in the Zoo deserve quality humane care, the Zoo must
maintain the ability to meet the basic needs of the animals, which includes providing
food, heating/cooling, clean and fresh watering systems, and repairing and maintaining
aging animal shelters; and

WHEREAS, it is essential that the Zoo retain specialists to adequately care for
sick and aging animals at its veterinary hospital, as most animals live significantly longer
in a zoo than they might in the wild, creating unique veterinary care needs; and

WHEREAS, one of the essential missions of the Zoo is to educate children and
youth about wildlife, life science, and nature in a way that is not possible through books,
and approximately 350,000 children and youth participate in the Zoo's educational
programs annually, with more than 70% of the Zoo's educational programs delivered to
Alameda County residents; and

WHEREAS, with continuing State cuts to education, the Zoo must maintain
affordable and accessible education programs, including school field trips for children
who are already underserved by budget cuts in Alameda County schools; and

WHEREAS, additional funding is necessary to meet current and anticipated
facility maintenance, repair and upgrade needs, in that some of the Zoo’s drainage and
plumbing systems are over 40 years old, seismic upgrades may be warranted, and
lighting and electrical systems need improvements for energy efficiency and added
safety; and

WHEREAS, investments in the Zoo allow it to partner with wildlife conservation
and animal rescue organization to help save, protect and care for vulnerable wildlife,
including giving sanctuary to endangered species such as the California Condor and
retired circus animals; and

WHEREAS, the amount of revenue available to the Zoo from existing revenue
sources is inadequate to meet the costs of providing for the advancement of humane
animal care and veterinary treatment programs, maintenance of quality animal and
visitor services, including children/youth educational and wildlife preservation programs,
and repairing and improving Zoo enclosures and facilities; and

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A1

WHEREAS, this special tax will provide the Zoo with necessary additional
funding to continue to provide and maintain quality programs and services to visitors
from throughout Alameda County, including but not limited to:

•	Meeting the basic needs of the animals, including food, heating and cooling,
and clean, fresh watering systems.

•	Ensuring animals are safe and enclosures are well maintained, with natural
and humane conditions.

•	Providing essential medical care to sick and aging animals.

•	Upgrading, repairing, and replacing the Zoo’s deteriorating sewage, drainage
and plumbing systems, and making important lighting and electrical system
improvements for energy efficiency and safety.

•	Continuing to offer educational programs and school field trips for children
who are already underserved by budget cuts in Alameda County schools.

•	Maintaining the veterinary hospital and skilled animal healthcare providers.

•	Providing important science and nature education to school children who
often have none in public schools.

•	Keeping entrance fees affordable for all Zoo visitors.

•	Ensuring Zoo visitor safety.

•	Continuing to work with wildlife conservation and animal rescue organizations
to provide Zoo care for animals wounded in the wild and sanctuary to
endangered species such as the California Condor or retired circus animals;
and

WHEREAS, the special tax imposed by this Chapter is authorized by Article XIIIA
of the California Constitution and sections 23027 and 50075 of the California
Government Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE COUNTY
OF ALAMEDA THAT: <resolutionend>




<full> SECTION I

Chapter 2.30, entitled “The OAKLAND ZOO HUMANE ANIMAL CARE/EDUCATION
PROTECTION MEASURE,” and consisting of Sections 2.30.010 to 2.30.080 of Title 2 of
the Alameda County Ordinance Code is hereby added as follows:

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A1

Section 2.30.010. Definitions.

A.	“Fund” means the Oakland Zoo Fund created pursuant to Section 2.30.030.

B.	“Multi-family residential parcel” means all parcels that are improved with more than
one residential unit.

C.	“Nonresidential parcel” means all parcels that are improved with uses other than
residences.

D.	“Oakland Zoo” or “Zoo” means the zoological park known as the Oakland Zoo,
owned by the City of Oakland and located in Knowland Park in the City of Oakland. At
the time of adoption of this Chapter, the Zoo is operated by the East Bay Zoological
Society pursuant to a management agreement with the City of Oakland.

E.	“Oakland Zoo Special Tax” and “special tax” mean the tax authorized and imposed
pursuant to Section 2.30.020.

F.	“Occupant” means the person or persons who rent, lease, reside in, or otherwise
occupy real property located within Alameda County.

G.	“Owner” means the owner or owners of the real property located within Alameda
County.

H.	“Services and Projects” mean the operations of the Oakland Zoo, including but not
limited to acquisition of, caring for, and publicly displaying animals, deployment of
appropriate personnel, and maintaining, operating, and improving existing facilities;
providing and supporting educational and conservation programs involving, without
limitation, animals, native habitats, and nature, as well as other Zoo-related programs;
community outreach; constructing, expanding, remodeling, renovating, furnishing,
equipping, or financing of facilities; keeping visitor fees affordable; and maintaining and
improving visitor services. Financing the construction of new or renovation of existing
Oakland Zoo capital facilities is within the definition of services and projects. The Zoo
operator may use special tax funds to provide services anywhere in Alameda County,
but may not use them for programs and projects outside of Alameda County. Services
and projects are more fully defined in the Expenditure Plan approved by the voters of
Alameda County as part of approving the Oakland Zoo Special Tax.

I.	“Single-family residential parcel” means all parcels which are improved with only one
residential unit.

J.	“Zoo operator” means the operator of the Oakland Zoo. The East Bay Zoological
Society is currently the Zoo operator pursuant to a management agreement with the
City of Oakland.


Section 2.30.020. Oakland Zoo Special Tax.

A.	A special tax in the amounts set forth below is hereby imposed on every parcel of
real property within Alameda County.

B.	The tax constitutes a debt owed by the Owner of each parcel to the County.

C.	The County shall levy and collect the tax on each parcel of real property within
Alameda County for which the Owner receives a separate ad valorem property tax bill,
at the same time and manner, and subject to the same penalties and procedures as ad
valorem property taxes collected by the County except as otherwise set forth in this
ordinance.

D.	Tax Rates.

1.	The tax rates for each property type shall be as set forth in the table below. The
Zoo operator shall be responsible for assigning a tax rate for each parcel.

PARCEL TYPE	ANNUAL TAX RATE
Single-Family Residential	$12 per parcel
Multi-Family Residential	$12 per parcel
Nonresidential	$72 per parcel

2.	If a parcel consists of both residential and nonresidential real property, the tax rate
shall be the rate for nonresidential parcels.

3.	The assessment roll data of the County Assessor as of January 1 of each year
shall be used to determine the actual use of each parcel of real property for purposes of
determining the tax hereunder.

E.	Real property otherwise wholly exempted from ad valorem tax by state law shall also
be exempted from any liability for the special tax imposed by this Chapter.

F.	The uses of all parcels of real property shall be determined according to the
assessment roll data of the Alameda County Tax Assessor. For parcels divided by Tax
Rate Area lines, the payment for the portion of the parcel within Alameda County shall
be calculated at the same rates as set forth above. For properties wholly within
Alameda County and divided by Tax Rate Area lines into multiple parcels, the property
shall be taxed as a single parcel at the rates set forth above.

G.	Vacant and agricultural parcels shall be exempt from the special tax.

H.	Pursuant to Article XII IB of the Constitution of the State of California and applicable
laws, the appropriations limit for the County of Alameda is hereby increased by the
aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this special tax for fiscal year 2013-14 and
each year thereafter.

I.	The County may establish rules that are necessary and desirable for implementation
of this Chapter.

J.	Single-family residential parcels shall be exempt from the applicable special tax if (1)
they are owned and occupied by at least one person who is aged 67 years or older as
of January 1 of the relevant tax year; (2) the combined family income of the owner from
all sources for the previous calendar year is at or below the income level qualifying as
"low income" for a family of such size under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act
of 1937, 42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 et seq. for each year; and (3) an application is filed
for the exemption no later than May 1 annually. Exemption applications shall be filed
with and processed by the Zoo operator or an administrator selected and retained by
the Zoo operator, subject to the approval of the County.

K.	The owner of an improved parcel that is unoccupied for at least six months of the
year shall receive a refund of any tax paid, provided an application is filed no later than
August 1 for the immediately preceding year for which a refund is sought. Refund
applications shall be filed with and processed by the Zoo operator or an administrator
selected and retained by the Zoo operator, subject to the approval of the County.

L.	Any person claiming a refund of the special tax for any reason not provided herein
shall first file a written claim, with the Zoo operator, or an administrator selected and
retained by the Zoo operator, subject to the approval of the County. The Zoo operator or
its retained administrator shall be responsible for processing and deciding all refund
claims. Such claim must be filed no later than one year after the tax is imposed. All
claims must be filed by the person who paid the tax or his or her guardian, conservator,
or the executor of his or her estate. No claim may be filed on behalf of other taxpayers
or a class of taxpayers. Filing of a claim shall be a condition precedent to legal action
against the County for a refund of the tax.

Section 2.30.030. The Oakland Zoo Fund.

The "Oakland Zoo Fund" ("Fund") is hereby created as a special revenue fund.

Proceeds from the Oakland Zoo Special Tax, including penalties and interest earned on
such proceeds, shall be deposited into the Fund for distribution pursuant to Section
2.30.050.

Section 2.30.040. Use of Oakland Zoo Special Tax Revenue.

A. Moneys in the Oakland Zoo Fund shall be used exclusively first, to pay for the costs
of the election necessary to enact this Chapter, then: to pay for the services and
projects of the Oakland Zoo, as defined in Section 2.30.010(H); to pay for all costs of
administering this Chapter by the Zoo operator; and to reimburse the County as
provided for in subdivision C of this Section. If this Chapter or the use of special tax
funds is legally challenged, special tax funds may be used to reimburse the County and

the Zoo operator for their costs of legal defense, including attorneys’ fees and other
expenses.

B.	Moneys in the Oakland Zoo Fund shall be distributed to the Zoo operator for the uses
listed in subdivision A of this Section as they are deposited into the Fund, after
deducting amounts necessary to reimburse the County, as provided for in subdivision C.

C.	The County shall be reimbursed from the Fund for the costs it incurs in relation to the
special tax as follows:

1.	One and seven tenths percent (1.7%) of the special tax proceeds for collection of
the special tax.

2.	For actual costs associated with the administration of the Fund, including, but not
limited to, disbursement of proceeds of the special tax.

3.	For actual costs associated with monitoring and enforcing compliance with this
Chapter, including, but not limited to, audit of uses and maintenance of use of the funds,
and any expenses, including attorney's fees, associated with any proceedings needed
to enforce the requirements of this Chapter.

4.	For actual costs, including attorneys' fees, associated with litigation in defense of
this Chapter or any other action that may be undertaken by the County to implement
this Chapter or use funds provided by this special tax.

Section 2.30.050. Accountability.

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1
and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the
special tax levied in accordance with this Chapter:

A.	A separate, special account, referred to as the Oakland Zoo Fund, shall be created,
as specified in Section 2.30.030, into which the proceeds of the special tax must be
deposited.

B.	The specific purposes of the special tax are for the funding of the Zoo’s services and
projects as defined in Section 2.30.10(H) and for related election, administration, and
legal fees as set forth in Section 2.30.040. The proceeds of the special tax shall be
applied only to these specific purposes.

C.	The Zoo operator shall comply with all of the following as conditions of receiving
moneys from the Oakland Zoo Fund:

1. The Zoo operator shall retain an independent auditor annually to prepare a report
that includes (a) the amounts collected and expended from the proceeds of the special

tax and (b) the use of moneys received from the Oakland Zoo Fund to pay for services
and projects authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special tax.

2.	The Zoo operator shall maintain the Zoo’s accreditation by the Association of
Zoos and Aquariums, or its nationally recognized successor.

3.	The Zoo operator shall hold harmless, defend and indemnify the County of
Alameda, its Board of Supervisors, employees, officers, and agents from and against
any and all claims, losses, damages, liabilities and expenses, including but not limited to
attorneys’ fees, arising out of the administration of the Zoo special tax, the Oakland Zoo
Fund, and this ordinance.

D.	In the event that the East Bay Zoological Society ceases to operate the Oakland
Zoo, the City of Oakland contracts with another entity for the operation of the Zoo, and
the City intends to use special tax moneys to support Zoo operations, the City shall
inform the County Administrator regarding the new operator selected prior to entering
into a new management agreement. Any new management agreement shall be
consistent with this Section 2.30.050. Compliance with this subdivision shall be a
prerequisite to the successor operator being eligible to receive special tax moneys to
support Zoo services and projects.

E.	Oversight Committee. To ensure that the revenue from the special tax is spent
responsibly and solely on the services and projects listed in Section 2.30.010(H) and for
the other purposes listed in Section 2.30.040, an Oversight Committee shall be formed
to perform the functions listed in this subsection. Members of the Oversight Committee
shall be appointed annually.

1. Oversight Committee Formation and Qualifications.

a.	The Oversight Committee shall consist of the following:

(1)	Two Alameda County residents appointed by the President of the Board of
Supervisors, one of whom shall represent the interests of taxpayers.

(2)	Two Alameda County residents appointed by the District 4 County
Supervisor, one of whom shall represent the interests of seniors and the
other of whom shall be a representative of a known
conservation/environmental nonprofit organization.

(3)	Two City of Oakland residents appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Oakland, one of whom shall be a public school teacher or a member of a
public school parent-teacher association.

(4)	One Alameda County resident appointed by the Alameda County Mayors
Conference, who shall be a representative of the League of Women
Voters.


(5)	Two Alameda County residents appointed by the board of trustees of the
Zoo operator, one of whom shall be a representative of the interests of
animal rights.

b.	Positions on the Oversight Committee shall be filled through an open
application process. In addition to the requirements listed in subsection (a) above,
members must be at least 18 years of age. Employees or officials of the City of Oakland
or County of Alameda shall not serve as Oversight Committee members.

c.	Upon their appointment and during their term of service, members of the
Oversight Committee shall be and remain residents of Alameda County and/or the City
of Oakland, depending upon which they were required to be at the time of appointment.
Should a member cease to be a County or City resident, that seat shall become vacant
and remain so until filled during the following annual appointment process.

Supervisorial and Mayoral appointees to the Oversight Committee shall serve at the
pleasure of their appointers.

2. Oversight Committee Organization and Duties.

a.	The Oversight Committee shall meet at least once annually on the day and
time established by resolution of the board of trustees of the Zoo operator. A simple
majority of members of the Oversight Committee who have been appointed shall
constitute a quorum. The Oversight Committee may act by a simple majority of a
quorum.

b.	The Oversight Committee is charged with the following responsibilities: (i)
reviewing the report prepared by the Zoo operator's auditor pursuant to section
2.30.050(C)(1) to ensure that special tax revenue is spent solely on the services and
projects listed in Section 2.30.010(H) and for the other purposes listed in Section
2.30.040; (ii) verifying that the Zoo remains accredited by the Association of Zoos and
Aquariums; (iii) verifying that the Zoo operator and the County of Alameda have
executed a valid indemnification agreement meeting the requirements of Section

2.30.050.C.3; and (iv) confirming (i), (ii), and (iii) in writing to the Board of Supervisors.

c.	The Oversight Committee's written confirmation prepared pursuant to
subdivision b above shall be forwarded to the Zoo operator and to the County
Administrator. The presentation of that report by the Zoo operator to the Board of
Supervisors shall satisfy the requirements of Government Code section 50075.3.

F.	If the Board of Supervisors determines that the Oakland Zoo has used, or is currently
using, moneys from the Oakland Zoo Fund in a manner that is not consistent with the
uses specified in Sections 2.30.020(H), then the Board of Supervisors may suspend
disbursements from the Fund. Suspension of disbursements may continue until the Zoo
operator spends funds from other sources on services and projects at an amount equal
to the amount determined to have been misspent. A determination of misspending shall
be based upon a report prepared by an independent auditor retained by the County,

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A1

taking into consideration the findings of the Oversight Committee.The County’s
reasonable costs of investigating misspending may be reimbursed from the Fund.

G.	If the Oakland Zoo ceases to operate, the special tax shall terminate automatically.
The special tax shall continue if the City of Oakland conveys the Zoo and its assets to
another public agency. That public agency shall be required to satisfy all of the Zoo
operator’s requirements under this Chapter to continue to receive moneys from the
Fund. In the event that the City conveys some of the Zoo assets to the Zoo operator,
the tax shall continue. If the City conveys the Zoo property and all of the Zoo assets to
a nonprofit corporation, continued use of the special tax to support the Zoo’s operations
shall be contingent upon that nonprofit corporation executing a separate agreement with
the County relating to the operation of this ordinance.

Section 2.30.060. Severability.

A.	If any provision of this Chapter is held by any court or by any Federal or State agency
of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting with any Federal or State law, rule
or regulation now or hereafter in effect, or is held by such court or agency to be modified
in any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law, rule or regulation,
such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct, and independent part of this
ordinance, and such holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all other
provisions hereof. In the event that such law, rule or regulation is subsequently
repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so that the provision thereof
which had previously been held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with such law,
rule or regulation, said provision shall thereupon return to full force and effect and shall
thereafter be binding.

B.	If any section, subsection, phrase, clause, sentence, or word in this ordinance shall
for any reason be held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, it
shall not nullify the remainder of this ordinance but shall be confined to the article,
section, subsection, subdivision, clause, sentence or word so held invalid or
unconstitutional.

Section 2.30.070. Amendment.

This Chapter may only be amended by a vote of the people if the amendment would
result in the special tax being imposed, extended, or increased in a manner not
authorized by this Chapter as originally approved by the voters. The Board of
Supervisors may enact other amendments, including but not limited to amendments
necessary to assist the Oakland Zoo in obtaining long-term financing for services and
projects.


Section 2.30.080. Expiration of Tax.

This chapter shall remain in effect only until December 31,2037, and as of that date is
repealed unless a later ordinance is adopted and approved by the voters prior to
December 31, 2037 that either deletes or extends that date.

SECTION II

This Chapter, and all the provisions thereof, shall become effective only upon
affirmative passage by a two-thirds majority vote of the eligible voters of this County
pursuant to California Constitution, Article XIIIA, section 4 and Article XIIIC, section 2;
California Government Code 53722; and Elections Code section 9140. <fullend>





<summary> OAKLAND ZOO MEASURE X EXPENDITURE PLAN

After receiving feedback from residents throughout Alameda County on their priorities
for the Oakland Zoo, the Board of Trustees of the East Bay Zoological Society has determined
that the community places a high priority on the Oakland Zoo maintaining the ability to care for
and meet the basic needs of the Zoo’s animals, including providing food, heating/cooling, clean
and fresh watering systems, and repairing and maintaining aging animal shelters. In addition,
one of the essential missions of the Oakland Zoo is to educate children about wildlife and nature,
and in today’s tough economy, residents believe we must protect and maintain affordable,
accessible Zoo educational programs for children and youth from throughout Alameda County.
After carefully reviewing the needs, the following projects and programs were deemed to be
essential community priorities, and are proposed to be addressed with the proceeds from
Measure X.

OAKLAND ZOO HUMANE ANIMAL CARE/ EDUCATION PROTECTION MEASURE

EXPENDITURE PLAN

QUALITY HUMANE ANIMAL CARE AND BASIC ANIMAL NEEDS

As sufficient funds are available, in conjunction with other future funding/revenue sources, funds
will be used to care for and meet the basic needs of Zoo animals, ensure animals are safe and
enclosures are well maintained, and make repairs, improvements and seismic upgrades to
sewage, drainage, plumbing, lighting and electrical systems, some of which are over 40 years
old, in order to provide quality, humane animal care and conditions:

Serving Basic Animal Needs and Care

•	Provide food and clean, fresh watering systems to meet the basic needs of Zoo animals,
including upgrading water filtration systems for elephant pool, giraffe exhibit, and gibbon
island.

•	Install/upgrade heating and cooling systems for Zoo animals (including giraffe barn/tiger
night house) to ensure quality, humane animal care.

•	Maintain the veterinary hospital and skilled animal healthcare providers to ensure
essential medical care for sick and aging animals, including partnering with UC Davis
School of Veterinary Medicine.

•	Maintain, upgrade and repair animal enclosures for safety and to ensure more natural and
humane conditions such as upgrading the elephant bam, climbing structure for gibbons,
and immersion pool for hyenas; creating larger, more naturalistic tiger/chimpanzee
exhibits, and repairing aging animal shelters such as leaking reptile exhibits and animal
holding for education animals.

•	Repair, upgrade and add animal exhibits to meet the basic needs and safety of animals,
including reopening two exhibits currently closed.

•	Improve training for employees and volunteers to ensure quality, humane care of animals.

•	Repair or replace animal maintenance equipment to better serve basic animal needs.

Wildlife Conservation and Animal Rescue

•	Protect vulnerable wildlife by maintaining partner programs with wildlife conservation
and animal rescue organizations to provide care for animals wounded in the wild and give
sanctuary to endangered species and retired circus animals.

•	Improve conservation by maintaining and expanding "In the Wild" program.

•	Improve conservation research and develop conservation center and programming to
educate zoo visitors about animal conservation efforts.

Repairs and Seismic Upgrades for Safety

•	Repair aging sewer/drainage systems in animal enclosures that are decades old and need
seismic upgrades, including replacing/upgrading deteriorated primary storm drain system.

•	Improve old and outdated lighting and electrical systems for energy efficiency and safety.

•	Perform critical maintenance throughout the zoo.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN AND ZOO
ACCESSIBILITY/AFFORD ABILITY

As sufficient funds are available, money will be used to support and maintain the Zoo’s children

and youth educational programs/field trips and keep entrance fees affordable.___________

Educational Children’s Programing and School Field Trips

•	Double the number of school children served by the Zoo at a time local schools are
cutting science programs and field trips

•	Maintain educational programs for Alameda County children who are already
underserved by budget cuts in Alameda County public schools.

•	Continue to offer school field trips and provide needed transportation to the Zoo for
school children from every Alameda County Supervisorial District.

•	Provide important science and nature education classes for children who often have none
in public schools.

•	Support Animals for Education program to educate children about wildlife and nature in
a way not possible through books by adding animal holding space to increase number of
animals used in outreach program traveling to Alameda County schools.

Maintaining Affordability and Visitor Safety

•	Keep programs, entrance fees and access affordable for children/youth and all Zoo
visitors

•	Ensure visitor safety with measures such as safety lighting, security cameras, and
improving signage and walkways.

MISCELLANEOUS

The above projects and programs are examples of priorities that have been identified by the
community as important needs for improving the Zoo. Projects are not listed in priority order
and may be enhanced, supplemented or expanded to the extent funds are available and funding
allocations may be updated to accommodate changing needs. To maintain consistency with the
purposes of Measure X, including as expressed in this Expenditure Plan, the Zoo may delete a
project or service among the examples listed in this Expenditure Plan, may substitute
unidentified but similar projects and services for those listed, and may decide the order in which
projects and services are initiated and completed, as long as expenditures of revenue from
Measure X are consistent with the general categories of projects listed in this Expenditure Plan.
Because the tax authorized by Measure X will be in effect after projects and services listed in
this Expenditure Plan are completed or become less responsive to community need, the Zoo may
undertake new projects and services consistent with the general purposes listed in this
Expenditure Plan. <summaryend>