COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO

Condado de San Bernardino__________________

MEASURE Q

Medida Q____________________________________

COUNTY CHARTER AMENDMENT. CHARTER AMEND-
MENT NUMBER FORTY OF THE COUNTY OF SAN BER-
NARDINO TO ENACT A PERMANENT CAP ON
COMPENSATION AND MANDATORY TRANSPARENCY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVI-
SORS. Proposal submitted by the Board of Supervisors of the
County of San Bernardino, State of California, to amend the
Charter of the County of San Bernardino as follows:
Shall the Charter of the County of San Bernardino be
amended to enact a permanent cap on compensation and
mandatory transparency for members of the County Board of
Supervisors?

ENMIENDA DE LA CARTA ORGANICA DEL CONDADO.
ENMIENDA DE LA CARTA ORGANICA NUMERO
CUARENTA DEL CONDADO DE SAN BERNARDINO PARA
IMPLEMENTAR UN LIMITE PERMANENTE A LA
COMPENSACION Y TRANSPARENCY OBLIGATORY
PARA LOS MIEMBROS DE LA JUNTA DE SUPERVISORES
DEL CONDADO. Propuesta presentada por la Junta de
Supervisores del Condado de San Bernardino, Estado de
California, para enmendar la Carta Organica del Condado de
San Bernardino de la siguiente manera:
6Se debe de enmendar la Carta Organica del Condado de
San Bernardino para implementar un llmite permanente a la
compensacion y transparencia obligatoria para los miembros
de la Junta de Supervisores del Condado?

	YES / SI	t  A
	NO/ NO	t  A
MEASURE R		
Medida R		

COMPENSATION LIMITS AND BUDGET REDUCTIONS
FOR MEMBERS OF THE COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVI-
SORS. INITIATIVE CHARTER AMENDMENT. Shall the
County Charter be amended to change the elected office of
County Supervisor to a part-time position, eliminate the cur-
rent Charter provisions relating to salaries of all elected
County officials, establish monthly compensation for the
office of County Supervisor at $5,000 plus cola not to exceed
5% annually, establish a total annual budget for each County
Supervisor at five times the Supervisor’s compensation, and
redefine retirement benefits for the position of County
Supervisor?

UMITES DE COMPENSACION Y REDUCCIONES DE
PRESUPUESTO PARA MIEMBROS DE LA JUNTA DE
SUPERVISORES DEL CONDADO. ENMIENDA DE LA
CARTA ORGANICA POR INICIATIVA. 6Se debe enmendar la
Carta Organica del Condado para cambiar el cargo electo del
Supervisor del Condado a un puesto de medio tiempo,
eliminar las disposiciones actuales de la Carta Organica
relacionadas con los salarios de los oficiales del Condado
electos, establecer una compensacion mensual para el cargo
de Supervisor del Condado de $5,000 mas ajustes por el
incremento del costo de vida que no exceda el 5% anual,
establecer un presupuesto total anual para cada Supervisor
del Condado que sea cinco veces la compensacion del
Supervisor y volver a definir los beneficios de jubilacion para
el puesto del Supervisor del Condado?

YES / SI		*
NO/ NO		

CITY OF NEEDLES

Ciudad de Needles______________________________

MEASURE S

Medida S_______________________________________

Marijuana Business Tax.

In order to provide funding for essential City services such as
police, fire, emergency response, street maintenance, pot-
hole repair, parks, libraries and youth and senior programs,
shall an ordinance be adopted to impose a tax at a rate of up
to 10% of gross receipts on marijuana businesses in Needles,
subject to existing independent financial audits, with all reve-
nue controlled by the City?

Impuestos a los negocios de marihuana.

6Se debe adoptar una ordenanza para implementar un
impuesto a una tasa de hasta el 10% de las ganancias brutas
de los negocios de marihuana en Needles, sujeto a auditorlas
financieras independientes existentes, con todo el ingreso
controlado por la ciudad, con el fin de proporcionar fondos
para los servicios esenciales de la ciudad como policfa,
bomberos, respuestas de emergencia, mantenimiento de las
calles, reparacion de baches, parques, bibliotecas, y
programas para jovenes y ancianos?

	YES / SI	—
	NO/ NO	t  A
MEASURE T		
Medida T		

Utility User Tax.

Shall Needles eliminate 2.5% of the current 7.5% franchise fee
that the City of Needles charges the Needles Public Utility
Authority and in its place establish a utility use tax of up to
2.5% to be applied to electric, water and sewer use
charges?

Impuesto al consumidor de servicios publicos.

cDebe Needles eliminar 2.5% de la cuota de franquicia actual
del 7.5% que la Ciudad de Needles cobra a la Autoridad de
Servicios Publicos de Needles y establecer en su lugar un
impuesto al consumidor de servicios publicos de hasta el
2.5% que se aplique a los cargos por uso de electricidad,
agua y drenaje?

YES / SI		*
NO /NO		-«

N 0026

N SB 012-014

MEASURE S
CITY OF NEEDLES

_____________________IMPARTIAL	ANALYSIS	FOR	MEASURE	S__________________

This Impartial Analysis for Measure S has been prepared by the City
Attorney pursuant to Section 9280 of the Elections Code of the State of
California.

Measure S, if approved by a majority of voters, will enact an ordinance taxing
marijuana businesses at a rate of up to 10% of their gross receipts, for the privilege of
conducting business within the City of Needles (“City”). This tax will be in addition to
the current business tax imposed on businesses in the City. The marijuana business
tax will tax gross receipts from the planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging,
and wholesale and retail sales of marijuana and ancillary products in the City, whether
or not carried on for profit.

This tax will not take effect until the City Council, by ordinance, sets the rate of the tax,
which cannot exceed 10% of gross receipts. The City Council may, at any time, set a
lower tax rate for all marijuana businesses or establish differing tax rates for different
categories of marijuana businesses, subject to the maximum rate of 10% of gross
receipts. The City Council may also increase the tax rate from time to time, provided
the rate set does not exceed 10% of gross receipts.

This Measure does not legalize or otherwise permit marijuana businesses in the City.

The revenues from the tax imposed by Measure S will be deposited in the general fund
and will be subject to the annual audit performed by the City’s independent auditor
which is reported in the City’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

A “yes” vote is a vote to permit the City Council to impose, by ordinance, a new
business tax on marijuana businesses at a rate of up to 10% of gross receipts in
addition to the current business tax.

A “no” vote is a vote not to permit the City Council to impose, by ordinance, a new
business tax on marijuana businesses at a rate of up to 10% of gross receipts.

si John O. Pinkney, City Attorney, City of Needles

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure S. A full text of the measure
is available at http://www.citvofneedles.com or contact the City Clerk at
ndlsclerk@citlink.net or call 760-326-2113 ext 345 and a full text of the measure will be
sent to you.

PR-9019-1

N SB 012-032

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

This Argument in Favor of Measure S was submitted pursuant to Section
9282 of the Elections Code of the State of California. It is the opinion of
the author(s), and has been printed exactly as submitted.

Please vote yes on Measure S, the marijuana business tax.

In 1996, California voters authorized the legal use of medical marijuana. As a result,
California tax authorities estimate that the state currently collects $58 million to $105
million in sales taxes on $700 million to $1.3 billion in annual retail sales of medical
marijuana.

Currently, the City of Needles (“City”) of over 4,800 people, is not collecting any
revenue from retail sales of medical marijuana. In order for the City to collect revenue,
you need to vote “yes” to tax these facilities as other cities and states have done. All
revenues collected will be deposited in the general fund and subject to existing
independent financial audits, with all revenue controlled by the City.

Today, there are no financial audits of these facilities and/or retail sales of medical
marijuana. Just as over-the-counter drugs from pharmacies are subject to taxation, so
too is medical marijuana. With a yes vote on Measure S, facilities selling medical
marijuana will be required to have financial audits and pay taxes like everyone else.
Voting yes on Measure S will bring revenue to the City to help balance the budget and
fund City services like road paving, libraries, police, fire, parks and senior programs.

The United States Supreme Court has ruled that as a general matter, the unlawfulness
of an activity does not prevent its taxation. Therefore, in California, sales of medical
marijuana, including illegal marijuana, are subject to tax. Voting yes on Measure S
does not legalize or otherwise permit marijuana businesses in the City.

Vote yes on Measure S, the marijuana business tax.

A full text of the measure is available at citvofneedles.com or contact the City Clerk at
ndlsclerk@citlink.net or 760-326-2113 and a full text of the measure will be sent to
you.

s/ Linda Kidd, Councilmember

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

No Argument Against Measure S was filed.

PR-9019-2

N SB 012-033

SUMMARY OF MEASURE S

Shall the City of Needles (“City”) impose a Medical Marijuana Business Tax as follows:

The Medical Marijuana Business Tax Measure, if approved by a majority of voters, will
enact an ordinance taxing marijuana businesses at a rate of up to 10% of their gross
receipts, for the privilege of conducting business within the City. This tax will be in
addition to the current business tax imposed on businesses in the City. The marijuana
business tax will tax gross receipts from the planting, cultivation, harvesting,
transporting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing,
packaging, and wholesale and retail sales of marijuana and ancillary products in the
City, whether or not carried on for profit. The City may use the revenue from the tax
for any legal municipal purpose, including but not limited to maintenance of vital
services and facilities. The tax must be approved by a majority of the voters who cast
ballots.

s/ John O. Pinkney
City Attorney
City of Needles

PR-9019-3

N SB 012-034

ORDINANCE NO. 543-AC

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
NEEDLES, CALIFORNIA ADDING TO CHAPTER 20.

ARTICLE VIII “MARIJUANA BUSINESS TAX” TO THE
NEEDLES MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF NEEDLES, CALIFORNIA DO HEREBY ORDAIN
AS FOLLOWS:

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF NEEDLES:

SECTION 1: Chapter 20 of The Code of the City of Needles, California is hereby amended to add a
new Article VIII, to be numbered, entitled and to read as follows:

Article VIII. Marijuana Business Tax

Sec. 20-40.1. Purpose of Chapter. This Article is enacted solely to raise revenue for general
municipal purposes and is not intended for regulation.

Sec. 20-40.2. Definitions. The definitions set forth in this Part shall govern the application and
interpretation of this Article.

Sec. 20-40.3. Business. The term “business” shall include all activities engaged in or caused to be
engaged in within the City including any commercial or industrial enterprise, trade, profession,
occupation, vocation, calling, or livelihood whether or not carried on for gain or profit, but shall
not include the services rendered by an employee to his or her employer.

Sec. 20-40.4. Business Tax Certificate. “Business Tax Certificate” means the certificate issued
by the City to the taxpayer upon completion of the business tax application and payment of the
tax prescribed by Chapter 20.

Sec. 20-40.5. Director. “Director” means the Director of the Finance Department of the City of
Needles or such other director designated by the City Manager to administer this Article.

Sec. 20-40.6. Employee. “Employee” means each and every person engaged in the operation or
conduct of any business, whether as owner, member of the owner's family, partner, associate, agent,
manager or solicitor, and each and every other person employed or working in such business for a
wage, salary, commission or room and board.

(a)	“Engaged in business” means the commencing, conducting, operating, managing
or carrying on of a marijuana business and the exercise of corporate or franchise
powers, whether done as owner, or by means of an officer, agent, manager,
employee, or otherwise, whether operating from a fixed location in the City or
coming into the City from an outside location to engage in such activities.

(b)	A person shall be deemed engaged in business within the City if:

(1)	Such person or person’s employee maintains a fixed place of business within
the City for the benefit or partial benefit of such person;

(2)	Such person or person’s employee owns or leases real property within the
City for business purposes;

(3)	Such person or person’s employee regularly maintains a stock of tangible
personal property in the City for sale in the ordinary course of business;

(4)	Such person or person’s employee regularly conducts solicitation of business
within the City;

(5)	Such person or person’s employee performs work or renders services in the
City on a regular and continuous basis involving more than five (5)
working days per year;

(6)	Such person or person’s employee utilizes the streets within the City in
connection with the operation of motor vehicles for business purposes.

The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the meaning of engaged in business.

Sec. 20-40.8. Evidence of Doing Business. Whenever any person shall, by use of signs,
circulars, cards or any other advertising media, incl uding the use of internet or telephone
solicitation, represent that such person is engaged in marijuana business in the City, then these
facts may be used as evidence that such person is engaged in business in the City.

Sec. 20-40.9. Gross Receipts. “Gross receipts,” except as otherwise specifically provided,
means the total amount actually received or receivable from all sales; the total amount or
compensation actually received or receivable for the performance of any act or service, of
whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit allowed, whether or not such act
or service is done as a part of or in connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares or
merchandise; discounts, rents, royalties, fees, commissions, dividends, and gains realized

from trading in stocks or bonds, however designated. Included in “gross receipts” shall be all
receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom on
account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service costs,
interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever, except that the following shall
be excluded therefrom:

(a)	Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;
(b)	Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and which property may later be sold, at which time the sales price shall be included as gross receipts;
(c)	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and collected from the consumer or purchaser;
(d)	Such part of the sale price of any property returned by purchasers to the seller as refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit allowances or return of refundable deposits previously included in gross receipts;
(e)	Receipts from investments where the holder of the investment receives only interest and/or dividends, royalties, annuities and gains from the sale or exchange of stock or securities solely for a person's own account, not derived in the ordinary course of a business;
(f)	Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete or surplus trade fixtures, machinery or other equipment used by the taxpayer in the regular course of the taxpayer's business;
(g)	Cash value of sales, trades or transactions between departments or units of the same business;
(h)	Whenever there are included within the gross receipts amounts which reflect sales for which credit is extended and such amount proved uncollectible in a subsequent year, those amounts may be excluded from the gross receipts in the year they prove to be uncollectible; provided, however, if the whole or portion of such amounts excluded as uncollectible are subsequently collected, they shall be included in the amount of gross receipts for the period when they are recovered;
(0	Transactions between a partnership and its partners;
(j)	Receipts from services or sales in transactions between affiliated corporations. An affiliated corporation is a corporation:

(1)	The voting and nonvoting stock of which is owned at least eighty percent
(80%) by such other corporation with which such transaction is had, or

(2)	Which owns at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting and nonvoting stock
of such other corporation, or

(3)	At least eighty percent (80%) of the voting and nonvoting stock of which
is owned by a common parent corporation which also has such ownership
of the corporation with which such transaction is had;

(k)	Transactions between a limited liability company and its members), provided the
limited liability company has elected to file as a subchapter K entity under the
Internal Revenue Code and that such transactions) shall be treated the same as
between a partnership and its partner(s) as specified in subsection (i) above;

(l)	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when forfeited and taken
into income of the business shall not be excluded when in excess of one dollar ($1);

(m)	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent or trustee and
to the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom collected. These agents or
trustees must provide the Finance Department with the names and the addresses of
the others and the amounts paid to them. This exclusion shall not apply to any
fees, percentages, or other payments retained by the agent or trustees.

“Gross receipts” subject to the business tax shall be that portion of gross receipts relating to
business conducted within the City.

Sec. 20-40.10. Marijuana. The term “marijuana” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa
L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and
every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds or
resin.

Sec. 20-40.11. Marijuana Business. The term “marijuana business” means business activity
including but not limited to, planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, wholesale, and/or retail sales
of marijuana and any ancillary products in the City, whether or not carried on for gain or profit.

Sec. 20-40.12. Marijuana Business Tax. “Business tax” or “marijuana business tax” or
“marijuana tax” shall mean the tax due for engaging in marijuana business in Needles.

Sec. 20-40.13. Person. “Person” means, without limitation, any natural individual, organization,
firm, trust, common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint
stock company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic,
and nonprofit), municipal corporation (other than the City), cooperative, receiver, trustee,
guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.

Sec. 20-40.15. Other Licenses. Permits. Taxes. Fees or Charges. Nothing contained in this
Article VIII shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect any
requirements for any license or permit required by, under or by virtue of any provision of any
other Title or Chapter of this Code or any other ordinance or resolution of the City or of its
Council, nor be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect any tax, fee
or other charge imposed, assessed or required by, under or by virtue of any other Title or
Chapter of this Code including, but not limited to, the business tax imposed by and the
requirements set forth in Chapter 20, or any other ordinance or resolution of the City or of its
Council. Any references made or contained in any other Title or Chapter of this Code to any
licenses, license taxes, fees or charges, or to any schedule of license fees, shall be deemed to
refer to the licenses, license taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of license fees, provided for
in other Titles or Chapters of this Code.

Sec. 20-40.16. Business Tax Certificate - Required.

(a)	There are imposed upon all persons engaged in marijuana business in the City
taxes in the amounts prescribed in this Article and Chapter 20. It shall be
unlawful for any person, either for him or herself or for any other person, to
commence, transact or carry on any marijuana business in the City without first
having procured a business tax certificate from the City under Chapter 20and
having paid the tax set forth therein, and without complying with any and all
provisions contained in this Article. The carrying on of any marijuana business
without complying with any and all provisions of this Article and Chapter 20,
shall constitute a separate violation of this Article and Chapter 20for each and
every day that such marijuana business is so carried on.

(b)	The business tax certificate required to be obtained under Chapter 20 and the
taxes required to be paid under this Article and Chapter 20 are declared to be
required pursuant to the taxing power of the City of Needles solely for the purpose of
obtaining revenue and are not regulatory permit fees.

Sec. 20-40.17. Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Business.

(a)	The payment of a business tax required by this Article, and its acceptance by the
City, shall not entitle any person to carry on any marijuana business unless the
person has complied with all of the requirements of this Code and all other
applicable laws, nor to carry on any marijuana business in any building or on any
premises in the event that such building or premises are situated in a zone or
locality in which the conduct of such marijuana business is in violation of any law.

(b)	No tax paid under the provisions of this Article shall be construed as
authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or any

business in violation of any ordinance of the City.

Sec. 20-40.18. Application - Form and Contents. Every person required to have a business tax
certificate under the provisions of Chapter 20 shall make application for the same, or for renewal
of the same, to the Director of the City. Such application shall be a written statement upon a
form or forms provided by the Director and shall be signed by the applicant under penalty of
perjury. The application shall set forth such information as may be required and as may be
reasonably necessary to properly determine the amount of the tax to be paid by the applicant
under Chapter 20, together with such other information as is required by the Director to enable the
Director to administer the provisions of this Article.

Sec. 20-40.19. Payment - Location. The tax imposed under this Article shall be paid to the
Director in lawful money of the United States, at City Hall, Needles, California. Lawful money
shall mean any coin, currency or negotiable instrument, exchangeable for said coin or currency,
which the United States Congress has declared to be a national legal tender.

Sec. 20-40.20. Amount of Business Tax Owed.

(a)	In addition to the business tax imposed under Chapter 20 of this Code and the
requirements set forth therein, every person engaged in marijuana business in the
City shall pay a business tax at a rate of up to ten percent (10%) of gross receipts.
The tax under this Article shall not be imposed on marijuana businesses unless
and until the City Council, by ordinance, takes action to set a tax rate not to exceed
ten percent (10%) of gross receipts.

(b)	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate of ten percent (10%) of gross receipts
imposed under subsection (a), the City Council may, in its discretion, at any time
by ordinance, implement a lower tax rate for all marijuana businesses or
establish differing tax rates for different categories of marijuana businesses, as
defined in such ordinance, subject to the maximum rate of ten percent (10%) of gross
receipts. The City Council may, by ordinance, also increase any such tax rate from
time to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate of ten percent (10%) of gross
receipts established under subsection a.

Sec. 20-40.21. Payment - Time Limits. The business tax imposed by this Article shall be due
and payable as follows:

(a)	Each person owing a tax under this Article shall, on or before the last day of each
calendar month, prepare a tax return to the Director of the total gross receipts and
the amount of tax owed for the preceding calendar month. At the time the tax return
is filed, the full amount of the tax owed for the preceding calendar month shall be
remitted to the Director.

(b)	All tax returns shall be completed on forms provided by the Director.

(c)	Tax returns and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the City are immediately
due the Director upon cessation of business for any reason.

Sec. 20-40.22. Payments and Communications Made bv Mail - Proof of Timely Submittal.
Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication received by the
Director is received after the time prescribed by this Article for the receipt thereof, but is in an
envelope bearing a postmark showing that it was mailed on or prior to the date prescribed in
this Article for the receipt thereof, or whenever the Director is furnished substantial proof that
the payment, statement, report, request or other communication was in fact deposited in the
United States mail on or prior to the date prescribed for receipt thereof, the Director may regard
such payment, statement, report, request or other communication as having been timely received. If
the due day falls on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, the due day shall be the next regular business
day on which the City Hall is open to the public.

Sec. 20-40.23. Payment - When Taxes Deemed Delinquent. Unless otherwise specifically
provided under other provisions of this Article, the taxes required to be paid pursuant to this Article
shall be deemed delinquent if not paid on or before the due date specified in Section 20-40.21.

Sec. 20-40.24. Notice Not Required bv City. The Director is not required to send a delinquency
or other notice or bill to any person subject to the provisions of this Article and failure to send such
notice or bill shall not affect the validity of any tax or penalty due under the provisions of this
Article.

Sec. 20-40.25. Payment - Penalty for Delinquency.

(a)	Any person who fails or refuses to pay any business tax required to be paid
pursuant to this Article on or before the due date shall pay penalties and interest as
follows:

(1)	A penalty equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax in
addition to the amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax calculated
from the due date of the tax at a rate established by resolution of the City
Council; and

(2)	An additional penalty equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of
the tax if the tax remains unpaid for a period exceeding one (1) calendar
month beyond the due date, plus interest on the unpaid tax and interest on
the unpaid penalties calculated at the rate established by resolution of the
City Council.

(b)	Whenever a check is submitted in payment of a business tax and the check is
subsequently returned unpaid by the bank upon which the check is drawn, and

the check is not redeemed prior to the due date, the taxpayer will be liable for the
tax amount due plus penalties and interest as provided for in this Section plus
any amount allowed under State law.

(c)	The business tax due shall be that amount due and payable from the first date on
which the person was engaged in marijuana business in the City, together with
applicable penalties and interest calculated in accordance with subsection (a)
above.

Sec. 20-40.26. Waiver of Penalties. The Director may waive the first and second penalties of
twenty-five percent (25%) each imposed upon any person if:

(a)	The person provides evidence satisfactory to the Director that failure to pay
timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of the person and occurred
notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and the absence of willful neglect,
and the person paid the delinquent business tax and accrued interest owed the City
prior to applying to the Director for a waiver.

(b)	he waiver provisions specified in this subsection shall not apply to interest
accrued on the delinquent tax and a waiver shall be granted only once during any
twenty-four (24) month period.

Sec. 20-40.27. Refunds - Credits.

(a)	No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this Article except as
provided in Section 20-40.28.

(b)	No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this Article shall be made because of the
discontinuation, dissolution or other termination of a business.

(c)	Any person entitled to a refund of taxes paid pursuant to this Article may elect in
writing to have such refund applied as a credit against such person's business taxes
for the next calendar month.

Sec. 20-40.28. Refunds and Procedures. Whenever the amount of any business tax, penalty or
interest has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the City under this Article, it may be refunded to the claimant who paid the tax
provided that a written claim for refund is filed with the Director, and the provisions of
Chapter 20 are satisfied.

(a) The Director or the Director's authorized agent shall have the right to examine
and audit all the books and business records of the claimant in order to
determine the eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund
shall be allowed if the claimant therefor refuses to allow such examination of
claimant's books and business records after request by the Director to do so.

(b)	In the event that the business tax was erroneously paid and the error is
attributable to the City, the entire amount of the tax erroneously paid shall be
refunded to the claimant. If the error is attributable to the claimant, the City shall
retain the amount set forth in the Schedule of Fees and Charges established by
resolution of the City Council from the amount to be refunded to cover expenses.

(c)	The Director shall initiate a refund of any business tax which has been overpaid or
erroneously collected whenever the overpayment or erroneous collection is
uncovered by a City audit of business tax receipts. In the event that the business
tax was erroneously paid and the error is attributable to the City, the entire
amount of the tax erroneously paid shall be refunded to the claimant. If the error
is attributable to the claimant, the City shall retain the amount set forth in the
Schedule of Fees and Charges established by resolution of the City Council from
the amount to be refunded to cover expenses.

Sec. 20-40.29. Exemptions - Application - Issuance Conditions. Any person desiring to claim
exemption from the payment of the tax set forth in this Article shall make application therefor
upon forms prescribed by the Director and shall furnish such information and make such
affidavits as may be required by the Director.

Sec. 20-40.30. Exemptions - General. Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this
Article, the terms hereof shall not be deemed or construed to apply to any person when imposition
of the tax upon that person would violate the Constitution of the United States or that of the
State of California or preemptive federal or state law.

Sec. 20-40.31. Exemptions - Occasional Transactions.

(a)	The provisions of this Article shall not apply to persons having no fixed place of
business within the City of Needles who come into the City for the purpose of
transacting a specific item of business at the request of a specific patient, client or
customer, provided that such person does not come into the City for the purpose
of transacting business on more than five (5) days during any calendar year.

(b)	For any person not having a fixed place of business within the City of Needles
who comes into the City for the purpose of transacting business and who is not
exempt as provided in subsection (a), of this Section, the business tax payable by
such person may be apportioned by the Director in accordance with Section 20-
40.35.

Sec. 20-40.32. Enforcement - Duties of Director and Chief of Police. It shall be the duty of
the Director to enforce each and all of the provisions of this Article, and the Chief of Police
shall render such assistance in the enforcement of this Article as may from time to time be required
by the Director.

Sec. 20-40.34 Rules and Regulations. For purposes of apportionment as may be required by
law and for purposes of administration and enforcement of this Article generally, the Director,
with the concurrence of the City Attorney, may from time to time promulgate administrative rules
and regulations.

Sec. 20-40.35. Apportionment.

(a)	None of the tax provided for by this Article shall be applied so as to occasion an
undue burden upon interstate commerce or be violative of the equal protection
and due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the State of
California.

(b)	If any case where a business tax is believed by a taxpayer to place an undue burden
upon interstate commerce or be violative of such constitutional clauses, the
taxpayer may apply to the Director for an adjustment of the tax. It shall be the
taxpayer’s obligation to request in writing for an adjustment within one (1) year
after the date of payment of the tax. If the taxpayer does not request in writing
within one (1) year from the date of payment, then taxpayer shall be conclusively
deemed to have waived any adjustment for that year.

(c)	The taxpayer shall, by sworn statement and supporting testimony, show the
method of business and the gross volume of business and such other information as
the Director may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of such
undue burden or violation. The Director shall then conduct an investigation, and
shall fix as the tax for the taxpayer an amount that is reasonable and
nondiscriminatory, or if the tax has already been paid, shall order a refund of the
amount over and above the tax so fixed. In fixing the tax to be charged, the
Director shall have the power to base the tax upon a percentage of gross
receipts or any other measure which will assure that the tax assessed shall be
uniform with that assessed on businesses of like nature, so long as the amount
assessed does not exceed the tax as prescribed by this Article.

(d)	Should the Director determine that the gross receipt measure of tax to be the
proper bases, the Director may require the taxpayer to submit a sworn statement of
the gross receipts and pay the amount of tax as determined by the Director.

Sec. 20-40.36. Audit and Examination of Records and Equipment. The Director shall have
the power to audit and examine all books and records of persons engaged in marijuana
business including both state and federal income tax returns, California sales tax returns, or
other evidence documenting the gross receipts of persons engaged in marijuana business, and,
where necessary, all equipment, of any person engaged in marijuana business in the City, for the
purpose of ascertaining the amount of business tax, if any, required to be paid by the provisions
hereof, and for the purpose of verifying any statements or any item thereof when filed by any

person pursuant to the provisions of this Article. If such person, after written demand by the
Director, refuses to make available for audit, examination or verification such books, records or
equipment as the Director requests, the Director may, after full consideration of all information
within his or her knowledge concerning the marijuana business and activities of the person so
refusing, make an assessment in the manner provided in Sections 20-40.39 through 20-40.41 of
any taxes estimated to be due.

Sec. 20-40.37. Tax Deemed Debt to City. The amount of any tax, penalties and interest
imposed by the provisions of this Article shall be deemed a debt to the City and any person
carrying on any marijuana business without first having procured a business tax certificate shall be
liable in an action in the name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount
of the tax, and penalties and interest imposed on such business.

Sec. 20-40.38. Deficiency Determinations. If the Director is not satisfied that any statement
filed as required under the provisions of this Article is correct, or that the amount of tax is
correctly computed, he or she may compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a
deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts contained in the statement or upon the
basis of any information in his or her possession or that may come into his or her possession. One
or more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for a period or periods may be made.
When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency determination may be made at
any time within three (3) years thereafter as to any liability arising from engaging in such business
whether or not a deficiency determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be
due. Whenever a deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be given to the person
concerned in the same manner as notices of assessment are given under Sections 20-40.39
through 20-40.41.

Sec. 20-40.39. Tax Assessment - Authorized When - Nonpayment - Fraud.

(a)	Under any of the following circumstances, the Director may make and give
notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person under this Article:

(1)	If the person has not filed any statement or return required under the
provisions of this Article;

(2)	If the person has not paid any tax due under the provisions of this Article;

(3)	If the person has not, after demand by the Director, filed a corrected
statement or return, or furnished to the Director adequate substantiation of
the information contained in a statement or return already filed, or paid
any additional amount of tax due under the provisions of this Article;

(4)	If the Director determines that the nonpayment of any business tax due
under this Article is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%)
of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to penalties and
interest otherwise stated in this Article.

(b)	The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax known
by the Director to be due or estimated by the Director, after consideration of all

information within the Director’s knowledge concerning the business and
activities of the person assessed, to be due under each applicable Section of this
Article, and shall include the amount of any penalties or interest accrued on each
amount to the date of the notice of assessment.

Sec. 20-40.40. Tax Assessment - Notice Requirements. The notice of assessment shall be
served upon the person either by handing it to him or her personally, or by a deposit of the notice
in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at the address of the
location of the business appearing on the face of the business tax certificate issued under
Chapter 20 or to such other address as he or she shall register with the Director for the
purpose of receiving notices provided under this Article; or, should the person have no business
tax certificate issued and should the person have no address registered with the Director for
such purpose, then to such person's last known address. For the purposes of this Section, a
service by mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.

Sec. 20-40.41. Tax Assessment - Hearing - Application and Determination. Within ten (10)
days after the date of service the person may apply in writing to the Director for a hearing on
the assessment. If application for a hearing before the City is not made within the time herein
prescribed, the tax assessed by the Director shall become final and conclusive. Within thirty
(30) days of the receipt of any such application for hearing, the Director shall cause the matter
to be set for hearing before him or her not later than thirty (30) days after the date of application,
unless a later date is agreed to by the Director and the person requesting the hearing. Notice of
such hearing shall be given by the Director to the person requesting such hearing not later than
five (5) days prior to such hearing. At such hearing said applicant may appear and offer evidence
why the assessment as made by the Director should not be confirmed and fixed as the tax due.
After such hearing the Director shall determine and reassess the proper tax to be charged and
shall give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed in Section 20-40.40 for giving
notice of assessment.

Sec. 20-40.42. Conviction for Chanter Violation - Taxes Not Waived. The conviction and
punishment of any person for failure to pay the required tax shall not excuse or exempt such person
from any civil action for the tax debt unpaid at the time of such conviction. No civil action shall
prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the provisions of this Article or of any state
law requiring the payment of all taxes.

Sec. 20-40.43. Violation Deemed Misdemeanor - Penalty. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this Article or any regulation or rule passed in accordance herewith, or
knowingly or intentionally misrepresenting to any officer or employee of the City any material
fact in procuring the business tax certificate provided for in Chapter 20 shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500) or by imprisonment for a period of not more than six (6) months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.

Sec. 20-40.44. Operative Date. The operative date of this Article shall be

Sec. 20-40.45. Severability. Should any provision of this Ordinance, or its application to any
person or circumstance, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful,
unenforceable or otherwise void, that determination shall have no effect on any other provision
of this Ordinance or the application of this Ordinance to any other person or circumstance and,
to that end, the provisions hereof are severable.

Sec. 20-40.46. Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization. Unless specifically
provided otherwise, any reference to a State or federal statute in this Article shall mean such statute
as it may be amended from time to time, provided that such reference to a statute herein shall not
include any amendment thereto, or to any change of interpretation thereto by a State or federal
agency or court of law with the duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such
amendment or change of interpretation would, under California law, require voter approval of
such amendment or interpretation, or to the extent that such change would result in a tax
decrease. To the extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would
result, the prior version of the statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any
application or situation that would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax,
provisions of the amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum
possible extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this
Article is expanded as a result of changes in State or federal law, no amendment or
modification of this Article shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax
shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of
the tax imposed under this Article.

Sec. 20-40.47. Subject to Annual City Audits. Pursuant to Section 1108 of the City’s Charter,
as may be amended, the revenues from the tax imposed by this Article shall be subject to the
annual audit performed by the City’s independent auditor of the City’s municipal books, records,
accounts and fiscal procedures and which is reported in the City’s Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report.

Sec. 20-40.48. Remedies Cumulative. All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Article or
which are available under any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the
California False Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California
Unfair Practices Act (Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative.
The use of one or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Article.

Sec. 20-40.49. Amendment or Repeal. Article VIII of the Needles Municipal Code may be
repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of the people. However, as required by
Chapter XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment
provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance. The People
of the City of Needles affirm that the following actions shall not constitute an increase of the
rate of a tax:

(a)	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this
Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

(b)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to
some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of
this Ordinance;

(c)	The establishment of a class of Person that is exempt or excepted from the tax or
the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the
discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this
Ordinance); or

(d)	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the City had, for some
period of time, failed to collect the tax

SECTION 2. After its adoption by the voters, this Ordinance shall be in full force and
effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the legislative body, pursuant to the
provisions of Elections Code section 9217 and as provided by law.

SECTION 3. Chapter 20, Article VIII of the Needles Municipal Code may be amended
by the City Council of the City of Needles without a vote of the people. However, as
required by Article XI11C of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any
amendment that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance.
The people of the City of Needles affirm that the following actions shall not constitute
an increase of the rate of a tax:

1.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that
set by this Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of or suspend
collection of all or a portion of the tax;

2.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any
definition applicable to the tax, as long as the interpretation or clarification (even if
contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the
language of this Ordinance;

3.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the City had,
for some prior of time, failed to collect the tax.

SECTION 4. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to unconstitutional,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this Chapter or any
part thereof. The voters of the City of Needles hereby declare that they would have
passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrases be declared unconstitutional.

SECTION 5. Effective Date. If adopted by the voters at the November 6, 2012
election, this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after the vote is
declared by the legislative body, pursuant to the provisions of Elections Code sections
9217 and 15400 and as provided by law.

SECTION 6. The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this ordinance and cause it,
or a summary of it, to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation printed
and published within the City of Needles, and shall post a certified copy of this
Ordinance, including the vote for and against the same, in the Office of the City Clerk in
accordance with Government Code section 36933.

APPROVED FOR INTRODUCTION at a regular city council meeting held this 10th day
of July, 2012, by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS	LOPEZ,	KIDD, FRAZIER, CAMPBELL, MURCH AND GUDMUNDSON

NOES:	none

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

NONE

NONE

ATTEST:

Lena Wade