268

L y

)t U-

' cu't (L

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General Election

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet
On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

SCHOOL

BELLFLOWER UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

PAGE

7

159

___ To expand vocational education facilities, upgrade classroom computer
RR technology; repair, equip, and construct classrooms/facilities at Baxter,

■*** Foster, Intensive Learning Center, Jefferson, Las Flores, Lindstrom,

Pyle, Ramona, Washington, Williams, and Woodruff Elementary and Bellflower,

Mayfair, and Somerset High Schools, shall Bellflower Unified School District issue $79,000,000 of bonds with
interest rates below legal limits, with independent citizen oversight, no money for administrator salaries, and
all funds spent locally and not taken by the State and spent elsewhere?

158

YES-Kl)

N0«*O

CITY

BELLFLOWER CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

N0"*O

P Shall an ordinance to offset State financial cuts and help the City of I 164 YES^O
Bellflower maintain and restore City services including: neighborhood
Sheriffs patrols; local Sheriff’s substation hours; drug, bullying and
gang prevention/enforcement; graffiti removal;	school safety/after-school

programs; pothole repairs; and other services, by temporarily increasing Bellflower's utility users’ tax by 2%
for 5 years; with audits, low-income senior exemptions, citizens' oversight and all funds used for local
purposes, be adopted?

165

END OF BALLOT

07-015E

N LA 268-012

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

CITY OF BELLFLOWER SERVICES PROTECTION EMERGENCY
FUNDING MEASURE

Measure P proposes to increase Bellflower’s existing Utility Users’ Tax (UUT)
from 5% to 7% for 5 years. That increase is proposed as a more dependable
revenue. It is a source of revenue totally within local control - a source on which
the community can rely to fund important City services.

Background.

Since 1993, Bellflower residents and businesses have paid the UUT on
telecommunications, electricity and gas services. The City deposits UUT
revenues into its General Fund and expends them through the annual budget for
general City services, such as public safety, graffiti removal, gang and drug
prevention and enforcement programs, after-school and youth summer activities
and other services. Annual UUT revenues comprise approximately 16%, or
$3.8 Million, of Bellflower’s annual General Fund. Since its inception, the City
has required an annual independent verification to confirm the UUT is being
properly collected, remitted and spent.

In recent years, most cities and states, the nation and many individuals have
encountered dire financial circumstances. To address the impacts those have
caused to Bellflower’s budget, the Council has made significant cuts to
personnel, programs, operating costs and capital expenditures and increased cost
recovery through a revised Comprehensive Fee Schedule. Even after
implementing those steps, the City’s expenses continue to outpace its revenues.
The projected operating budget deficit for the General Fund over the next two
years is $1.6 Million. That deficit is the result of broad declines in City revenues,
especially sales and property taxes. Those declines are in addition to local funds
being taken to balance the State’s General Fund deficit.

To ensure consistent, local revenue is available to allow the Bellflower
community to pay for vital local services, such as neighborhood Sheriffs patrols,
drug, gang and bullying prevention and enforcement, graffiti removal, crossing
guards, after-school and youth summer activities, pothole repairs and other
services, Measure P, if approved by the voters, would increase the current UUT.
The Council intends to continue the independent annual review of the UUT.

Measure P would:

-	Increase the UUT from 5% to 7% only for the period from April 1, 2013,
through March 31, 2018.

-	Require the UUT to return to 5%, automatically, on April 1, 2018, unless the
voters extend the increase for a longer period.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905397-1

N LA 268-063

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P (Continued)

-	Permit the Council to lower or suspend the UUT rate, but not raise it without
another vote of the people.

-	Increase the General Fund annual revenue by approximately $1.5 Million over
the 5-year period that increase would be in effect.

-	Maintain the existing exemption for low-income households; the Council may
temporarily expand exemptions, but not reduce or eliminate exemptions for
low-income households without voter approval.

-	Not tax the use of the Internet. Federal law prohibits taxing that use and the
UUT complies with that law.

Measure P requires approval by a majority of voters. A “Yes” vote approves
increasing the UUT from 5% to 7% for 5 years. A “No” vote disapproves that
increase.

JOSEPH W. PANNONE
Bellflower City Attorney

PR-905397-2

N LA 268-064

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Protect Bellflower from State money grabs - vote YES ON P!

Sacramento balances its budget on the backs of cities like Bellflower, forcing our
City to cut services we rely on.

YES on P is a TEMPORARY measure to protect LOCAL services. Measure P
makes Bellflower less dependent on Sacramento politicians by providing stable
funding for services including public safety, graffiti removal, and youth/senior
programs. By law, the State can’t seize any Measure P funds.

Prior to the economic downturn Bellflower funded youth programs serving 1,500
kids. Budget cuts have eliminated many of these summer and after-school
programs. Measure P maintains/restores critical programs - keeping kids away
from gangs/drugs, and out of trouble.

With the State releasing over 400 new parolees into our region, now is the time
to restore Sheriffs Substation hours and the four Sheriffs Deputies budget cuts
forced Bellflower to eliminate. We need local funding to monitor these parolees,
keeping Bellflower safe.

YES ON P MAINTAINS/RESTORES:

-	Sheriffs patrols

-	School safety/after-school programs

-	Our local Sheriffs Substation

-	Drug and gang prevention/enforcement

YES ON P IS FISCALLY ACCOUNTABLE.

YES on P is TEMPORARY, legally expires in 5 years and requires exemptions for
low-income seniors, independent citizens’ oversight and financial audits to
ensure all funds are properly spent as promised to taxpayers. The public will
continue to review all City expenditures.

If we’re forced to continue cutting basic City services, Bellflower will quickly
resemble neighboring, crime-ridden cities with gangs, graffiti, and rundown
streets. We can’t let this happen!

(Continued on next page)

PR-905397-3

N LA 268-065

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P (Continued)

That’s why local firefighters, sheriffs, the Bellflower City Council, business
owners and community leaders support YES on P - locally-controlled funding for
essential City services that can’t be taken by Washington or Sacramento.
Protect Bellflower’s health and safety - VOTE YES ON P. Visit
www.ProtectBellflower.com

DAN KOOPS
Mayor of Bellflower

RAYMOND DUNTON
Mayor Pro Tem of Bellflower

LEROY BACA

Sheriff of Los Angeles County

EULA CISNEROS
Bellflower Little League Board

ALEX SALAZAR
Bellflower Business Owner

PR-905397-4

N LA 268-066

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

The politicians are claiming that Measure P is a “temporary tax.” We are already
burdened with too many “temporary taxes” that never go away.

The politicians claim that they will restore public safety after you agree to raise
your taxes by 40%. But all the money will go into the general fund, the same fund
that they used to create several Assistant Directors and double the pay of the
highest paid employees at City Hall.

The politicians made campaign promises when they got the original Utility Users
Tax passed.

WHAT THE POLITICIANS PROMISED:

-	Neighborhood police patrols

-	Funding for youth programs

-	Sheriff foot/bike patrols

WHAT THE POLITICIANS DELIVERED:

-	Newly created Assistant Directors making over $100,000 a year

-	Doubled the salaries of the highest paid managers in City Hall

-	Pensions of over $100,000 a year for retired employees

-	Eliminated 103 low-paying and part-time positions

-	Eliminated youth programs

-	Cut four Sheriffs Deputies

Bellflower needs fiscal sanity. Allowing the politicians to raise taxes every time
they create a fiscal emergency (our second one in two years) enables them to
continue their wasteful ways. They steadfastly refuse to eliminate the Assistant
Directors positions they created or bring executive salaries and pensions back
down to a reasonable level.

The recent City of Bell scandal started with excessively high taxes and ended as
an embarrassment to the City. Don’t let this happen to Bellflower. Reject the
40% tax increase by voting NO on Measure P.

JOHN PAUL DRAYER
Bellflower Homeowner

ART OLIVIER
Realtor

PR-905397-5

N LA 268-067

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

If you pay $100 in Utility User’s Tax and this measure passes, you’ll be paying
$140. THAT’S A 40% INCREASE!

The City has eliminated 103 low-paying positions while adding several Assistant
Directors with six-figure salaries and doubling the pay of their bosses. Many
residents received pay cuts or had their homes devalued. We should not be
forced to pay for their excesses.

To save money, the Council could eliminate the Assistant Director positions,
spend less on legal services and utilize the offices at the Lakewood Sheriff’s
Station instead of raising our taxes and laying off the lowest paid workers that
provide most of our services.

The City Council implies that the tax increase will pay for law enforcement and
other important services. The reality is that THE MONEY GOES INTO THE
GENERAL FUND, the same fund used for the salaries of the highest paid
employees in City Hall.

There are currently 16,000 retired state and local employees with pensions over
$100,000 plus generous healthcare packages and cost of living increases. Many
are retiring in their 50’s. This is unsustainable. Voting NO ON ALL OF THE
TAX INCREASES, forces the politicians to modify the public pension system to
make it fair and sustainable.

The City has declared its second fiscal emergency in two years while stopping a
green electric car company from moving into an abandoned car lot. If the City
were business friendly, they could increase revenue without higher taxes.

The City spent about $500,000 (they have not released the exact amount) in
election costs and advertising to get us to increase our taxes in the last two years.
In 2010, the PEOPLE WON and the COUNCILMEN LOST! Send them a
message that they should do their jobs and stop wasting money by voting NO on
HIGHER TAXES.

JOHN PAUL DRAYER
Bellflower Homeowner

JOSEPH E. CVETKO
Former Mayor

ART OLIVIER
Former Mayor

PR-905397-6

N LA 268-068

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

How ridiculous and irresponsible for ex-politicians and political novices to make
these outlandish statements. Make no mistake- YES on P protects your services
from Sacramento takeaways!

Fact: In four years, Bellflower has cut $20 million including:

-Laying off 75 employees
-4 year salary freeze - NO Raises
-Eliminating 4 sheriff deputies
-Eliminating 4 assistant directors
-Reducing sheriff substation hours/patrols
-Reducing Dial-A-Ride services for seniors
-Eliminating after-school programs for youth

Fact: In January 2012, Sacramento seized Bellflower’s economic redevelopment
funds, taking $80,000,000 from our community.

Fact: Now, the State is releasing 400+ new parolees into our neighborhoods. In
recent years, Bellflower has dramatically reduced crime, becoming a community
where we want to live/raise our families. If we continue to cut essential services,
Bellflower will begin to resemble neighboring cities with more crime, gangs,
graffiti and rundown streets.

YES on P:

Restores sheriff substation hours and sheriff deputies
Increases sheriff patrols
Restores school safety programs

Restores drug/gang prevention and enforcement programs

YES on P is an Emergency Funding Measure allowing for a TEMPORARY, 2%
increase in Bellflower’s voter-approved UUT rate (2 cents per $1). Measure P
expires in 5 years and includes independent financial audits and Independent
Citizens Oversight. Sacramento politicians can’t touch a dime.

Some of us didn’t support Measure A in 2010, but now we’re united on YES on P
because we’re sick of State money grabs. We want to ensure your taxpayer
dollars stay LOCAL. Join us in voting YES on P!

SCOTT LARSEN
Bellflower City Council Member

SONNY SANTA INES
Bellflower City Council Member

RYAN VERWYS
Community Advocate

PAM LEESTMA

Teacher, Valley Christian School

RICK ROYSE
Taxpayer Advocate

PR-905397-7

N LA 268-069

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BELLFLOWER, CALIFORNIA,
AMENDING CHAPTER 3.20 OF THE BELLFLOWER MUNICIPAL CODE BY
ADDING SECTION 3.20.025 TO INCREASE THE UTILITY USERS’ TAX BY
TWO PERCENT FOR FIVE YEARS

WHEREAS, the City of Bellflower, along with scores of other cities in California
and the country, faces a severe budget deficit and has had to dramatically cut
essential City services to manage its growing deficit; and

WHEREAS, in recent years, Bellflower has dramatically reduced crime and
become a community where people desire to live and raise families. However, if
we are forced to continue cutting basic City services, Bellflower is going to begin
to look just like crime-ridden cities, with more gangs, graffiti, and rundown
streets; and

WHEREAS, $80 Million in recent State budget cuts and takeaways from
Bellflower have meant millions of dollars in City cuts to public safety and
other City services, the loss of hundreds of anticipated good-paying, local,
private-sector jobs, and an expected $1.6 Million City deficit over the next two
fiscal years.

WHEREAS, the only way to offset State financial cuts and help the City maintain
and restore City services such as neighborhood Sheriffs patrols, local Sheriffs
substation hours, drug, bullying and gang prevention/enforcement, graffiti
removal, school safety/after-school programs, pothole repairs, and other services
is for the voters to approve a two-percent increase in the current utility users’ tax
for a limited time.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF BELLFLOWER DO
HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.20 of the Bellflower Municipal Code is hereby
amended by adding Section 3.20.025 to read as follows:

“Section 3.20.025. Limited-Time Two Percent Increase.

Notwithstanding Section 3.20.020 and Subsections 3.20.050 A., 3.20.060 B. and

3.20.070	B. of this chapter, from April 1, 2013, through March 31, 2018, the five
percent (5%) tax levied on gas, electrical, and telephone/teleeommunication
service as set forth in this chapter shall be increased by two percent (2%) to
seven percent (7%).”

SECTION 2. Effective Date. Upon a majority of the voters voting in favor of
this Ordinance, it shall be considered as adopted upon the date the vote is
declared by the City Council and shall go into effect ten (10) days after that date.

PR-905397-8

N LA 268-070