324

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General Election

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet
On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

COUNTY MEASURES

B Shall an ordinance be adopted requiring producers of adult films to obtain 132 YES-*o

a County public health permit, to require adult film performers to use-------------------------------

condoms while engaged in sex acts, to provide proof of blood borne ^ 33	NOk^O

pathogen training course, to post permit and notices to performers, and making-----------------------------

violations of the ordinance subject to civil fines and criminal charges?

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

J Accelerating Traffic Relief, Job Creation. To advance Los Angeles	136	YES^O

County’s traffic relief, economic/job growth by accelerating light rail/-----------------------------

subway construction and airport connections, within five years, not 137	no->o

twenty; funding countywide freeway, bridge, safety and traffic flow---------------------------------------

improvements; fixing potholes; keeping senior, student, disabled fares low; Shall Los Angeles County's
voter-approved one-half cent traffic relief sales tax continue without increase for another 30 years or until
voters decide to end it, with independent audits and keeping funds local?

SCHOOL

LOCAL CLASSROOMS FUNDING AUTHORITY

a To protect academic quality in local K-12 schools; maintain math, 142 YES«»0

science, English programs; provide education for students with -----------------------------------------

disabilities/special needs; support computer technology and school 143 no->o

security; prepare students for college/careers; retain excellent teachers; shall'----------------------------------

Local Classrooms Funding Authority levy a special tax of 2(/square foot of lot for residential property, and
7.50/square foot for other property types; requiring citizens oversight, audits, senior exemptions, no money
for administrator salaries and all funds staying local?

EL CAMINO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

147

EEL CAMINO	COLLEGE IMPROVEMENT/TRANSFER/JOB TRAINING

MEASURE.	To prepare students for universities/transfer/jobs,

including nursing, healthcare, fire-fighting and high-tech jobs, by
expanding science labs, upgrading outdated electrical systems, wiring, green
energy for savings, building earthquake/fire-safe classrooms equipped with up-to-da
facilities for Veterans, acquiring, constructing, repairing facilities, sites/equipment, shall El Camino Community
College District issue $350,000,000 in bonds at legal rates, requiring all funds remain local, financial audits,
citizen’s oversight, and NO money for pensions/administrators’ salaries?

YES^O

148	no-*0

e technology, improving

END OF BALLOT

06-093E

N LA 324-011

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE CL

LOCAL CLASSROOMS FUNDING AUTHORITY
RECITALS

The Local Classrooms Funding Authority (“Authority”) is a Joint Powers
Authority created by the Hawthorne School District (“Hawthorne”), the
Lawndale School District (“Lawndale”), the Lennox School District (“Lennox”),
the Wiseburn School District (“Wiseburn”), and the Centinela Valley Union
High School District (“Centinela”) (collectively “Members”) administered
pursuant to the Joint Exercise of Powers Agreement to Establish the Local
Classrooms Funding Authority (“Agreement”) by the Authority’s Agency
(“Agency”). The Members have established the goals of improving academic
performance and the quality of education for all students of the Members.

In support of these goals and to protect local control of educational programs
and services, the Board of Directors of the Authority (“Board”) proposes an
education parcel tax measure (“Measure”) to provide stable local educational
funding for schools and programs.

The Measure would raise about $14 million a year for our local schools including
Hawthorne, Lawndale, Lennox, Wiseburn, and Centinela, and every penny of the
money will stay local and could not be taken by the State.

Money from the Measure can be used to ensure that our students get a solid
educational foundation in academic subjects such as math, science, and English,
helping prepare them for entry into college and to compete in today’s tough job
market, as well as to fund special education for children with physical or learning
disabilities, giving them the support and opportunities they need to succeed.

During this recession, it is more important than ever to have high quality job and
career training for students, and the Measure will support needed vocational
classes, G.E.D. classes, and English as a Second Language (“ESL”) classes to
help local students get jobs and earn a living. To compete in today’s high-speed,
technologically advanced economy, it is critical to maintain up-to-date computer
and learning technology programs for our students, and the Measure will help
prepare students for high demand jobs of the twenty-first century.

With the Measure the academic quality of local schools will continue to improve,
ensuring students have access to the teachers, small class sizes, computers and
learning technology they need for academic and career success.

An education parcel tax is needed in order for local school districts to maintain
excellent schools at a time when the California Legislature is again unable to
provide adequate funding for the operation of the schools in the local
community.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905419-1

N LA 324-033

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE CL (Continued)

In the last three years the State has cut funding for local schools by 20%, which is
more than $2,000 per student, and the Measure would replace some of that
money and provide a stable, local source of funding for our schools.

If the education parcel tax is not approved, local school districts may be forced to
adopt a budget that includes teacher and staff layoffs and reductions in programs
and services beneficial and necessary to students.

A superior and comprehensive education program delivers many benefits to all
the residents of our community. The Measure will strengthen local public schools
and having good schools makes our area a desirable place to live, which in turn
improves local property values benefiting everyone.

TERMS & USE OF PROCEEDS

To protect academic quality in local K-12 schools; maintain math, science,
English programs; provide education for students with disabilities/special needs;
support computer technology and school security; prepare students for
college/careers; retain excellent teachers; shall Local Classrooms Funding
Authority levy a special tax of 2?/square foot of lot for residential property, and
7.5c/square foot of lot for other property types; requiring citizens oversight,
audits, senior exemptions, no money for administrator salaries and all funds
staying local?

Moneys raised under this Measure shall be authorized to be used by the
Members for the following purposes in accordance with priorities established by
the governing boards of the school districts to which the funds are provided and
to the extent of available funds:

-	Protect academic programs in math, science, and English

-	Fund education for students with physical/learning disabilities or special needs

-	Prepare students for success in college and universities

-	Foster student learning in computers and technology

-	Equip students to compete for jobs and careers

-	Attract and retain teachers and staff

-	Support school security

Moneys raised under this Measure may also be used by the Wiseburn School
District to establish, operate, and allow students in that district to attend, its own
local, community high school.

No proceeds of the Measure will be spent on administrative salaries.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905419-2

N LA 324-034

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE CL (Continued)

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

1.	Parcel of Taxable Real Property. The education parcel tax shall be levied on
every parcel of taxable real property within the Authority. The boundaries of the
Authority are coterminous with the boundaries of the Centinela Valley Union
High School District.

“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” is defined as any unit of real property within
the Authority that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from
the Los Angeles County Tax Collector or other appropriate County official
(“County Tax Official”). All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon
which no ad valorem property taxes are levied in any year shall also be exempt
from the qualified special tax in such year.

Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under common ownership, contain a
single-family residence, and that constitute one economic unit, meaning that they
have the same primary purpose as the principal parcel and are not separate and
distinct properties that may be independently developed or sold, shall comprise a
single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes of the parcel tax. The total
square footage of any multiple parcels treated as a single Parcel of Taxable Real
Property for purposes of the parcel tax shall be used to calculate the tax for those
parcels.

If the Authority terminates pursuant to the Agreement, levy of the tax shall
cease.

2.	Uniform Application. The education parcel tax shall be uniformly applied to
each Parcel of Taxable Real Property within the following property
classifications.

Type of Property	Annual	Amount	of	Tax per

Parcel of Taxable Real Property

-	Residential	2	cents	per	square	foot of lot for all

residential property

-	Non-Residential	7.5	cents	per	square	foot	of	lot	for

all non-residential property

For purposes of determining the rate of tax above, the following definitions shall
apply:

-	“Residential” includes parcels containing any of the following kinds of
residential living units (a) those with no common walls on a single County
Assessor’s parcel (i.e., single family detached homes); (b) those with common

(Continued on next page)

PR-905419-3

N LA 324-035

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE CL (Continued)

walls each of which is assigned a unique Assessor’s parcel number (i.e.
condominiums and townhouses), each of which shall be treated as a Parcel of
Taxable Real Property; (c) mobile homes, each of which shall be treated as a
Parcel of Taxable Real Property; and (d) residential living units with common
walls on an Assessor’s parcel on which other units are located - such parcels
include, but are not limited to, duplexes, parcels with two (2) or more living
units on a single assessor’s parcel; apartment buildings with two (2) or more
units (up to an unlimited number of units); and any and all other multi-family
residential parcels.

- “Non-Residential Property” includes all improved and unimproved Parcels of
Taxable Real Property that are not Residential. This includes, but is not
limited to, retail buildings, shopping centers, hotels, motels, service stations,
office buildings, hospitals, trailer parks, warehouses, transportation facilities,
storage facilities, utilities, agricultural and farmland, light and heavy industrial,
recreational land and vacant land.

Any parcel that does not fall clearly within any category above shall be taxed at
7.5 cents per square foot of lot annually.

3.	Adjustment for Inflation. To account for the impact of inflation on the cost of
delivering the classroom programs and student services supported by the
qualified special tax, the tax rate shall be increased to account for inflation. Each
year, the qualified special tax rate shall be adjusted by no more than the average
of the reported monthly or other periodic percentage changes in the Consumer
Price Index-All Urban Consumers, Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County area
(Series CUURA421SA0) over the prior twelve months, as of April of each year,
as published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, rounded to the nearest tenth
of a cent. If in any year, that index is not available, the rate will be adjusted based
on the changes in the Consumer Price Index - All Urban Consumers (CPI U).
However, in any given year, pursuant to the powers provided it by the
Agreement, by unanimous vote, the Board may defer any inflation adjustment.

4.	Future Advisory Measures. Commencing in 2024, and every four years
thereafter in accordance with Section 13 of the Agreement, so long as the
qualified special tax is being levied by the Authority, the Authority shall place an
advisory measure on the ballot, pursuant to California Elections Code section 9603,
seeking the voters’ opinion regarding continuation of the levy of the parcel tax at
the current level or any modifications, including increasing or supplementing the
parcel tax.

In accordance with Elections Code section 9603, the advisory measure(s)
required by this provision shall not be binding in any manner on the Authority.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905419-4

N LA 324-036

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE CL (Continued)

Within 60 days of the certification of the results of the election on the advisory
measure(s), the Board shall meet to determine if any alteration to the levy of the
qualified special tax is advisable. In making this decision, the Board shall take
into consideration all relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the fiscal
status of the Members, the economic situation facing residents of the Authority,
the results of the advisoiy measure, and changes in the law. After consideration
of all factors, the Board may take action by majority vote to (a) cease or reduce
the tax levy; (b) continue the tax levy unaltered, or (c) call a new qualified special
tax election to replace the existing measure in accordance with all relevant laws;
provided, that a new qualified special tax measure which would make it possible
for the Authority to levy more than one qualified special tax measure at any one
time can only be placed on the ballot by an unanimous vote of all the Directors.

Any changes to the levy of the qualified special tax, including a decision to levy
the tax at a rate less than the maximum authorized by the ballot measure or to
cease levy of the qualified special tax authorized by the Agreement shall not take
effect until three years after the Board makes such a decision.

B.	Tax Exemptions

An exemption from payment of the education parcel tax may be granted on any
parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who occupies said
parcel as a principal residence, upon application for exemption and on any parcel
owned by one or more persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a
disability, regardless of age, who occupies said parcel as a principal residence
(“SSI Exemption”).

C.	Claims / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the
County Treasurer-Tax Collector, or other appropriate County tax official (“Tax
Official”), shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any
reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters
specific to the levy of the education parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen
Exemption and the SSI Exemption and the appropriate tax classification, the
decisions of the Authority, through its Agency, shall be final and binding. The
procedures described herein, and any additional procedures established by the
Agency shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an
exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the education parcel tax by
the Authority. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the Authority or
by the Tax Official shall be determined by the Agency, in coordination with the

(Continued on next page)

PR-905419-5

N LA 324-037

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE CL (Continued)

Tax Official as necessary. Taxpayers wishing to challenge any determination of
the Tax Official must do so under the procedures for correcting a
misclassification of property pursuant to Part 9 of Division 1 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a
refund of any tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax
refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

D.	Distribution of Proceeds

Pursuant to the Agreement, based on the Average Daily Attendance and
potential tax proceeds from parcels located within each school district, the
proceeds collected through the levying of the education parcel tax shall be
distributed as follows:

-	Forty percent (40%) shall be made available for use by Centinela.

-	Sixteen and six-tenths percent (16.6%) shall be made available for use by
Hawthorne.

-	Fourteen and seven-tenths percent (14.7%) shall be made available for use by
Lawndale.

-	Eight and seven-tenths percent (8.7%) shall be made available for use by
Lennox.

-	Twenty percent (20%) shall be made available for use by Wiseburn.

Any funds left unallocated shall be split equally among the Members eligible to
receive proceeds from the qualified special tax.

Pursuant to the Agreement, if any Member is reorganized under the Education
Code, the successor school district shall be substituted as a Member to the
Agreement, the successor school district shall receive any proceeds of the
qualified special tax dedicated in this Measure to the school district before its
reorganization, and the Authority shall continue to levy the special tax on parcels
contained within the successor school district pursuant to the Agreement.

E.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the
appropriations limit for any entity expending proceeds of the education parcel
tax will be adjusted periodically by the governing boards of the entity when
necessary to ensure that the proceeds of the education parcel tax may be spent by
the entity for authorized purposes.

PR-905419-6

N LA 324-038

(Continued on next page)

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE CL (Continued)

F.	Accountability Provisions

1.	Authority Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Authority shall
provide for the creation of an independent citizens’ oversight committee to
review the allocation of the qualified special taxes collected pursuant to the
Measure to ensure that moneys raised under this Measure are allocated in
accordance with this Measure. The independent oversight committee shall be
comprised of one member appointed by the governing board of each school
district receiving proceeds of the qualified special tax. Members of the governing
boards or superintendents of the Members are not eligible to serve on this
committee.

2.	Member District Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committees. Any Member
school district which expends proceeds of the qualified special tax shall create an
independent citizens’ oversight committee to review the expenditure of proceeds
of the qualified special tax to ensure that such proceeds are spent in accordance
with this Measure. The governing board of each Member Agency required to
create such a committee shall provide by resolution for the composition, duties,
funding, and other necessary information regarding the committee’s formation
and operation.

3.	Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the education parcel tax, the
Board shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds,
pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1. For so long as the tax is in effect,
the Treasurer of the Authority shall cause a report to be filed with the Board and
the governing board of its members no later than December 31 of each year,
commencing December 31, 2013, stating the amount collected and distributed to
each Member in such year. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal
year, or other appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine.

4.	Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the Measure shall constitute
the specific purposes of the education parcel tax, and proceeds thereof shall be
applied only for such purposes.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Measure concur,
that every section and part of this Measure has independent value, and the
Board and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of
every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this Measure by the voters,
should any part of the Measure or taxing formula be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the
Measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the
fullest extent allowed by law.

PR-905419-7

N LA 324-039

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE CL

By John F. Krattli, County Counsel

Approval of Measure CL would authorize the Board of Directors (“Board”) of
the Local Classrooms Funding Authority (“Authority”) to levy a special parcel
tax (“Tax”) of two cents (20) per square foot of lot for residential property, and
seven and one-half cents (7.50) per square foot of lot for non-residential
property, per year, on each parcel of taxable real property within the Authority
that receives a separate tax bill for property taxes. The Tax rate shall be adjusted
annually to account for inflation, based on the Consumer Price Index as defined
in the measure. Multiple parcels that are contiguous, under common ownership,
and contain one single-family residence, will be treated as a single parcel for
purposes of the Tax.

The Authority was created by a joint powers agreement with proceeds allocated
to member districts in an amount equal to 40% to Centinela Valley Union High
School District (“Centinela”), 16.6% to Hawthorne School District, 14.7% to
Lawndale School District, 8.7% to Lennox School District, and 20% to Wiseburn
School District. Any funds unallocated shall be split equally. The boundaries of
the Authority are the same as, and encompasses all property within, the
boundaries of Centinela. The Authority will place an advisory measure on the
ballot in 2024, and every four years thereafter, asking voters’ opinion regarding
continuation of the Tax. Such advisory measure is not binding on the Authority.
Levy of the Tax ceases upon termination of Authority.

Tax revenues shall only be applied for the specific purposes identified in the
measure, including protecting programs in math, science, and English; funding
special education; maintaining up-to-date computer and technology programs
and vocational classes for job and career training; preparing students for success
in college; keeping schools safe; and attracting and retaining teachers. No Tax
proceeds shall be used for administrators’ salaries.

All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes, or on which
ad valorem property taxes are not levied in any year, will be exempt from the
Tax. An exemption will also be granted on any parcel owned by one or more
persons, who are 65 years or older, or who receive Supplemental Security
Income for a disability, regardless of age, and who occupy a parcel as a principal
residence, upon application for exemption to the Authority.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905419-8

N LA 324-040

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE CL (Continued)

The proceeds of the Tax shall be deposited into a special account. An annual
written report shall be made to the Board showing the amount of funds collected
and distributed to each member district. The Authority shall appoint an
independent citizens’ oversight committee to review allocation of the Taxes
collected and to ensure money raised is properly allocated. Additionally, the
member school districts shall appoint independent citizens’ oversight committees
to review expenditures to ensure that Tax proceeds are spent for their authorized
purposes.

The Taxes levied under this Measure shall be collected by the Treasurer and Tax
Collector at the same time and manner, and subject to the same penalties, as
general ad valorem property taxes.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-905419-9

N LA 324-041

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE CL

Had enough of Sacramento budget cuts devastating your local schools? Yes
on CL improves education for all our students and guarantees our fair share of
local funding for:

—Hawthorne School District
—Lawndale Elementary School District
—Lennox School District
—Wiseburn School District
—Centinela Valley Union High School District

Over the last five years, California has seized a jaw-dropping $120 Million from
our local neighborhood schools. We can do something about it!

YES on CL raises over $11 million/year for schools in your neighborhood. Every
penny of the monev stays here, and NO MONEY CAN BE TAKEN BY
SACRAMENTO.

YES on CL improves the academic quality of our schools, keeping class sizes as
small as possible and giving students the teachers, computers and learning
technology they need for academic and career success.

YES on CL:

—Protects academic programs in math, science, and English
—Helps students with physical/learning disabilities or special needs
—Prepares students for success in college/universities

—Fosters student learning in computers and technology to prepare kids for
21st century jobs
—Prepares students to compete for jobs/careers
—Retains excellent teachers
—Supports school security

—Guarantees your community’s fair share of local education funding

Yes on CL also makes a Wiseburn community high school a reality! And Yes on
CL benefits all our communities by strengthening local property values.

Measure CL requires annual financial audits and Independent Citizens
Oversight Committees from each of our five school districts to ensure funds are
spent as promised. Seniors and those on disability are exempt from paying, and
no money can be used for administrators’ salaries.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905419-10

N LA 324-042

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE CL (Continued)

Enough is enough from Sacramento! Our local school districts have joined
together to pass Measure CL, ensuring our students get the quality education
they deserve. Join teachers, parents, seniors, and community leaders - vote
YES on CL!

Visit: www.yesonCLforlocalschools.com.

SHEILA LACOUR

Wiseburn School District Teacher of the Year
RAFAEL SANTOS

Member, School Site Councils, Hawthorne MS & Washington Elem.
ROSA ISIAH

Principal, Lucille J. Smith Elem. in Lawndale Elem. School District
RAMON PULIDO

Regional Commissioner, AYSO Region 21 Hawthorne
MARY DAVIS

Former Board Member, Lennox School District

PR-905419-11

N LA 324-043

This unfair tax will increase property owner’s obligation up to $200 or more per
year. An automatic cost of living increase is possible pushing the annual tax
burden even higher. Your tax bill is very prone to errors and taxpayers have little
recourse if the billing is beyond the proposed tax. Renters will get a monthly
increase. Monies received from the Parcel Tax go into a general fund and can be
used for any type of spending. Oversight committees have absolutely no
authority or say on how dollars are spent.

Actual funding per student has remained the same during the past three years.
The districts should have already been providing education for students with
disabilities and special needs as well as preparing them for college. School
security could be contracted with a local agency that provides the same service at
a much lower cost.

The senior exemption has many serious restrictions. You may be 65 years old
and still not be eligible. The decision to grant exemptions will be determined
entirely by designated individuals within the school districts. If you are a senior
renter, you will not receive an exemption.

Since 1998, taxpayers in these districts have been assessed property taxes for
payment of bonds totaling over $400 million. With all these tax dollars, our
children’s education is still among the poorest in the State, the drop-out rate is
among the highest in the State. Another tax is not the answer.

HAROLD HOFMANN

Mayor of Lawndale, Signed as a Private Citizen

KEVIN PORIZEK

El Camino Village Community Watch Association
SANDRA SUAREZ

Former School Board Member and Parent
JAMES H. OSBORNE

Lawndale Councilmember, Signed as a Private Citizen

PR-905419-12

N LA 324-044

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE CL

This is a proposed new tax by an improvised new government agency formed by a
coalition of school districts that with this tax they hope to accomplish what they
could not before the budget problems, which is, to run excellent schools. This
new agency will be led by the most failing of school districts: Centinela Valley.
They claim that per student funding has decreased by more than $2,000 in the
past three years when in fact it has decreased less than $500, according to their
own figures. This tax would be VERY UNFAIRLY DISTRIBUTED, with the
lion’s share going to Wiseburn ($l,154/student) and Centinela Valley High
Schools ($949/student), and the crumbs going to Lennox ($239/student),
Hawthorne ($294/student), and Lawndale ($367/student). The ballot text makes
unfounded claims such as this tax will allow students to get a high tech job and
earn a living, and the schools will finally become so good that property values will
go up. If they could not deliver excellent schools when the budget was not the
problem that it is today, they will not be able to do it now. Further, they propose
that if this tax is not approved, then they will reduce quality even more. It is
unacceptable for them to offer this outcome, when they should be embracing
cost-effective alternatives which include charter schools, supporting learning
collaboratives, and home education, which are proving to provide great results.
This tax is one of four proposed in this ballot to improve education, plus two
more for green projects and transportation. All these taxes are eroding the
affordability of the area, which will make it more difficult for graduates to find
jobs and earn a living.

PATRICK HOLMES

Friends & Alumni of Leuzinger H.S.

KEVIN PORIZEK

El Camino Village Community Watch Association

SANDRA SUAREZ

Former School Board Member and Parent

MS. DENISE L. SMITH

Homeowner, Businessowner, and Parent

PR-905419-13

N LA 324-045

Don’t let a small, disgruntled group from one school prevent over 33,000 local
students (from 37 schools in 5 school districts, including yours) from receiving
the education they need!

Aren’t you sick of politicians and critics complaining, when they have no
solutions? If so, vote YES on CL! Consider this:

Fact: We refuse to be victims of Sacramento politicians who’ve cut $120,000,000
from our local school districts. That’s why we’re jointly recommending
measure CL - raising $11,000,000 annually - for our local schools. All measure CL
funds are legally required to stay in your community - Sacramento can’t take a
dime. By law, NO money can be spent on administrators’ salaries/pensions.

Fact: Measure CL money goes directly to each school district and is legally
required to be spent on:

-	Protecting math, science, and English programs - giving students a solid foundation
for college and competition for jobs in today’s tough market.

-	Funding education for students with physical and/or learning disabilities,/special
needs.

-	Expanding student learning in computers/technology, allowing students to
compete in today’s high speed, technologically advanced economy.

Fact: annual audits and five independent Citizens’ Oversight committees (one
for each of our five school districts) ensure funds are spent as promised to you,
the taxpayer.

Those on disability and Seniors don’t pay Measure CL because they are exempt.

“Measure CL is a fair, equitable proposal to help our local schools. It puts control
of quality education into our hands, not Sacramento’s.” -Superintendents from
Hawthorne, Lawndale, Lennox, Wiseburn and Centinela Valley School Districts

ALEXANDRE MONTEIRO

President, Hawthorne School District Board of Education
CATHY BURRIS

President, Lawndale Elementary School District Board of Education
MARISOL CRUZ

President, Lennox School District Board of Education
NELSON MARTINEZ

President, Wiseburn School District Board of Trustees
ROCIO PIZANO

President, Centinela Valley Union High School District Board of
Education

PR-905419-14

N LA 324-046