Chapter 3.24 - TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
Sections:

FOOTNOTE(S):

— (7) -

For statutory provisions authorizing local taxes on transient occupancies, see Rev. and Tax Code §§7280 and

7281.

3.24.010-Title.

The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as the transient occupancy tax law of the city of

Exeter.

(Ord.	241 57, 1964)

3.24.020 - Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the following definitions shall govern the construction of this

chapter:

A.	"Hotel" means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or intended or designed
for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist
home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodginghouse, roominghouse, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed location, or other similar
structure or portion thereof. "Hotel" does not include a hospital room, medical clinic, convalescent home,
or home for the aged. Also, "hotel" does not include a private home, vacation cabin, or similar facility
which is rented by a person who is not regularly engaged in the business of renting such facilities and
does so only occasionally and incidentally to his own use thereof. "Hotel" also does not include a mobile
home or house trailer located within a mobile home park or a mobile home or house trailer occupied by a
tenant who is an employee of the owner or operator of the mobile home.

B.	"Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any room or rooms or
portion thereof in any hotel for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes.

C.	"Operator" means the person who is the proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee,
sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other capacity. If the operator performs his functions
through a managing agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall
also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and shall have the same duties and liabilities
as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this chapter by either the principal or the managing
agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.

D.	"Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal
organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or
any other group or combination acting as a unit.

E.	"Rent" means the consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy of space in a hotel
valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash,
credits and property and services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom.

F.	"Tax collector" means the tax collector of the county.

G.	"Transient" means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by reason of
concession, permit, right of access, license, or other agreement for a period of thirty consecutive calendar
days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a
hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty days has expired, unless there is an
agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy.
In determining whether a person is a transient, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and
subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter may be considered.

(Ord. 392 §1, 1978; Ord. 241 §2, 1964)

3.24.030 - Amount of tax—Payment by transient.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount
of eight percent of the rent charged by the operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the
city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The transient shall pay the tax to the
operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of
the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due when the transient ceases to occupy
space in the hotel. If the tax due is not paid to the operator, such tax shall be paid directly to the tax
administrator.

(Ord. No. 662, §1,11-6-2012; Ord. 241 §3, 1964)

3.24.040 - Exemptions.

A.	No tax shall be imposed upon the following persons and occupancies:

1.	Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the power of the city to impose
the tax provided in this chapter;

2.	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express provision of
federal law or international treaty;

3.	Any occupancy, by one or more occupants, for which the total rent paid by the occupants is less than
two dollars a day.

B.	No exemption shall be granted under subsections 1 or 2 of this section unless a claim of exemption in the
form prescribed by the tax collector is executed by the transient under penalty of perjury and filed with
the operator at the time rent is collected.

(Ord. 241 §4, 1964)

3.24.050	- Operator—Duties.

Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter to the same extent and at the same time as the
rent is collected from every transient. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the
rent charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment of the tax from the operator. No operator
of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof
will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that if added, any part
will be refunded except in the manner provided in this chapter.

(Ord. 241 §5, 1964).

3.24.060	- Operator—Registration.

Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in the city shall register
with the tax collector on a form provided by him. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later
than January 1,1965, or within thirty days after commencing business, whichever is later, but such privilege of
registration after the date of imposition of such tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of
collection and payment of tax on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of registration. Such
registration form shall set forth the name under which such person transacts or intends to transact business,
the location of his place or places of business, and such other information to facilitate the collection of the tax
as the tax collector may require. The registration form shall be signed by the owner if a natural person, by a
member or partner in case of an association or partnership, and by an executive officer or some person
specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the registration form in the case of a corporation. The tax
collector shall, within ten days after receiving such registration form, issue without charge a certificate of
authority to each registrant to collect the tax from transients, together with a duplicate thereof for each
additional place of business of such registrant. Such certificates shall be nonassignable and nontransferable
and shall be surrendered immediately to the tax collector upon the cessation of business at the location
named or upon sale or transfer of the hotel. Each certificate shall be prominently displayed in the hotel so as
to be seen and come to the notice readily of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. The certificate shall
contain the following information:

A.	The name of the operator;

B.	The address of the hotel;

C.	The date upon which the certificate was issued;

D.	The following statement:

"This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the person named on the face
hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Transient Occupancy Tax Law of the City of Exeter by
registering with the Tax Collector for the purpose of collecting from transients the Transient
Occupancy Tax and remitting said tax to the Tax Collector. This certificate does not authorize any
person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful manner,
nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all local applicable laws, including but not
limited to those requiring a permit from any board, commission, department, or office of this City.

This certificate does not constitute a permit."

E.	Such additional information as may be required by the tax collector.

(Ord. 241 §6, 1964).

3.24.070	- Operator—Reporting and remitting.

Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the calendar month following the close of each calendar
quarter, or at the close of any shorter reporting period which may be established by the tax collector, make a
return to the tax collector, on forms provided by him, of the total rents charged and received and the amount
of tax collected from transient occupancies. At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected
shall be remitted to the tax collector. The tax collector may establish shorter reporting periods for any
operator if he deems it necessary in order to insure collection of the tax, and he may require additional
information in the return. Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any
reason. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this chapter shall be held in trust for the account of the
city, until payment thereof is made to the tax collector.

(Ord. 241 §7, 1964).

3.24.080 - Remittance by mail.

If a remittance to cover a payment required by this chapter to be made to the tax collector on or before a
specified date is sent through the United States mail, properly addressed with postage prepaid, it shall be
deemed to have been received by the tax collector on the date shown by the post office cancellation mark
stamped upon the envelope containing the remittance, or on the date it was mailed if proof satisfactory to the
tax collector establishes that the mailing occurred on an earlier date. Nothing in this section shall be construed
as constituting payment of any remittance required, unless such remittance is actually received by the tax
collector.

(Ord. 241 §8, 1964).

3.24.090 - Nonpayment—Original delinquency.

Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter within the time required by Section

3.24.070	shall pay a penalty often percent of the total amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.

(Ord. 241 §9, 1964).

3.24.100 - Nonpayment—Continued delinquency.

Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or before the last day of the second
calendar month following the close of each calendar quarter shall pay a second delinquency penalty often
percent of the amount of the tax, in addition to the amount of the tax and the ten percent penalty first
imposed.

(Ord. 241 §10, 1964).

3.24.110 - Nonpayment—Fraud.

If the tax collector determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due under this chapter is due to
fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the
penalties stated in Sections 3.24.090 and 3.24.100 of this chapter.

(Ord. 241 §11, 1964).

3.24.120	- Nonpayment—Interest.

In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall
pay interest at the rate of one-half of one percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.

(Ord. 241 §12, 1964).

3.24.130 - Nonpayment—Penalties and interest merger with tax.

Every penalty imposed, and such interest as accrues under the provisions of Sections 3.24.090 through

3.24.120	shall become a part of the tax required by this chapter to be paid.

(Ord. 241 §13, 1964).

3.24.140 - Failure to collect and report tax.

If any operator fails or refuses to collect the tax and to make, within the time provided in this chapter, any
report and remittance of the tax or any portion thereof required by this chapter, the tax collector shall proceed
in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to base his estimate of the tax
due. As soon as the tax collector secures such facts and information as he is able to obtain upon which to base

the assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any operator who has failed or refused to
collect the same and to make such report and remittance, he shall proceed to determine and assess against
such operator the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this chapter. When such determination has been
made, the tax collector shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it
in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his last known address.
Such operator may, within ten days after the serving or mailing of such notice, make application in writing to
the tax collector for a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not made
within the ten-day period, the tax, interest and penalties determined by the tax collector shall become final
and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the tax collector shall give not
less than five days' written notice to the operator, in the manner prescribed in this section, to show cause at a
time and place fixed in the notice why the amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest
and penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax, interest
and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing, the tax collector shall determine the proper tax to be
remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the operator in the manner prescribed in this section of
such determination and the amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due
shall be payable fifteen days after the serving or mailing of such notice unless an appeal is taken as provided
in Section 3.24.170 of this chapter.

(Ord. 241 §14, 1964).

3.24.150 - Deficiency determinations.

If the tax collector is not satisfied with a return filed by an operator or the amount of the tax required to
be paid to the city pursuant to a return, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon
the basis of the facts contained in the return or upon the basis of any information within his possession or
that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due
for any period. The tax collector shall give to the operator written notice of his determination in the same
manner as provided in Section 3.24.140. The operator shall be entitled to apply for a hearing on the amount
assessed to him pursuant to the procedure set forth in Section 3.24.140 and shall thereafter be entitled to
appeal to the city council in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.24.170. The penalties and interest
provided by Sections 3.24.090 through 3.24.120. shall be applicable to the amount of deficiency established
pursuant to this section.

(Ord. 241 §15, 1964).

3.24.160 - Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax collector under this chapter, it may be refunded
provided a verified claim in writing therefor, stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded, is
filed with the tax collector within three years from the date of payment. The claim shall be made on forms
provided by the tax collector. If the claim is approved by the tax collected, the excess amount collected or paid
may be refunded or may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person from whom it
was collected or by whom paid; and the balance may be refunded to such person, his administrators or
executors.

(Ord. 241 §16, 1964).

3.24.170 - Appeals.

Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the tax collector may appeal to the city council by filing a notice
of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen days after the serving or mailing of the notice of the decision. The
city council shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the city clerk shall give notice in writing to
such operator at his last known address. The decision of the city council shall be final and conclusive and shall
be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed in this section for service of notice of hearing. Any
amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of the notice.

(Ord. 241 §17, 1964).

3.24.180- Records.

Every operator liable for the collection and payment to the city of any tax imposed by this chapter shall
keep and preserve, for a period of three years, all records necessary to determine the amount of such tax as
he may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the city. The tax collector shall have the right to
inspect the records at all reasonable times.

(Ord. 241 §18, 1964).

3.24.190 - Actions to collect unpaid tax.

Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt
owed by the transient to the city. Any such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the city
shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person owing money to the city under the
provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city for the recovery of such
amount.

(Ord. 241 §19, 1964).

3.24.200 - Unlawful acts.

It is unlawful for any operator or other person required to do so to fail or refuse to furnish any return
required to be made, or to fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the tax
collector, or to render a false or fraudulent return or claim. It is also unlawful for any person required to make,
render, sign, or verify any report or return to make any false or fraudulent report or return with intent to
defeat or evade the determination of any amount due required by this chapter to be made.

(Ord. 241 §20, 1964).

3.24.210 - Violation—Penalty.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter which are declared to be unlawful shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.

(Ord. 241 §21, 1964).