>th Sides

L BALLOT

Precinct 0033901

m. REPEAT FELONY
ttES.

fe sentence only when
serious or violent May
if third strike conviction
it, Fiscal Impact:

I savings of around
even greater savings
ihe next couple of
fe could vary
am future state actions.

MNEERED FOODS.

k sold to consumers
mats with genetiG
Iclfied ways, Prohibits
lather processed food,
|emptions. Fiscal
k state costs from a
Mars to over $1 million
If genetically
ilorral, butllketynot
| costs to address
[sure.

pATiON AND EARLY

MS.

i

jigs using Sliding
Revenues go to K-12
jod programs, and for
jtedebt Fiscal
lax revenues for 12
annually in initial
jar time. Funds used

id oroneh/v-ii an w«n

40-RED1STR1CTING. STATE SENATE
DISTRICTS.

REFERENDUM.

A "Yes" vote approves, and a “No1' vote rejects,
new State Senate districts drawn by the
Citizens Recfistrfotlng Commission, if rejected,
districts will bs adjusted by officials supervised
by the California Supreme Court, Fiscal
Impact: Approving the referendum would have
np fiscal impact or? foe state and local
governments. Rejecting the referendum would
result in a one-time cost of about $1 million to
the state and counties.

Yss

No

CITY

DD*Cfty of Los Afamttos
Decrease the Rate and Modernize the
Telephone Users Tax to Preserve and Fund
Important City Services

Shall an ordinance be adopted to reduce the '
rale of the City's taxon telecommunications
users from 8% to 5%, modernize the language
to treat taxpayers equally, regardless of
technology used, and continue to use the
proceeds to fund general municipal services,
such as safety, parks and recreation, and street
maintenance?

CZI Yes

cm no

Sample Ballot

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE DD
CITY OF LOS ALAMiTOS

ORDINANCE NO. 2012-04

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LOS AL AMJTOS, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING AND
REPLACING PORTIONS OF CHAPTER 3.20 OF THE LOS ALAMITOS MUNICIPAL
CODE TO DECREASE THE RATE AND MODERNIZE THE TELEPHONE USERS TAX
TO PRESERVE AND FUND IMPORTANT CITY SERVICES.

WHEREAS, the City of Los Afamitos has collected a Telephone Users Tax (TUT) since 1931 and the current rate o< the TUT is 6%;

WHEREAS, the City desires to reduce the tax rate on telecommunications services from 6% to 5%;

WHEREAS, the City desires totreat users of communications services in a uniform and equitable manner, regardless of the means of transmission
or technology used, so that users of communications services transmitted by traditional technologies (such as land lines) do not bear a greater tax burden
than users of communications services transmitted via newly developed technologies;	J

WHEREAS, telephony and related communications services have changed dramatically since the inception of the TUT and communications j
technology, telephone calling and marketing plans, and the state and federal legislation that regulates them, continue to evolve at a rapid pace;

WHEREAS, In particular, communications are no longer accomplished entirely through the switched network, wireless service has become j
prevalent, communications through other means are increasing in popularity, the overall cost of communications is declining, common charges are no j
longer based upon distance and the federal government has bsen extremely active in adopting laws affecting the telecommunications industry;	j

WHEREAS, any moderni2ation and clarification of the TUT to include current technologies and reflect the realities of the current communications
industry requires voter approval under the California Constitution;

WHEREAS, the revenue generated by the TUT is likely to be lost over time due to market erosion, changing technology and other factors;

WHEREAS, the City needs the revenue generated by the TUT to continue to provide essential City services such as safety services, street
maintenance and park and recreation services.

NOW, THEREFORE,

The People of the City of Los Alamitos do ordain, as follows:

Section 1. The following sections of Chapter 3.20 of the Los Alamitos Municipal Code are hereby added, amended and replaced to read as follows:

3.20.040 Definitions.

j	Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this Section govern the construction of this Chapter.

j	1. “Ancillary Telecommunications Services" means services that are associated with or incidental 1o the provision, use or enjoyment of

j Telecommunications Services, including but not limited to the following services:

(1)	services that link two or more participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision of a telephone number.

(2)	services that separately state information pertaining to individual calls on a customer's billing statement.

(3)	services that provide telephone number information and/or address information.

(4)	services offered in connection with one or more telecommunications services that offer advanced calling features that allow
customers to identify caflers and to manage multiple calls and call connections.

(5)	services that enable the customer to store, send or receive recorded messages.

2.	“Billing Address" means the mailing address of the Service User where the Service Supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the
customer.

3.	“City” means the city of Los Alamitos.

4.	“Gas” means natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel which may be substituted therefor.

5.	“Month'’ means a calendar month.

6.	“Person” means without (imitation, any domestic, non-profit or foreign corporation, firm, association, syndicate, joint-stock company,
partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, trust, limited liability company, business or common-law trust, society, any natural individual, cooperative,
receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court, or any municipal corporation {other than the City),

7.	“Private Communications Services” means any dedicated virtual or actual Telecommunications Services that entitle the user to the exclusive
or priority use of communications channels.

8.	“Service Supplier" means any Person or entity required to collect or self-impose and remit a tax as imposed by this chapter

9.	“Service User" means a Person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter.

10.	‘Tax Administrator” means the city manager or his/her designee.

11.	'Telecommunications Services" means the transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or
signals to a point, or between or among points, whatever the technology used, whether such transmission, conveyance or routing occurs by wire, cable,
fiber-optic, light wave, laser, microwave, radio wave (including, but not limited to, cellular service, commercial mobile service, personal communications
service (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR) and other types of personal wireless service, regardless of radio spectrum used, switching facilities, satellite
or any other technology now existing or developed after the adoption of this section, and includes, without limitation, liber optic, coaxial cable and wifeless.

The term “Telecommunications Services" includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on
the form, code or protocol of the content tor purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such servicesare referred to as voice
over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or
data services that is functionally integrated with Telecommunications Services. Telecommunications Services indude, but are not limited to the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are caicuiated or bided: central office and custom calling features (including but not
limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caifer identification and three-way calling), local number portability, text messaging, Ancillary Telecommunication
Services; prepaid and post-paid services (including but not limited to prepaid calling cards); mobile telecommunications service; Private Communication
Service; paging service; and 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission). Telecommunication
Service does not include charges for internet access services the taxation of which is prohibited by Federal Law, video programming services or digital
downloads, such as downloads of books, music, ringtones, games and similar digital products.

12.	“Telephone Corporation,1’ “Electrical Corporation,3 "Gas Corporation,” and “Water Corporalion,”shall have the same meanings as defined in
Sections 234,218,222.241, respectively, oftha California Public Utilities Code except, “Electrical Corporation,” "Gas Corporation” and “Water Corporation"
shall also be construed to include any municipality or public agency engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power or Gas or water to a Service User.
“Electrical Corporation” shall include any organization or municipality or agency engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power to a Service User.

3.20.050 Constitutional exemptions; effect of state and federal authorization.

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
\ California statute, the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of California. To the extent that the City's authorization to impose or
collect the tax imposed in this Chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in stale or federal law, no amendment or modification of this Chapter
shall be required .to conform the tax to those changes, and the fax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the City’s authorization up to the full
amount of the tax imposed by this Chapter.

3.20.070 Telecommunication Users Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every Person with a Billing Address or service address in (he City who uses Telecommunication Services,
including intrastate, interstate (including calls to the District of Columbia), and international Telecommunications Services, to the extent permitted by state
and federal law. The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) on the charges made lor Telecommunication Services and shall be
collected from the Service User by the Service Supplier or its billing agent. To the sxient allowed by law, ihe tax on Telecommunication Services shall apply
to a Service User if the Billing Address or service address of the Service User is within the City’s boundaries.

B.	Except as otherwise provided herein, Telecommunication Services shall include all Telecommunication Service for which there is a charge*
regardless of the means or technology used to provide such services. The tax imposed under Subsection A, above shall not be imposed upon any Person
for using the following Communications Services:

(1)	Except with respect to local telephone service, services used in Ihe collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker service
furnishing a generai news service similar to that of the public press or radio broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news through the public press, or
a news ticker service furnishing a general news service similar to that of thepublic press or by means of radio broadcasting, if the charge for such
service is billed in writing to such Person.

(2)	Services furnished to a public international organization in which the United States participates pursuant to treaty or Act of Congress,
or to the American National Red Cross.

(3)	Any toll telephone service which originates within a combat zone and is from a member of the Armed Forces of the United States
performing service in such combat zone; provided a certificate, setting forth such facts as the Secretary of the United States Treasury may by
regulations prescribe, is furnished to the Person receiving such payment.

(4)	No tax shall be imposed under this Section on the amount paid for any Telecommunication Services to the extent that the amount so
paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company, or radio broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its business.

(5)	The instalfation of any instrument, wire, pole, switchboard, apparatus or equipment as is properly attributable to such installation.

(6)	Amounts paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to such organization. For purposes of this exemption, the term “nonprofit
hospital" means a hospital referred to in Section 170(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Internal Revenue Code, which is exempt from federal income tax under
Section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.

(7)	Services or facilities furnished to the government of any state, or any political subdivision thereof.

(8)	Services or facilities paid for by a nonprofit educational organization and furnished to such organization. For purposes of this
subsection, the term “nonprofit educational organization" means an educational organization that is exempt from income tax under Section 501 (a) .
of the internal Revenue Code. The term aiso includes a school operated as an activity of an organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code, which is exempt from income tax under Section 501(a) of the same code, if such school normally maintains a regular
faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where its educational activities
are regularly carried on.

C.	As used in this Section, the term "charges” shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the Service User in exchange for the Telecommunication Services.

D.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of Telecommunication Services subject to tax under this Section, any Service User, upon proof to
the Tax Administrator that the Service User owed and has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such Telecommunication Services, shall
be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state or city; provided, however, Ihe amount
of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this Section.

E.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this Chapter, “substantial nexus" and "minimum contacts”
shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as it
may change from time to lime by judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any Telecommunication Services used by a Person with a service
address in the City, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts" exists for purposes of imposing a fax, or
establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this Chapter. For Telecommunication Services for which there is no Billing Address or primary physical
location for the provision of services, Ihe service address shall mean the point of sate of the services.

3.20.110 Penalty and interest.

A.	Taxes collected from a Service User or owed by a Service User which are not remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the due dates
provided in this Chapter are delinquent and are subject to penallies and interest. If the Person required to collect and/or remit a tax imposed under this
Chapter fails to collect and remit the tax, such taxes are delinquent.

B.	Any Person who fails to remit faxes collected in the time required by this, chapter shall pay a penalty of five percent of the amount of the tax, and
„ if not remitted within two working days after the date of delinquency, shall pay a total penalty of twenty (20) percent of the amount of lax owed. Such penalty

shall attach to the amount of tax due and shall be paid by the person required to collect and remit the tax.

C.	When fraud or gross negligence in reporting and remitting tax collections is discovered, the tax administrator shall have power to impose
additional penalties of twenty (20) percent of taxes owed upon persons required to collect and remit taxes under the provisions of this chapter.

D.	Any Person required to remit to the tax administrator delinquent taxes as required in this section, shall pay interest at (he rate of one and
one-half percent per month, or portion thereof, on the amount of tax owed exclusive of penallies. from the date on which the tax first became delinquent until
paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (B) and (D) of this section, no penalty or interest shall be applied if delinquencies are the result of
natural disasters or other phenomena beyond the control of the person charged with collecting and remitting the tax, provided the person being delinquent

<---------------------------------------------  *............................................        W.*,-",.............   *------—-- ----------

notifies the tax administrator as soon as normal communications permit.

F.	Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this Chapter shall become a part of the tax required to be remitted.

3.20.120 Actions to collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a Service User under the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the Service User to the City. Any
such tax collected from a Service User which has not been remitted to the T ax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the Person required
to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the Service User. In Ihe event that a Service Supplier required to collect and remit a lax under the
provisions of this Chapter fails to do so in whole or in part, the amount of such unremitted tax shall be deemed a debt owed by the Service Supplier to the
City. Any Person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of
such amount, plus any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the Person's noncompliance with this Chapter, including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorney's tees.

3.20.130 Duty to collect—Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this Chapter shall be performed as follows:

A.	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along with the charges made in accordance with tire regular billing
practices qf the Service Supplier. Where the amount paid by a Service User to a Service Supplier is less than the full amount of the utility charge and tax
which has accrued for the billing period, such amount and any subsequent payments by a Service User shaft be applied to the utility charge first until such
charge has been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be applied to taxes due.

B.	The duty to collect tax from a Service User shall commence with the beginning of the first full regular billing period applicable to the Service
User where all charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where a Person receives more than one billing,
one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing.

C.	The taxes imposed by this Chapter shad be collected from the Service User by the Service Supplier. The amount of tax collected in one (1)
Month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following Month.
Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return may be made on the first regular working day following a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday. If a Service Supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the Service Supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax

I Adminislrator the name, address and telephone number of each biding agent and billing aggregator current!/ authorized by the Service Supplier to bid,
j collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the
| possession of such biding agent or bifling aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

D.	Each Person required by this Chaplerto remit a tax shall file a return with the Tax Adminislrator on forms approved by the Tax Administrator on
or before the due date. The full amount of the tax owed shall be included with the return and filed wilh the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is
authorized to require such further information as he or she deems necessary to properly determine if the tax here imposed is being levied and collected in
accordance with this Chapter. Returns and remiltances are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to California Revenue i
and Taxation Code § 7284,6, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as confidential information, and not subject to the Public j
Records Act.

E.	The Tax Administrator may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to Service Suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements
of this Section, administrative rulings identifying those services, that are subject to the taxes imposed by this Chapter or otherwise interpreting the provisions
of this Chapter. To the extent that the Tax Administrator determines that any tax imposed under this Chapter shall not be collected in full for any period of
time, such a determination falls within the Tax Administrator's discretion to settle disputes. The Tax Administrator’s exercise of prosecutorial forbearance
under this Section does noi constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750, and the City does not waive or
abrogate its ability to impose the taxes under this Chapter in full as a result of issuing such administrative rulings.

3.20.150 Assessment—Administrative remedy.

A.	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not remitted by a Person required to remit.

B.	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a Service User has deliberately withheld the amount of Ihe tax owed by him from the amounts
remitted to a Service Supplier, or that a Service User has failed to pay the amount of the tax fora period of two (2) or more billing periods, or whenever the
Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she may relieve the Service Supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due under this Chapter
from certain named Service Users for specified billing periods. The Service Supplier shall provide the City with the names and addresses of such Service
Users and the amounts of taxes owed or refused by the Service Users under the provisions of this Chapter.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the Service User that he or she has assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and
demand payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the Service User by handing it to him or her personally or by deposit of Ihe notice in the United
States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the Service User at the address to which billing was made by the Service Supplier; or should the Service
User have changed his or her address, to his or her last known address. If a Service User fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15)
days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, which shall be the date of mailing if service is not accomplished in person, a penalty of
twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, along with interest at the rate of three-quarters of one percent
{%%) per Month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until
paid, but not less than Five Dollars ($5.00). The penalty shad become part of the tax herein required to be paid.

3.20.160 Records.

A.	It shall be the duty of every Person required to collect and/or remit to ths City any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, fora period
of at least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of and
remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's designated representative, shall have Ihe right to
inspect at all reasonable times.

B.	If any Person subject to record-keeping under this Section unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator’s designated
representative, access to such records, the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's designated representative, may impose a penalty of five hundred
dollars ($500) on such Person for each day following the initial date that the Person refuses to provide such access. This penalty shall be in addition-to any
other penalty imposed under this Chapter,

3.20.170 Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this Chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this Section.

B.	The Tax Administrator may refund to the taxpayer any tax that has been overpad, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter, provided that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless the
taxpayer or his or her guardian, conservator, executor or administrator has submitted a written claim signed by the claimant to the Tax Administrator within
one year of the overpayment or erroneous or iffegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by written records [
showing entitlement thereto. No claim may be filed on behaif of a class or group of taxpayers unless such claim is signed by each taxpayer included in the j

1

class or group,

C.	The Tax Administrator may refund to a Service Supplier any tax that has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter, provided that the Service Supplier has submitted a written claim signed by the
Service Supplier to the Tax Administrator within one year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish
that the tax sought to be refunded was collected from (he Service User, that the Service User from whom the fax was collected did not owe the tax and that

I the amount of the tax sought to be refunded was refunded in kill to the Service User prior to the Service Supplier submitting the claim,

D.	The submission of a written claim, which is acted upon by the City Council, shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. The City Council shall act
| upon the refund claim within the time period set forth in Government Code Section 912.4. If the City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the
I time prescribed by Government. Code Section 912.4, the claim shall be deemed to be rejected by the City Council on the last day of the period within which

the City Council was required to act upon the claim as provided in Government Code Section 912.4. It is the intent of the City Council that the one year
written claim requirement of this section be given retroactive effect; provided, however, that any claims which arose prior to the commencement of the one
year claims period of this Section, and which are not otherwise barred by a then-applicable statute of limitations or claims procedure, must be filed with the
Tax Administrator as provided in this subsection within ninety (90) days following the effective date of this Section.

E.	Notwithstanding other provisions of this Section, whenever a Service Supplier, pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities
Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, makes a refund to Service Users of charges for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to this Chapter
on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded to Service Users, and the Service Supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for such
refunded taxes against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly return.

3.20.200 Bundling taxable and non-taxabie charges.

If a non-faxable service and a taxable service are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the
Service Supplier or taxpayer reasonabfy identifies actual charges not subject to the utility users tax based upon books and records that are kept in the
regular course of business, in a manner consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. The Service Supplier or Taxpayer has the burden of
proving the proper apportionment of taxable and nontaxable charges.

3.20.210 Exemptions.

A. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon:

(1)	Any Person or service if imposition of such tax upon that Person or service would be in violation of a federal or California statute, the
Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of California;

j	(2)	The City;

!	(3)	Any person who is exempt under section 3.20.050 of this Chapter;

|	B.	The exemptions granted by this Section shall not eliminate the duty of the Service Supplier from collecting taxes from such exempt individuals,

i or the duty of such exempt individuals from paying such taxes to the Service Supplier; unless an exemption is applied for by the Service User and granted in
I accordance with the provisions of this Section.

i	C. Any Service User exempt from the taxes imposed by this Chapter because of the provisions of subsection A, above, may file an application

I with the Tax Administrator for an exemption. Such application shall be made upon a form supplied by the Tax Administrator; and shall state those facts,
j declared under oath, which qualify the applicant for an exemption.

|	D. The Tax Administrator shall review all such applications, and shatl certify as exempt those applicants determined to qualify therefor; and shall

i notify all Service Suppliers affected that such exemptions have been approved. For each exemption, the following information shall be transmitted to the
I Service Supplier:

(1)	Name of exempt applicant;	i

i

(2)	Account number shown on utility bill;

(3)	Address to which exempt service is being supplied; and

(4)	Any other information as may be necessary for the Service Supplier to remove the exempt Service User from its tax billing procedure.

E.	Upon receipt of such notice, the Service Supplier shall not be required to continue to bill any further tax imposed by this Chapter from such
exempt Service User, until further notice by the Tax Administrator is given. The Service Supplier shall eliminate such exempt Service User from its tax billing

j procedure no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of such notice from the Tax Administrator.

F.	All exemptions shall continue and be renewed automatically by the Tax Administrator, so long as the prerequisite facts supporting the initial
j qualification for exemption shall continue; provided, however, that the exemption shall automatically terminate with any change in the service address or
j residence of the exempt individual; further provided such individual may nevertheless apply fora new exemption with each change of address or residence.

!	G. The Tax Administrator shall have the power and right to demand evidence of continued eligibility of a Service User for exemption under the

[ provisions of this Section. Such evidence may include, but need not be limited to, copies of business records, letters or statements from the Social Security
! Administration, copies of income tax returns, and such other evidence concerning the Service User orother members of his or her household as may tend to
prove or disprove such eligibility. Failure to provide such evidence as is within the control of a Service User to so provide, either directly by him or by his
consent or.the consent of a member of his or her household when such evidence is requested of the Service User in writing by the Tax Administrator, shall be
grounds for the immediate discontinuance of the Service User's eligibility for exemption under the provisions of this Section, Evidence provided to the Tax
Administrator upon request, or voluntarily provided by the Service User without request, may not be used against such Service User as evidence of violation
of the provisions of this Section; such evidence may only be used as grounds for termination of the exemption herein provided..

H. Any individual exempt from the tax shall notify the Tax Administrator within ten (10) days of any change in fact or circumstance which might
disqualify said individual from receiving such exemption, it shatl be a misdemeanor for any Person to knowingly receive the benefits of the exemptions
provided by this Section, when the basis for such exemption either does not exist or ceases to exist.

i.	Notwithstanding any of the provisions hereof, any Service Supplier who determines by any means that a new or nonexempt Service User is
receiving service through a meter or connection exempt by virtue of an exemption issued to a previous user or exempt user of the same meter or connection,
such Service Supplier shall immediately notify the Tax Administrator of such fact; and the Tax Administrator shall conduct an investigation to ascertain
whether or not the provisions of this Section have been complied with, and where appropriate, order fhe Service Supplier to commence collecting the tax
from the nonexempt Service User.

J. If the Tax Administrator determines that an application for exemption is faulty, or that the applicant has failed to truthfully sel forth such facts,
the application for the exemption shad be denied in writing to the applicant. The applicant shad thereafter have a right to file an amended application for
exemption; or to appeal the Tax Administrator's decision to the City Manager within a 10-day period after the mailing date of the Tax Administrator's
rejection. In the case of an appeal, the City Manager shall review the tacts in consultation with the City Attorney, and shall render a final determination on
such appeal.

K, Upon request of the Tax Administrator, a Service Supplier, or its billing agent, shall provide a list of the names and addresses of those
customers which, according to its billing records, are deemed exempt from any tax imposed under this Chapter.

3.20,220 No injunction or writ of mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or
against any officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and/or remitted.

3,20.230 Annua! Review and Report.

The City shall prepare an annual report regarding the Utility Users Tax setting forth thB amount of tax collected under this Chapter during the
preceding fiscal year, a comparison of the amount of tax collected as compared to prior years and any recommendations concerning the audit or
expenditure of the funds collected and/or remitted in accordance with this Chapter. Such annual report shall be presented to the City. Council and shall be a
public document and made available to the public.

3.20.240 Amendment or repeal.

Taxes imposed by this Chapter may be decreased, repealed or amended by the City Council, but may not be increased without a vote of the people
as required in California Constitution Article XHIC and California Government Code Section 53750(h).

j	Section	2. Majority Approval. This Ordinance shall be effective only If approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon (50% +1) and shall go

into effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council.	>

Section 3. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force
1 and effect. The people of the City of Los Aiamitos hereby declare that they would have adopted each section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
J Ordinance, irrespective of.the fact that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Chapter be declared invalid or
unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this Ordinance are severable.

Section 4. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance fay signing where indicated below.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF LOS ALAMIT0S
MEASURE DO

Measure DD is submitted to the voters by the Los Aiamitos City Council to: (i) reduce the rate of the City’s Telephone Users Tax ("TUT’} to 5%; and
(ii) update the TUT so that it can be applied equally both to older telephone technology and to newer telecommunications technology.

Background.

Residents of Los Aiamitos have paid the TUT on charges for telephone services since 1991. The current rate of the TUT is 6%. TUT revenues are
paid into the City's general fund, which is allocated by the City Council through the annual budget for general city services and purposes.

In past years, the City of Los Aiamitos, and most California cities with TUTs* relied on federal law definitions of what specific telephone services to
tax, by making references to the federal law in the ioca! laws. However, the federal government changed its interpretation of these definitions over time.
Also, telephone technology has changed greatly since the adoption of the TUT. Telephone companies have introduced cell phone service, voice over j
j internet protocol, fixed rate billing plans and many other new services and features. It is expected that telephone companies will continue to develop new
forms of telecommunications technology in the future.

The Measure.

Measure DD lowers the tax rate for the TUT from the current amount of 6% to 5% and applies the tax to all telephone services regardless of j
technology. The City Council may not increase the TUT in Ihe future without voter approval.	I

Measure DD would ratify an ordinance previously adopted by the City Council to remove references to the federal law definitions in its TUT.

Measure DD would replace older definitions with modernized language to address new technologies and to treat allphone customers the same lor
local tax purposes, whether they use traditional Jandline phones, cell phones, VOIP or some new form of telecommunication service invented in the future.

Existing prohibitions on taxing internet access under Federal law would not be affected by Measure DD.

Measure DD also requires that the City report annually on the amount of tax collected by phone carriers, paid to the City and spent by the City
according to the requirements of Measure DD and older laws. These reports will be available to the public.

Measure DD requires approval of a majority of voters.

Effect.

A “yes" vote for Measure DD will approve the clarifications described above and reduce the tax rate to 5%; a “no” vote against Measure DD will leave
in place the City’s existing Telephone Users Tax Ordinance at (he existing 6% rate.

! sf Sandra J. Levin
I Los Aiamitos City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE DD

Measure DD will reduce Los Aiamitos’ current telephone users tax (TUT)
rate by 1%, cutting the tax rate for customers, and modernizing the law to
ensure uniform applicability for all communications technologies,

The TUT was first adopted in 1991 and telephone technology and service
plans have dramatically changed since then.

Recent Federal regulatory decisions and court cases have created the risk
{ that the TUT laws of mos! cities, relating to telecommunications, could be
challenged. This would endangers portion of $650,000 of the city's budget.
Like many other cities, Los Aiamitos is updating its telephone users tax
statute and providing residents with a tax cut as well.

We're on the right track as.we continue to improve our quality of life in Los
Aiamitos, but not if we let a change in technology and law eliminate TUT tax.

The City Council has responsibly managed the City’s funds including TUT
revenues. The City Council stabilized and consolidated our city
management, cut Council pay, reduced spending by 13%, and balanced
f our budget without dipping into our reserves. We have seen a 5 year
\ decrease in crime across the city of Los Aiamitos.

[ A NO vote on Measure DD would keep rates where they are and leave
some customers not paying their fair share on new communications
technology, and would leave the present outdated law vulnerable to
challenge.

A YES vote on Measure DD would ensure that we can continue to provide
quality services vital to Los Aiamitos including police, firefighters, street
repaving, and quality of life programs supporting parks, senior and youth
recreation programs.

I Help us cut the TUT rate by 1% and keep Los Aiamitos strong, safe and
I secure and provide the quality services our city expects. Please vote YES
on Measure DD.

| Measure DD was supported by a unanimous vote of the council members
present.

s/ Troy Edgar
Mayor

s/ Marilynn Poe
Mayor ProTem

s/ Kenneth G. Stephens
Council Member

| $/ Warren Kusumoto
I Council Member

No.argument against this measure was submitted.