Agenda Section: Other Business
Agenda Item #6

Report #12-73

Staff Report
Council Meeting Date:
June 11, 2012

ITEM FOR COUNCIL CONSIDERATION:

November 6, 2012 General Municipal Election Matters

Department: Administration

City Manager

Cify Clerk

STAFF recommendation:

Action Item _X_; Non-Action Item___

1.	Adopt Resolution No. 5384, calling for the holding of a General Municipal Election
on Tuesday, November 6, 2012, for the election of certain officers relating to General Law
Cities and for the submission to the voters of a question relating to increasing the rate of
the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax (“hotel bed tax”);

2.	Adopt Resolution No. 5385, requesting the Board of Supervisors of the County of
Santa Barbara to consolidate a General Municipal Election to be held on November 6,

2012, with the Statewide General Election to be held on the date pursuant to Section
10403 of the Elections Code;

3.	Adopt Resolution No. 5386, establishing regulations for candidates for elective
office pertaining to Candidates Statements submitted to voters at an election to be held
on Tuesday, November 6, 2012;

4.	Adopt Resolution No. 5387, setting priorities for filing Written Arguments
regarding a City Measure submitted at the November 6, 2012 General Municipal Election
relating to an increase in the rate of the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax (“hotel bed tax”),
and directing the City Attorney to prepare an Impartial Analysis;

5.	Adopt Resolution No. 5388, providing for the filing of Rebuttal Arguments for a
City Measure submitted to voters at the Municipal Election of November 6, 2012.

Motion: I move that the City Council adopt Resolution Nos. 5384 through 5388, as
read by title only, all concerning requisite actions associated with the November

6.	2012, General Municipal Election Matters.

Background:

On November 6, 2012, a City of Carpinteria Municipal Election is scheduled where two
City Council members will be elected for four year terms. Also, in response to the City
Council’s direction at its regular meeting of May 14, 2012, staff has included in the
requisite election resolutions a question concerning increasing the rate of the City’s
hotel bed tax, i.e., Transient Occupancy Tax. If approved by the City Council, this
question will also be considered by City of Carpinteria voters as a part of the November
6, 2012, Municipal Election.

The California Elections Code requires that certain resolutions be adopted preparatory
to holding the City’s General Municipal Election on November 6, 2012. The attached
Resolution Nos. 5384 through 5388 will do the following:

1.	Set the date and time of the election for two seats on the City Council and place
the measure increasing the hotel bed tax rate increase from 10% to 12% on the
ballot (Resolution No. 5384).

2.	Request that the County Board of Supervisors consolidate the City’s Municipal
Election with the Statewide General Election (Resolution No. 5385).

3.	Establish the City’s rules with regard to filing of Candidate Statements and
payments to the City for printing expenses (Resolution No. 5386).

4.	Establish priorities for the filing of Written Arguments regarding the City Measure
to increase the hotel bed tax rate and directing the City Attorney to prepare an
Impartial Analysis (Resolution No. 5387).

5.	Provide for the filing of Rebuttal Arguments for the City hotel bed tax rate
increase Measure (Resolution No. 5388).

II. Analysis:

The California Elections Code establishes the procedure for consolidation in Sections
10400-10418. The procedure requires the City Council to request consolidation at the
same time as the resolution calling the election is adopted. These resolutions authorize
the agency conducting the election (County of Santa Barbara) to conduct the election
on behalf of the City and to canvass the results.

The Elections Code also requires the Council to adopt regulations for candidates for
elective office pertaining to candidate statements.

Finally, pursuant to the California Elections Code, in association with any city Measures
approved to be placed on a ballot for local election, a city must approve the title and
question to be placed on the ballot; the City Attorney must prepare an impartial analysis
of the measure; the city must comply with rules concerning the filing and selection of
arguments for and against the Measure; and the city must establish rules for rebuttal
arguments (to be included on the ballot), should the city wish to allow them.

III. Financial Issues:

The estimated cost of $25,000 associated with conducting a consolidated municipal
election have been included in the proposed budget being considered as a separate

2

matter on the June 11, 2012, agenda. Some costs associated with the printing of
candidate statements are reimbursed through fees charged to the candidates.

IV. Legal Issues:

The City Attorney has assisted in the preparation of Resolution Nos. 5384 through
5388, including the attached draft Ordinance and other materials concerning the hotel
bed tax rate increase ballot measure. The following provides guidance regarding the
timing and procedure for approval of said Resolutions.

Resolution Nos. 5384, 5385 and 5388 must be approved by the City at the same time
and submitted to the County no later than August 9, 2012. Staff recommends that
Resolution Nos. 5386 and 5387 also be approved at the same time.

Elections Code Section 10403 provides that whenever an election called by a city for
the submission of a question, proposition or office to be filled is to be consolidated with
a statewide election, and the question, proposition or office to be filled is to appear on
the same ballot as that provided for the statewide election, the city shall file with the
Board of Supervisors a resolution of its governing board requesting consolidation. The
resolution requesting consolidation must be filed at least 88 days prior to the date of the
election.

In addition, the resolution calling for the election must be adopted and filed at the same
time as the resolution requesting consolidation. The resolution providing for the
submission of rebuttal arguments must also be approved at the same time as the
resolution calling for the election, Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9285(b).

Also, pursuant to Government Code Section 53724(b), no tax subject to vote
requirements, such as the hotel bed tax, shall be presented at an election unless the
resolution proposing the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of the legislative body of
the local government.

Accordingly, by August 9, 2012, the Council must approve Resolution No. 5385,
requesting consolidation with the statewide election. On the same date that Council
approves Resolution 5385, it must also approve, by a vote of at least four members,
Resolution No. 5384 calling for the election, which includes both the question to be put
before voters as a part of the election ballot and the complete text of the measure to be
submitted to the voters. Resolution No. 5388 providing for rebuttal arguments must also
be approved on the same date as Resolution No. 5384.

Staff recommends that Council approve all five attached resolutions as a group prior to
August 9, 2012, because each resolution addresses the same election called for by the
approval of Resolution No. 5384. This will also provide staff adequate time to arrange
for the election and to provide the citizens of Carpinteria ample notice regarding the
procedure for candidate statements, written arguments and rebuttals.

V. Attachments:

Resolution Nos. 5384, 5385, 5386, 5387 and 5388.

3

RESOLUTION NO. 5384

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA,
CALIFORNIA, CALLING FOR THE HOLDING OF A GENERAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012, FOR THE
ELECTION OF CERTAIN OFFICERS RELATING TO GENERAL LAW CITIES
AND FOR THE SUBMISSION TO THE VOTERS A QUESTION RELATING TO
INCREASING THE RATE OF THE CITY’S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
(“HOTEL BED TAX”)

WHEREAS, under the provisions of the laws relating to general law cities in the
State of California a General Municipal Election shall be held on November 6,
2012, for the election of Municipal Officers; and

WHEREAS, the City Council also desires to submit to the voters at the election a
question relating to increasing the rate of the City’s hotel bed tax;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA,
CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of
California relating to General Law Cities, there is called and ordered to be held in
the City of Carpinteria, California, on Tuesday, November 6, 2012, a General
Municipal Election for the purpose of electing two Members of the City Council
for the full term of four years.

SECTION 2. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of
California relating to General Law Cities, there is called and ordered to be held in
the City of Carpinteria, California, on Tuesday, November 6, 2012, a General
Municipal Election for the purpose of submitting to the City electors the question
of the adoption of Ordinance No. 656 amending the Carpinteria Municipal Code
to increase the hotel bed tax from ten percent (10%) to twelve percent (12%).

SECTION 3. That the City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does order
submitted to the voters at the General Municipal Election to be held November 6,
2012, the following question:

Resolution No 5384
Page 2

Citv Services Support Measure  To help maintain essential City services such as street/pothole repair, park maintenance, law enforcement, youth and senior programs, and other City services, shall the City of Carpinteria adopt an	YES	NO
ordinance to raise the City's hotel bed tax (Transient Occupancy Tax) from ten to twelve percent, paid only by hotel guests on their room rates, with annual independent audits, local oversight, and no money going to Sacramento?		

SECTION 4. That the proposed complete text of the measure submitted to the
voters is attached as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by reference. The
complete text of the measure will not be printed in the voter pamphlet, but will be
made available to the public and to any voter upon request, pursuant to the
requirements of the Elections Code.

SECTION 5. That in the event a majority of City electors voting on the ballot
measure set forth above vote in favor thereof, Ordinance No. 656 shall be
automatically adopted and shall amend the Carpinteria Municipal Code to read
as set forth in Exhibit “A,” effective ten (10) days following the certification of the
election results with no further action by the Council.

SECTION 6. That Ordinance No. 656 imposes a general tax as defined in
Subsection (a) of Section 1 of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, the
proceeds of which shall be deposited in the City’s general fund to be used for any
lawful general purposes of the City. The tax shall be collected in the manner
provided by Chapter 3.20 of the Carpinteria Municipal Code, incorporated herein
by reference.

SECTION 7. That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and
content as required by law.

SECTION 8. That the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to procure
and furnish any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all supplies,
equipment and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to properly and
lawfully conduct the election.

035444\0489\616872.!

SECTION 9. That the polls for the election shall be open at 7:00 o’clock a.m. on
the day of the election and shall remain open continuously from that time until
8:00 o’clock p.m. of the same day when the polls shall be closed, pursuant to
Elections Code § 10242, except as provided in § 14401 of the Elections Code of
the State of California.

SECTION 10. That in all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election
shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 11. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given
and the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or
additional notice of the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 12. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of
this Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

SECTION 13. The City Council authorizes the City Clerk to administer said
election and all reasonable and actual election expenses shall be paid by the City
upon presentation of a properly submitted bill.

SECTION 14. The City Council finds, pursuant to Title 14 of the California Code
of Regulations Section 15378(b)(4) and (5), that this Resolution is exempt from
the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act because it is not
considered a “project” in that it involves fiscal activities which do not involve a
commitment to any specific project and in that it is an organizational or
administrative activity of government that will not result in direct or indirect
physical changes to the environment. If the proposed ordinance were to be
found a “project,” it would be exempt from CEQA review pursuant to Public
Resources Code Section 21080(b)(8) because it establishes a rate for the
purpose of meeting the City’s operating expenses.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED on June 11, 2012, by the
following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBER.

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBER:

035444\0489\616872.1

ATTEST:	Mayor

City Clerk	

I	hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was duly and regularly introduced
and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Carpinteria
held on June 11, 2012.

APPROVED AS TO FORM:	City Clerk, City of Carpinteria
City Attorney	

035444\0489\616872.1

Exhibit "A"

ORDINANCE NO. 656

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA,
CALIFORNIA, AMENDING SECTION 3.20.030 OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA
MUNICIPAL CODE TO INCREASE THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX (“HOTEL
BED TAX”) ON RENT CHARGED TO HOTEL GUESTS FROM TEN PERCENT (10%)

TO TWELVE PERCENT (12%)

WHEREAS, the City Council, after receiving Staff Reports and presentations
(including recommendations from its Finance and Budget Committee), on the City’s
financial condition and related matters at its regular public meetings of February 23,
2009, June 8, 2009, June 14, 2010, and January 24, 2011, developed and implemented
a series of Financial Recovery Strategies aimed at improving City revenues and
reducing expenses, and one of the Strategies is to consider placing a question before
voters concerning a tax increase; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has enacted many ongoing revenue improvement
and cost reduction measures as a part of its Financial Recovery Strategy such as
establishing incentives for new development and business, promoting local business
and tourism, updating fees and charges for services, reducing expenses such as
employee compensation, law enforcement and other contract costs, and reducing
utilities costs through efficiency improvements; and

WHEREAS, at its regular meeting of September 12, 2011, the City Council
received a report on Revenue Measure Options, which concluded among other things
that the number and frequency of visitors to Carpinteria impacts the cost to the City for
providing local government services and, after deliberating on several revenue measure
options, the City Council elected to explore with the community the potential for a
Transient Occupancy Tax, i.e., hotel bed tax, rate increase; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has also considered information provided by staff at
regular meetings that calculates that an increase in the hotel bed tax rate from 10% to
12% would generate approximately $250,000 in additional annual revenue; and

WHEREAS, additional revenue from a hotel bed tax rate increase would help to
offset expenses associated with important local government services including but not
limited to street and pothole repair, law enforcement protection, and parks and
recreation services, and would also support the City’s ability to promote local tourism
and provide financial assistance to a variety of local service providers including the
Carpinteria branch library, Boys & Girls Club, Girls Inc., and others; and

WHEREAS, the City Council at its regular public meeting of May 14, 2012,
considered community survey results that indicate voter support for a hotel bed tax rate
increase.

NOW, THEREFORE, the People of the City of Carpinteria do hereby ordain as
follows:

Ordinance No. 656
Page 2

SECTION 1.	INCORPORATION OF RECITALS

The People of the City of Carpinteria find and determine that the above recitals
are incorporated herein and are each relied upon independently by the People for its
adoption of this Ordinance.

SECTION 2.	AMENDMENT

Section 3.20.030 of Chapter 3.20 of Title 3 of the Carpinteria Municipal Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:

“For privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and

shall pay a tax in the amount of twelve percent of the rent charged by the

operator. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city

which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or the city.”

SECTION 3.	GENERAL TAX

The Transient Occupancy Tax assessed by this Ordinance is a general
tax as defined in Subsection (a) of Section 1 of Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution, the proceeds of which shall be deposited in the City’s general fund
to be used for any lawful general purposes of the City.

SECTION 4.	ADJUSTMENTS	TO TAX RATE

Notwithstanding Section 9217 of the Elections Code, without a vote of the people
the City Council may do any and all of the following: (i) repeal this Ordinance; (ii) reduce
the rate of the Transient Occupancy Tax below twelve percent (12%); or (iii) increase
the rate of the Transient Occupancy Tax back to twelve percent (12%) if it has been
previously reduced below such rate. In no event shall the City Council increase the rate
of the Transient Occupancy Tax in excess of twelve percent (12%) without approval by
a majority of the voters voting in an election for the increase.

SECTION 5.	SEVERABILITY

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance
is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and
effect. The People of the City of Carpinteria hereby declare that they would have
adopted each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Ordinance, irrespective	of the fact that	any one or more	sections,	subsections,

sentences, clauses,	phrases, or portions	of this Ordinance	be	declared	invalid	or

unenforceable.

Ordinance No. 656
Page 3

SECTION 6.	APPROVAL	BY	ELECTION;	EFFECTIVE	DATE

This Ordinance amending Section 3.20.030 of Chapter 3.20 of Title 3 of the
Carpinteria Municipal Code shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after the date
on which the City Council has approved the canvass of votes and declared that the
voters of the City of Carpinteria have approved said Ordinance by a vote of no less than
a majority of the votes cast by the electors voting on the tax measure set forth in this
Ordinance at the general municipal election to be held Tuesday, November 6, 2012.
The effective date for purposes of levying the increased tax, should the voters approve
this Ordinance, shall be January 1, 2013.

SECTION 7.	PROPOSAL OF ORDINANCE

This Ordinance was proposed by the City Council of the City of Carpinteria
through the adoption of Resolution No. 5384 by the affirmative votes of not less than
four of its Members as required by Government Code Section 53724(b).

SECTION 8.	ATTESTATION BY MAYOR

The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance by
signing where indicated below.

SECTION 9.	PUBLICATION

The City Clerk shall publish this Ordinance as required by law.

Ill

I hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance
was PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED

this day of , 2012, by the People of
the City of Carpinteria voting on the sixth day
of November, 2012 by the following electoral

results:

VOTES IN FAVOR:
VOTES AGAINST:

Mayor of the City of Carpinteria

Ordinance No. 656
Page 4

ATTEST:

City Clerk, City of Carpinteria
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney, City of Carpinteria

RESOLUTION NO. 5385

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA,
CALIFORNIA, REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA TO CONSOLIDATE A GENERAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 6, 2012, WITH THE
STATEWIDE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON THAT
DATE PURSUANT TO SECTION 10403 OF THE ELECTIONS CODE

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Carpinteria called a General Municipal
Election to be held on November 6, 2012, for the purpose of the election of two
Members of the City Council; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Carpinteria is submitting to the voters
the question relating to increasing the rate of the City’s hotel bed tax; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the General Municipal Election be consolidated
with the Statewide General Election to be held on the same date and that within
the City the precincts, polling places and election officers of the two elections be
the same, and that the county election department of the County of Santa
Barbara canvass the returns of the General Municipal Election and that the
election be held in all respects as if there were only one election;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA
DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the Elections
Code, the Board of Supervisors	of	the	County of Santa	Barbara	is hereby

requested to consent and agree	to	the	consolidation of a	General	Municipal

Election with the Statewide General Election on Tuesday, November 6, 2012, for
the purpose of the election of two Members of the City Council.

SECTION 2. That pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the Elections
Code, the Board of Supervisors	of	the	County of Santa	Barbara	is hereby

requested to consent and agree	to	the	consolidation of a	General	Municipal

Election with the Statewide General Election on Tuesday, November 6, 2012,
also for the purpose of submitting to the City electors the question of the adoption
of Ordinance No. 656 amending the Carpinteria Municipal Code to increase the
hotel bed tax rate from ten percent (10%) to twelve percent (12%).

SECTION 3. That a measure is to appear on the ballot as follows:

035444\0489\616944.1

Resolution No. 5385
Page 2

Citv Services SuddoiI Measure  To help maintain essential City services such as street/pothole repair, park maintenance, law enforcement, youth and senior programs, and other City services, shall the City of Carpinteria adopt an	YES	NO
ordinance to raise the City's hotel bed tax (Transient Occupancy Tax) from ten to twelve percent, paid only by hotel guests on their room rates, with annual independent audits, local oversight, and no money going to Sacramento?		

SECTION 4. That the county election department is authorized to canvass the
returns of the General Municipal Election. The election shall be held in all
respects as if there were only one election, and only one form of ballot shall be
used.

SECTION 5. That the Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to
the county election department to take any and all steps necessary for the
holding of the consolidated election.

SECTION 6. That the City of Carpinteria recognizes that additional costs will be
incurred by the County by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse
the County for those costs.

SECTION 7. That the City Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the county election department of
the County of Santa Barbara.

SECTION 8. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED on June 11,2012, by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBER:

035444\0489\616944.1

ATTEST:	Mayor, City of Carpinteria
City Clerk, City of Carpinteria	

I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was duly and regularly introduced
and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Carpinteria
held on June 11,2012..

APPROVED AS TO FORM:	City Clerk, City of Carpinteria
City Attorney	

035444\0489\616944.1

RESOLUTION NO. 5386

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA,
CALIFORNIA, ADOPTING REGULATIONS FOR CANDIDATES FOR
ELECTIVE OFFICE PERTAINING TO CANDIDATES STATEMENTS
SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS AT AN ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012

WHEREAS, § 13307 of the Elections Code of the State of California provides
that the governing body of any local agency adopt regulations pertaining to
materials prepared by any candidate for a municipal election, including costs of
the candidates statement.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND
ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS. That pursuant to §13307 of the
Elections Code of the State of California, each candidate for elective office to be
voted for at an election to be held in the City of Carpinteria (on November 6,
2012) may prepare a candidate’s statement on an appropriate form provided by
the City Clerk. The statement may include the name, age and occupation of the
candidate and a brief description of no more that 200 words of the candidate’s
education and qualifications expressed by the candidate himself or herself. The
statement shall not include party affiliation of the candidate, nor membership or
activity in partisan political organizations. The statement shall be filed (in
typewritten form) in the office of the City Clerk at the time the candidate’s
nomination papers are filed. The statement may be withdrawn, but not changed,
during the period for filing nomination papers and until 5:00 p.m. of the next
working day after the close of the nomination period.

SECTION 2. FOREIGN LANGUAGE POLICY.

A.	Pursuant to the Federal Voting Rights Act, candidate’s statements will be
translated into all languages required by the County of Santa Barbara. The
County is required to translate candidate’s statements into the following
language: Spanish.

B.	The County will print and mail separate sample ballots and candidates
statements in Spanish to only those voters who are on the county voter file as
having requested a sample ballot in a particular language. The County will make
the sample ballots and candidates statements in the required languages
available at all polling places, on the County’s website, and in the Election
Official’s office.

Resolution No. 5386
Page 2

SECTION 3. PAYMENT.

A.	Translations

The candidate shall not be required to pay for the cost of translating the
candidate’s statement into any foreign language that is a required foreign
language as specified in (A) and/or (B) of Section 2 above pursuant to Federal
and/or State law.

B.	Printing

1.	The candidate shall be required to pay for the cost of printing the
candidate’s statement in English in the main voter pamphlet.

2.	The candidate shall be required to pay for the cost of printing the
candidates statement in a foreign language required in (A) of Section 2 above, in
the main voter pamphlet.

The City Clerk shall estimate the total cost of printing, handling, translating, and
mailing the candidate’s statements filed pursuant to this section, including costs
incurred as a result of complying with the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (as
amended), and require each candidate filing a statement to pay in advance to the
local agency his or her estimated pro rata share as a condition of having his or
her statement included in the voter’s pamphlet. In the event the estimated
payment is required, the estimate is just an approximation of the actual cost that
varies from one election to another election and may be significantly more or less
than the estimate, depending on the actual number of candidates filing
statements. Accordingly, the clerk is not bound by the estimate and may, on a
pro rata basis, bill the candidate for additional actual expense or refund any
excess paid depending on the final actual cost. In the event of overpayment, the
clerk shall prorate the excess amount among the candidates and refund the
excess amount paid within 30 days of the election.

SECTION 4. MISCELLANEOUS.

A.	All translations shall be provided by professionally-certified translators.

B.	The City Clerk shall allow (bold type) (underlining) (capitalization)
(indentations) (bullets) (leading hyphens) to the same extent and manner as
allowed in previous City elections.

C.	The City Clerk shall comply with all recommendations and standards set
forth by the California Secretary of State regarding occupational designations
and other matters relating to elections.

SECTION 5. ADDITIONAL MATERIALS. That no candidate will be permitted to
include additional materials in the sample ballot package.

SECTION 6. That the City Clerk shall provide each candidate or the candidate’s
representative a copy of this Resolution at the time nominating petitions are
issued.

SECTION 7. That all previous resolutions establishing council policy on payment
for candidates statements are repealed.

SECTION 8. That this resolution shall apply only to the election to be held on
November 6, 2012 and shall then be repealed.

SECTION 9. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED on June 11, 2012, by the
following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBER:

Mayor

ATTEST:

City Clerk

I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was duly and regularly introduced
and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Carpinteria
held on June 11, 2012.

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Clerk

City Attorney

RESOLUTION NO. 5387

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA,
CALIFORNIA, SETTING PRIORITIES FOR FILING WRITTEN ARGUMENTS
REGARDING A CITY MEASURE SUMBMITTED AT THE NOVEMBER 6, 2012
GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION RELATING TO INCREASING THE RATE
OF THE CITY’S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX (“HOTEL BED TAX”), AND
DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS.

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election is to be held in the City of Carpinteria,
California, on November 6, 2012, at which there will be submitted to the voters
the following measure:

Citv Services SuDDort Measure		
To help maintain essential City services such as street/pothole repair, park maintenance, law enforcement, youth and senior programs, and other City services, shall the City of Carpinteria adopt an ordinance to raise the City's hotel bed tax (Transient Occupancy Tax) from ten to twelve percent, paid only by hotel guests on their room rates, with annual independent audits, local oversight, and no money going to Sacramento?	YES	NO

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND
ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That the City Council authorizes the following member(s) of its body
to file a written argument not exceeding 300 words regarding the city measure as
specified above, accompanied by the printed name(s) and signature(s) of the
author(s) submitting it, in accordance with Article 4, Chapter 3, Division 9 of the
Elections Code of the State of California. The arguments may be changed or
withdrawn until and including the date fixed by the City Clerk after which no
arguments for or against the city measure may be submitted to the City Clerk.

035444\0489\616888.1

Councilmember(s) In Favor	Councilmember(s) Against
	
	
	,
	
	

The arguments shall be filed with the City Clerk, signed with the printed names(s)
and signature(s) of the author(s) submitting it or, if submitted on behalf of an
organization, with the name of the organization and the printed name and
signature of at least one of its principal officers who is the author of the
argument. The arguments shall be accompanied by the Form of Statement To Be
Filed by Author(s) Argument pursuant to Section 9600 of the Elections Code.
The arguments shall be filed no later than July 25, 2012, by 5:00 p.m.

SECTION 2. That the City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the
measure not exceeding 500 words showing the effect of the measure on the
existing law and the operation of the measure. Pursuant to Elections Code
Section 9280, the impartial analysis shall be printed preceding the arguments for
and against the measure and the following statement shall be printed following
the impartial analysis: "The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
656. If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the elections official's office
at (805) 658-5405, extension 403 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you."
The impartial analysis shall be filed no later than July 25, 2012, by 5:00 p.m., the
deadline set by the City Clerk for the filing of primary arguments.

SECTION 3. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED on June 11, 2012, by the
following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBER:

Mayor

035444\0489\616888.1

Resolution No. 5387
Page 3

ATTEST:

City Clerk

I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was duly and regularly introduced
and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Carpinteria
held on June 11,2012.

City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney

035444\0489\616888.1

RESOLUTION NO. 5388

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA,
CALIFORNIA, PROVIDING FOR THE FILING OF REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS
FOR CITY MEASURES SUBMITTED AT MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.

WHEREAS, Section 9285 of the Elections Code of the State of California
authorizes the City Council by majority vote, to adopt provisions to provide for the
filing of rebuttal arguments for City measures submitted at municipal elections;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND
ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to Section 9285 of the Elections Code of the State of
California, when the elections official has selected the arguments for and against
the measure which will be printed and distributed to the voters, the elections
official shall send a copy of an argument in favor of the measure to the authors of
any arguments against the measure and a copy of an argument against the
measure to the authors of any argument in favor of the measure immediately
upon receiving the arguments.

The author or majority of the authors of an argument relating to a
city measure may prepare and submit a rebuttal argument not exceeding 250
words or may authorize in writing any other person or persons to prepare,
submit, or sign the rebuttal argument.

A rebuttal argument may not be signed by more than five authors.
The rebuttal arguments shall be filed with the City Clerk, signed, with the printed
name(s) and signature(s) of the author(s) submitting it, or if submitted on behalf
of an organization, the name of the organization, and the printed names and
signature of at least one of its principal officers, not more than 10 days after the
final date for filing direct arguments. The rebuttal arguments shall be
accompanied by the Form of Statement To Be filed by Authors(s) of the
Argument pursuant to Section 9600 of the Elections Code.

Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as
directed arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct
argument which it seeks to rebut.

SECTION 2. That all previous resolutions providing for the filing of rebuttal
arguments for city measures are repealed.

SECTION 3. That the provisions of Section 1 shall apply only to the election to
be held on November 6, 2012 and shall then be repealed.

SECTION 4. That the City clerk shall certify the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED on June 11, 2012, by the
following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBER:

ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBER:

Mayor

ATTEST:

City Clerk

I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was duly and regularly introduced
and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Carpinteria
held on June 11,2012.

City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney