Measure N: Business License Fee

Shall an ordinance be adopted to impose a business license fee of one (1) cent per ounce of
sugar-sweetened beverage served, provided, or traded by businesses in the City?

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

Richmond, like most California cities, imposes a license fee (tax) on those who do business in
the city. For most businesses, the tax is $234.10 a year plus $46.80 per employee for the first 25
employees and $40.10 per every additional employee.

Measure N would impose an additional business license tax measured by the amount of sugar-
sweetened drinks served, provided or traded by businesses in the city. The tax would be one cent
per ounce of sugar- sweetened drink.

A business "serves, provides or trades" a sugar-sweetened drink when it:

Serves a sugar-sweetened drink to a consumer, including consumer self-service;

Dispenses or allows a consumer to dispense a sugar-sweetened drink from a vending machine; or

Permits a consumer to remove sugar-sweetened drinks from the business premises.

A "consumer" is any person, including a customer, employee or guest, who purchases, receives
or takes a sugar-sweetened drink at a place within the city to drink it. Consumers are not required
to pay the tax. Instead, the tax is paid by the business. Businesses subject to the proposed tax
would include restaurants, fast food outlets, supermarkets, convenience stores, hotels, vending
machine operators.

A "sugar-sweetened beverage" is any non-alcoholic drink, whether or not carbonated, intended
for human consumption, which contains any added sweetener other than a diet sweetener.
Non-diet sodas, energy drinks, fruit drinks containing high fructose corn syrup, and sweet teas
are all examples of sugar-sweetened drinks.

Zero calorie sodas, black coffee, unsweetened tea or iced tea, unsweetened bottled water and
fruit juices (including juices reconstituted from concentrate or powders) containing no added
sweeteners (other than diet sweeteners) are not sugar-sweetened beverages. If a consumer, rather
than a business, adds sweetener to a drink (as by adding sugar to coffee or tea), that does not
make the drink a sugar- sweetened beverage for purposes of the tax.

The following businesses are exempt from the tax:

Any business that the City may not tax under federal or state law;

A business of a person under the age of 18 with fewer than $500 in annual gross receipts (such as
a child operating a lemonade stand); and

A business consisting of a natural person who acquires sugar-sweetened beverages solely (i) for
consumption at his or her residence, (ii) for his or her own consumption, or (iii) for the
consumption of members of his or her immediate family.

Tax proceeds will be placed in the City's general fund and can used for any lawful city purpose.
While the proposal allows the City Council to amend the tax ordinance, a vote of the people is
required to increase or decrease the tax rate or increase or significantly decrease the range of
businesses or drinks to which it applies.

A simple majority of those who vote on the question will decide it. If approved, the tax will take
effect on January 1, 2013.

A copy of the full text of this ballot measure is available, free of charge, by telephoning the City
Clerk's Office at (510) 620-6513 or at the City of Richmond's webpage: http://
www.ci.richmond.ca.us.

Bruce Goodmiller City Attorney City of Richmond
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

A "yes" vote on Measure N enacts an additional Business License Tax on all establishments
selling sugary beverages. It is estimated by the City's Finance Department that this measure will
raise an additional $3 million in Business License Tax revenue per year for the City. It is not
known how it will affect sales tax revenues. A "no" vote will result in the tax not being adopted.
James Goins Finance Director City of Richmond

FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF SODA TAX

A "yes" vote on Measure N enacts an additional Business License Tax on all establishments selling
sugary beverages. It is estimated by the City's Finance Department that this measure will raise an
additional $3 million in Business License Tax revenue per year for the City. It is not known how it will
affect sales tax revenues. A "no" vote will result in the tax not being adopted.

James Goins
Finance Director
City of Richmond

PRIMARY ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Vote "Yes" on Measure N. Less soda + more sports = healthier kids.

The national obesity crisis has hit home. Over half of Richmond children are overweight or obese,
and at serious risk of diabetes and heart disease. Sugary drinks are the main culprit, leading to
weight gain and chronic illness. Each year, the average Richmond kid consumes 40 pounds of sugar

from sugary drinks.

By supporting Measure N, the Richmond community can take control of our children's well-being.
Powerful beverage corporations target low-income families with misleading advertising to entice
them to buy sugary drinks. Big Soda profits, our kids suffer from diabetes, and parents struggle to
pay medical bills.

Measure N will place a 1 penny per ounce tax on sugary drinks. These are beverages, like soda and
sports drinks, that contain added caloric sweetener. The tax would not apply to 100% juice, drinks
with non-caloric sweeteners, or unsweetened milk or baby formula.

The American Medical Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Heart
Association, and the American Association of Retired Persons all support a tax on sugary drinks
because:

•	Studies prove that when cigarettes are taxed, fewer kids smoke. A sugary drinks tax could
reduce consumption by 10-15%. This means more of our kids will live longer, healthier lives.

•	Taxing sugary drinks encourages families to buy healthier, affordable alternatives - like
water and milk - and children learn how to make healthy choices.

•	Retailers will be motivated to offer healthier products on their shelves.

•	Money raised from the sugary drinks tax will help Richmond fight childhood obesity and
diabetes. Measure O will advise City officials to spend Measure N funds on sports fields,
recreation, and health education.

Richmond can put children's health first, and reject Big Soda's thirst for profits.

Vote "Yes" on Measure N.

Dr. Jeff Ritterman, M.D.

Cardiologist, Councilmember, City of Richmond

Doria Robinson

Executive Director, Urban Tilth

Tom Butt,

Councilmember, City of Richmond

Charles Tillman Ramsey,

President, WCCUSD Board

Rev. Dr. Alvin C. Bernstine

Bethlehem Missionary Baptist Church, Pastor

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Proponents of Measure N want you to believe that money from this tax will be dedicated to
fighting childhood obesity - nothing could be further from the truth. The City is simply
looking for new revenue in OUR grocery carts.

Richmond's own city attorney wrote in the impartial analysis that the “tax proceeds will be
placed in the City’s general fund and can be used for any lawful city purpose.”

VOTE “NO” on “N” because:

•	It will cost you at Richmond grocery stores—sports drinks, ice teas, melon and aloe
juice based drinks, bubble teas, horchata, agua fresca and even certain infant formulas
will all be subject to this tax. Grocery prices are already on the rise, we don’t need to
pay any more.

•	It will even cost you at convenience stores, movie theaters and restaurants because
hundreds of beverages, including fountain sodas, will be taxed.

•	It will cost ALL OF US. Measure N will end up costing $12.8 Million in new taxes and
revenue losses.*

•	It will COST local businesses over $9 Million in lost sales. Residents will be forced to
take their business to stores outside of Richmond.*

•	This tax is regressive - it unfairly targets those that can least afford it.

On November 6, Vote NO on Measure N. Richmond needs to focus on improving schools;
protecting our streets; and creating jobs instead of trying to balance its budget on the backs of its
citizens.

Go to www.NoRichmondBeverageTax.com.

[*Source: Berkley Research Group. William G. Hamm. PhD, March 2012]

Name  Title	Irma L. Anderson  Former Mayor of Richmond, CA	Name  Title	Rafael Madrigal  President 23rd Street Merchants Association
Name  Title	Brazell H. Carter, M.D. Internal Medicine Physician	Name  Title	Judith Morgan  President/CEO Richmond Chamber of Commerce
Name  Title	Don Gosney Labor Union Leader		

PRIMARY ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE

Measure_____: A Beverage Tax We Just Can’t Afford

Measure_____hurts Richmond’s businesses and taxpayers. The money raised by Measure_will

just go into the General Fund where it will be used any way the politicians want. This costly
measure will hit the people of Richmond hard—to the tune of $12.8 million in new taxes and lost
revenue (Berkeley Research Group).

THE FACTS:

•	ALL money collected by Measure___will go into the City’s General Fund where it can

be used by politicians for any purpose, including their own pet programs.

•	Measure____does NOT RAISE ONE PENNY SPECIFICALLY TO FIGHT

OBESITY.

•	Measure____will affect HUNDREDS OF BEVERAGES like sodas, juice drinks, sports

drinks, teas and more.

•	Measure____WILL COST Richmond stores, restaurants, and other businesses that sell

sugar-sweetened drinks countless dollars.

•	Measure____is a REGRESSIVE TAX that hits lower income Richmond residents, who

can least afford it, the hardest.

A new tax that takes additional millions of hard earned dollars from individuals and businesses
without restrictions on how the money is used is not the answer to obesity.

Don’t be misled: Vote “NO” on Measure

For more information, visit: www.NoRichmondBeverageTax.com.

Name  Title	Irma L. Anderson  Former Mayor of Richmond, CA	Name  Title	Rafael Madrigal  President 23rd Street Merchants Association
Name  Title	Brazell H. Carter, M.D. Internal Medicine Physician	Name  Title	Judith Morgan  President/CEO Richmond Chamber of Commerce
Name  Title	Don Gosney Labor Union Leader		

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

TRUTH: Measure N will save lives and money in Richmond. Obesity-related illnesses hurt children, taxpayers,
businesses, and our local economy.

TRUTH: Opposition to Measure N is funded by the "Big Soda" industry. Each year, Big Soda targets U.S. kids with
$500 million in advertising. Kids guzzle soda, obesity skyrockets, and low-income communities are hit hard by the
staggering costs of illness. And Big Soda laughs all the way to the bank.

In its glossy mailers attacking Measure N, Big Soda never reveals the true costs of sugary drinks:

•	Hardships faced by Richmond parents struggling to care for diabetic children

•	Richmond lives tragically lost to obesity-related diseases - more each year than from homicides

•	Lost revenue and productivity caused by diabetes, disability, and premature death

Big Soda cannot dispute the overwhelming evidence that sugary drinks hurt children. Instead, Big Soda recycles
Big Tobacco's false claims about cigarette taxes: "It's unfair to poor people!" "Your city leaders cannot be trusted
to spend the funds as intended!"

TRUTH: Anyone can avoid the penny-per-ounce tax on sugary drinks simply by choosing healthier options.
Remember water? Milk? 100% fruit juice? Our grandparents do.

TRUTH: The Richmond City Council majority has publicly pledged to spend every cent raised from Measure N for

anti-obesity programs in Richmond. Measure N is a local, grassroots initiative - our community will hold our
locally-elected leaders accountable.

TRUTH: Big Soda lobbyists care only about profits - not about Richmond families and merchants.

Tell Big Soda: "Our kids' health is not for sale!"

Vote "YES" on Measure N.

www.fit-for-life.org

Dexter Vizinau

Cybertran International, President and CEO

Gelberg Rodriguez

Richmond Business Owner, and
Richmond United Soccer Club, President

Antonio Medrano

West Contra Costa Unified School District Boardmember

Whitney Dotson, M.P.H.

East Bay Regional Parks District, Director

Zee Handoush

Second Generation Richmond Merchant and
Richmond Business Owner

CITY OF RICHMOND

SUGAR-SWEETENED BEVERAGE POLICY

1. PURPOSE

This Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Tax Policy is intended to ensure application of the City’s
Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Tax in conformity with the United States Constitution and related
provisions of applicable federal, state, and local law. It is adopted by the Tax Collector pursuant
to Section 7.08.070 of the Richmond Municipal Code as proposed to be adopted by Measure N
on the November 6, 2012 ballot. It is intended to facilitate enforcement of the tax.

2. DEFINITIONS

The following definitions apply to the Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Policy in addition to the
definitions appearing in Chapters 1.04 and 7.04 of the Richmond Municipal Code. They are
identical to those which appear in Section 7.08.010 of the Richmond Municipal Code as
proposed to be adopted by Measure N on the November 6, 2012 ballot.

(a)	“Caloric sweetener” means any caloric substance suitable for human consumption that
humans perceive as sweet and includes, without limitation, sucrose, fructose, glucose,
other sugars, and fruit juice concentrates. “Caloric sweetener” excludes non-caloric
sweeteners. For purposes of this definition, “caloric” means a substance which adds
calories to the diet of a person who consumes that substance.

(b)	“Consumer” means any person, including but not limited to a customer, employee or
guest who purchases, receives or takes a sugar-sweetened beverage at a place within the
city to consume it.

(c)	“Non-caloric sweetener” means any non-caloric substance suitable for human
consumption that humans perceive as sweet and includes, without limitation, aspartame,
saccharin, stevia, and sucralose. “Non-caloric sweetener” excludes caloric sweeteners.

For purposes of this definition, “non-caloric” means a substance which does not add
calories to the diet of a person who consumes that substance.

(d)	“Sugar-sweetened beverage” means any nonalcoholic beverage, whether or not
carbonated, intended for human consumption which contains any added caloric sweetener
but excludes a beverage which would not be a sugar-sweetened beverage but for the fact
that a consumer adds a caloric sweetener to it, whether or not that caloric sweetener is
provided by the taxpayer. As used in this definition, “nonalcoholic beverage” means any
beverage that contains less than one-half of one percent alcohol per volume.

The term “Sugar-Sweetened Beverage” does not include:

Page 1 of 2

(A)	Beverages consisting of 100 percent natural fruit or vegetable juice with no added
Caloric Sweetener. For purposes of this paragraph, “natural fruit juice” and “natural vegetable
juice” mean the original liquid resulting from the pressing of fruits or vegetables, or the liquid
resulting from the dilution with water of dehydrated natural fruit juice or dehydrated natural
vegetable juice;

(B)	Dietary aids, which means liquid products manufactured for use as:

(1)	An oral nutritional therapy for persons who cannot absorb or metabolize
dietary nutrients from food or beverages;

(2)	A source of necessary nutrition used due to a medical condition; or

(3)	An oral electrolyte solution for infants and children formulated to prevent
dehydration due to illness; and

(4)	Infant formula.

3.	EFFECTIVENESS

This policy shall take effect at the same time as Measure N and only if Measure N is
adopted by the voters of the City.

Adopted this day of October 2012.

James Grins ^
Tax Gmlector

Attest:

J	—J

Diane Holmes
City Clerk

Approved as to form:

Page 2 of 2

RESOLUTION NO. 65-12

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RICHMOND,
CALIFORNIA SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS AT THE NOVEMBER 6, 2012
GENERAL ELECTION A BALLOT MEASURE IMPOSING A GENERAL
BUSINESS LICENSE FEE MEASURED BY THE SERVING, PROVIDING, OR
TRADING OF SUGAR-SWEETENED BEVERAGES IN THE CITY

WHEREAS, the City of Richmond imposes business license fees upon businesses in the
City; and

WHEREAS, business license fees are imposed to raise revenue and not for regulation
and constitute a general tax; and

WHEREAS, the ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by
reference (the “Ordinance”) would impose an additional business license fee measured by the
serving, providing, or trading of sugar-sweetened beverages; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Section 9222 authorizes the City Council to submit an
ordinance directly to the voters; and

WHEREAS, by its Resolution No.65-12, the City Council has called a general
municipal election for November 6, 2012 (the “Election”) and requested the assistance of the
county elections office in the conduct of the Election; and

WHEREAS, the Election is a regularly scheduled general election for members of the
City Council; and

WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to submit the Ordinance to the voters at the
Election;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF RICHMOND, CALIFORNIA, AS FOLLOWS:

1.	The City Council proposes to impose the general tax set forth in the Ordinance. The
proposed type of tax, the rate of the tax, and the method of collection of the tax are as set
forth in the Ordinance.

2.	Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9222, the City Council hereby submits the Ordinance
to the voters at the Election and orders the following question to be submitted to the
voters at the Election:

“Shall an ordinance be adopted to impose a business license fee of one (1) cent per ounce
of sugar-sweetened beverage served, provided, or traded by businesses in the City?”

This question requires the approval of a majority of those casting votes.

3.	In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the Election shall be held and conducted
as provided by law applicable to a general tax measure.

4.	That notice of the time and place of holding the Election is hereby given and the City
Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to provide such other notice as may be
required by law.

5.	That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution and enter
it into the book of original Resolutions of the City.

6.	The City Council directs the City Clerk to file a certified copy of this Resolution with the
Registrar of Voters of Contra Costa County.

BY ORDER OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RICHMOND

65-12

1

I certify that the foregoing resolution was passed and adopted by the Council of the City
of Richmond at a regular meeting thereof held on May 15, 2012, by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Beckles,	Butt,	Ritterman, Vice Mayor Rogers, and

Mayor McLaughlin.

NOES:	Councilmembers Bates and	Booze.

ABSTENTIONS:	None.

ABSENT:	None.

DIANE HOLMES
CLERK OF THE CITY OF RICHMOND

(SEAL)

Approved:

GAYLE MCLAUGHLIN
Mayor

Approved as to form:

BRUCE GOODMILLER
City Attorney

State of California	}

County of Contra Costa	:	ss.

City of Richmond	}

I certify that the foregoing is a true copy of Resolution No. 65-12, finally passed and
adopted by the City Council of the City of Richmond at a regular meeting held on May 15, 2012.

65-12

2

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF RICHMOND IMPOSING A GENERAL
BUSINESS LICENSE FEE MEASURED BY THE SERVING, PROVIDING, OR
TRADING OF SUGAR-SWEETENED BEVERAGES

WHEREAS, sugar-sweetened beverages, such as caloric sodas, energy drinks, sports drinks and
caloric teas are significant contributors to obesity, overweight and tooth decay; and

WHEREAS, the Contra Costa Health Services estimates that 52% of children attending
Richmond Schools are overweight or obese, of whom 34% are obese; and

WHEREAS, the Contra Costa Health Services estimates that 58% of adult Richmond residents
are overweight or obese, of whom 24% suffer from obesity; and

WHEREAS, obesity and overweight significantly increase the risk of type 2 diabetes, coronary
heart disease, stroke, hypertension, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, gallbladder disease,
osteoarthritis (degeneration of cartilage and bone of joints), sleep apnea and other breathing
problems, some forms of cancer (breast, colorectal, endometrial, and kidney), complications of
pregnancy, and menstrual irregularities; and

WHEREAS, high rates of obesity, especially among school-age children threaten the health of
the City’s residents; and

WHEREAS, Contra Costa Health Services predicts that, without intervention, 42% of children
currently residing in Richmond will be obese as adults; and

WHEREAS, this public health emergency demands increased and improved community
facilities and services designed to encourage or enable exercise and good nutrition; and

WHEREAS, the City relies on general fund revenues to provide these community facilities and
services; and

WHEREAS, the People of the City of Richmond desire that the City provide more facilities and
services than are possible with existing City revenues and resources; and

WHEREAS, Article II, Section 1 of the Charter of the City of Richmond empowers the City to
levy and collect taxes and assessments, impose license fees for revenue or regulation, and
provide all means for raising revenue necessary for City services; and

WHEREAS, for general revenue purposes, and in recognition of the fact that the adverse health
impacts of sugar-sweetened beverages contribute to the need for City facilities and services, the
People of the City of Richmond desire to impose a business license fee upon businesses that
serve, provide, or trade in sugar-sweetened beverages.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF RICHMOND AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Code Amendment. Article VII of the Richmond Municipal Code is hereby amended
to add a new Chapter 7.08 to read as follows:

CHAPTER 7.08 SUGAR-SWEETENED BEVERAGES

Section 7.08.010 Definitions

In addition to the definitions appearing in chapters 1.04 and 7.04 of this code, the following
definitions shall apply to this chapter:

(a)	“Caloric sweetener” means any caloric substance suitable for human consumption that
humans perceive as sweet and includes, without limitation, sucrose, fructose, glucose,
other sugars, and fruit juice concentrates. “Caloric sweetener” excludes non-caloric
sweeteners. For purposes of this definition, “caloric” means a substance which adds
calories to the diet of a person who consumes that substance.

(b)	“Consumer” means any person, including but not limited to a customer, employee or
guest who purchases, receives or takes a sugar-sweetened beverage at a place within the
city to consume it.

(c)	“Non-caloric sweetener” means any non-caloric substance suitable for human
consumption that humans perceive as sweet and includes, without limitation, aspartame,
saccharin, stevia, and sucralose. “Non-caloric sweetener” excludes caloric sweeteners.

For purposes of this definition, “non-caloric” means a substance which does not add
calories to the diet of a person who consumes that substance.

(d)	“Sugar-sweetened beverage” means any nonalcoholic beverage, whether or not
carbonated, intended for human consumption which contains any added caloric sweetener
but excludes a beverage which would not be a sugar-sweetened beverage but for the fact
that a consumer adds a caloric sweetener to it, whether or not that caloric sweetener is
provided by the taxpayer. As used in this definition, “nonalcoholic beverage” means any
beverage that contains less than one-half of one percent alcohol per volume.

Section 7.08.020 Additional License Fee

In addition to any other license fees imposed by the city, every person engaging in or conducting
any business in the City shall pay a fee of one cent per ounce of sugar-sweetened beverage
served, provided or traded by the person in the course of doing business in the city.

Section 7.08.030 Measurement of Activity

For the purposes of this chapter, a person serves, provides or trades a sugar-sweetened beverage
when the person:

(a)	Serves a sugar-sweetened beverage to a consumer, including consumer self-service;

(b)	Dispenses or allows a consumer to dispense a sugar-sweetened beverage from a vending
machine or similar device; or,

(c)	Permits a consumer to remove sugar-sweetened beverage from the premises of the
business.

Section 7.08.040 Calculations of Volume of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages Served,
Provided or Traded

(a) A person subject to the fee imposed by section 7.08.020 may calculate the volume of
sugar-sweetened beverages consumed, provided or traded during a reporting period as the

amount of sugar-sweetened beverages (or syrup, mix or similar product used for the
creation of sugar-sweetened beverages) received by that person from any source in the
course of business in the city, less the amount returned by the person to wholesalers or
suppliers or otherwise removed from the city without being served, provided or traded.

(b) A person who sells a sugar-sweetened beverage prepared from a syrup, mix, powder or
similar base product shall report that use in terms of the volume of sugar-sweetened
beverage that can be prepared from the syrup, mix, or similar product.

Section 7.08.050 Exceptions

The fee imposed by Section 7.08.020 shall not apply to:

(a)	Any person who is not subject to taxation by the City under the laws of the United States
or the State of California.

(b)	Any person under the age of 18 with fewer than $500 in annual gross receipts.

(c)	Any natural person who acquires sugar-sweetened beverages solely (i) for consumption
at his or her residence, (ii) for his or her own consumption, or (iii) for the consumption of
members of his or her immediate family.

Section 7.08.060 Collection

(a)	The fee imposed by section 7.08.020 shall be due and payable when and as provided in
chapter 7.04 of this code for other business license taxes due from the taxpayer and shall
be calculated based upon the volume of sugar-sweetened beverages served, provided or
traded during a reporting period.

(b)	The city council may by ordinance require one or more businesses to calculate and pay
the fee on a more frequent basis to ensure the effective enforcement of this chapter. Such
an ordinance shall not constitute the increase of the tax.

Section 7.08.070 Enforcement

(a)	Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the fee imposed by section 7.08.020 shall
be administered as are fees imposed pursuant to chapter 7.04 and, without limitation,
taxes imposed under section 7.08.020 shall be subject to the same delinquency penalties,
appeals processes and other enforcement provisions set forth in chapter 7.04.

(b)	The tax administrator may issue regulations interpreting this chapter to facilitate its
enforcement.

Section 7.08.080 Use of Proceeds

The proceeds of the fee imposed by Section 7.08.020 shall be deposited in the City’s general

fund and shall be available for any lawful municipal purpose.

Section 7.08.090 Declaration of Purpose

This chapter is enacted solely to raise revenue for municipal purposes and is not intended for the

purpose of regulation. It shall apply to all persons engaged in business in the city. Fees imposed

by this chapter are general taxes for purposes of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution.

3

This chapter does not authorize the conduct of any business or activity in the City, but merely
provides for the taxation of such businesses or activities as occur.

Section 7.08.100 Not a Sales & Use Tax

The tax imposed by this Chapter is a tax upon the privilege of conducting business within the
City. It is not a sales, use or other excise tax on the sale, consumption or use of sugar-sweetened
beverages.

Section 2. Amendment of Ordinance. This Ordinance may be amended by the City Council
without a vote of the people except that voter approval shall be required for either of the
following: (i) as required by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, any amendment that
increases the amount or rate of tax beyond the levels authorized by this Ordinance, or (ii)
reduction of the tax rate below one-cent per ounce or significantly reducing the base of business
activity to which the tax applies.

Section 3. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is
for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this ordinance shall nonetheless
remain in full force and effect. The People of the City of Richmond hereby declare that they
would have adopted each section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of
this Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this
Ordinance are severable.

Section 4. Majority Approval; Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be effective on January 1,
2013 if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the question.

Section 5. California Environmental Quality Act Requirements. This Ordinance is exempt
from the California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq.,
including without limitation Public Resources Code section 21065, CEQA Guidelines section
15378(b)(4) and 15061(b)(3), as it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the
activity authorized herein may have a significant effect on the environment and pursuant to
Public Resources Code section 21080, subd. (b)(8) and CEQA Guidelines section 15273 as the
approval of government revenues to fund existing services.

Section 6. Execution. The Mayor and City Clerk are authorized to execute this Ordinance where
indicated below to give evidence of its adoption by the voters of the City.

I hereby certify that this Ordinance was adopted by a vote of the People of the City of Richmond
on November 6, 2012.

4

Gayle McLaughlin

Mayor

ATTEST:

Diane Holmes
City Clerk

5