MEASURE M	
MEASURE TO PROTECT ESSENTIAL CITY OF VACAVILLE SERVICES.  City Of Vacaville	
In order to protect essential City services from further reductions such as police programs to fight domestic violence, child/elder abuse, gang activity and neighborhood crime; fire/paramedic services for quick emergency response times; street lighting for safety; and other services, shall City of Vacaville Ordinance No. 1844 be approved to enact a quarter- cent transactions and use (sales) tax for five years, with all funds staying locally with the City of Vacaville?	YES
	NO

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

Background

As a result of the current statewide economic downturn and
resulting decline in sales and property tax revenues and the
elimination of redevelopment agencies by the State of California,
the City of Vacaville has experienced a reduction in revenue, which
has required the City to reduce its work force by approximately
twenty-five percent (25%), decrease employee salaries and
benefits, and curtail expenditures on equipment, supplies, and
services, resulting in a reduction of City services and facilities
provided to persons living and working in Vacaville. Despite these
reductions in expenditures, the City’s general fund is projected to
have a deficit of $1.5 million in fiscal year 2013/2014 and $2.7
million in fiscal year 2014/2015. The deficit is projected to continue
beyond fiscal year 2014/2015.

The Measure

The City Council of the City of Vacaville has placed this Measure
on the ballot, asking voters to approve a temporary one-quarter
cent transactions and use tax for a period of five years. The tax,
commonly referred to as a “sales tax”, would increase the current
sales tax rate by a quarter of a cent, from 7.375% to 7.625% for
five years.

With some exceptions, the sales tax is levied on the sale or use
of tangible products purchased by residents and visitors to the
City, such as clothing, household products, and other goods. The
tax, however, is not levied on all sales, such as the sale of many
grocery products.

Sales tax rates differ throughout California, generally ranging from
7.25% to 8.75%. Currently, the total existing tax on retail sales
in Vacaville is 7.375% of the purchase price. The City receives

0.75%% of the revenue generated by the sales tax, with the
remainder going to the State (6.25%), Solano County (0.25%), and

the Solano County Library (0.125%). This Measure would increase
the City’s share of the sales tax from 0.75% to 1% for five years.
The additional tax is a local tax. Its revenue stays with the City and
may not be taken or used by any other governmental agency, such
as the state or federal government. Should the state or federal
government seek to take or use all or any portion of the tax, the
Measure provides that the tax will be reduced or not collected in
order to offset such taking or use.

Use of Proceeds

The Measure is a general tax, not a special tax. Therefore, the
City may use the revenue for general municipal purposes such as
police and fire protection, gang suppression, ambulance service,
street repair, park maintenance, recreation programs, public parks,
sports fields, roadway improvements, the McBride Senior Center,
the Walter V. Graham Aquatics Center, the Ulatis Community
Center, the Vacaville Performing Arts Theater, funding for local
libraries, and other services and facilities that promote the public
health, safety, and welfare of Vacaville residents.

Fiscal Impact

As noted, the Measure would levy an additional quarter-cent tax
sales tax on certain retail sales for a period of five years to help
avoid further reductions in City services and facilities.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve the additional quarter-cent tax
for five years. A “no” vote is a vote against the tax. This Measure
requires a simple majority of “yes” votes to become effective.

si Gerald L. Hobrecht, City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure
M. If you desire a copy of the Measure, please call the City
Clerk’s Office at 707-449-5100 and a copy will be mailed to
you at no cost.

■

Solano 48 / 39

4 8/39

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

Measure M is a companion to Measure I to put VACAVILLE FIRST.

Voting YES on I & M stabilizes LOCAL funding, minimizes cuts to
essential LOCAL services, and keeps our LOCAL tax dollars in
Vacaville.

THE PROBLEM

■ The State of California has taken nearly S60 million from
Vacaville since 2004 on top of funding lost due to the
economic downturn

-	Vacaville has a nearly $3 million annual deficit that forecasts
show will grow

-	A critical source of local funding that has supported
Vacaville’s facilities/services for 25 years will expire next
year (would be renewed by Measure I)

-	Vacaville has already made deep cuts by reducing staffing
and cutting employee salaries/benefits

-	There is nothing left to cut but services that impact our
safety and quality of life

WHAT IS ON THE LINE

Without Measures I & M, Vacaville will make deep cuts to vital local
services:

-	Eliminating police programs that fight gang activity, domestic
violence, child/elder abuse

-	Reducing the number of firefighters/paramedics, resulting in
slower emergency response

-	Turning off street lights and reducing road maintenance

-	Eliminating afterschool programs, access to parks/
recreation, and services that help seniors remain
independent

-	Eliminating programs that attract businesses/jobs to
Vacaville

A LOCAL SOLUTION THAT PUTS VACAVILLE FIRST

Voting YES on M will:

-	Approve a temporary and modest 'H sales tax increase
(250 on a $100 purchase)

-	Keep Vacaville's sales tax lower than proposed rates in
neighboring communities

-	Require a strict 5-vear time limit that cannot be extended
without voter approval

-	Keep our dollars in Vacaville. Measure M funds cannot
be taken by Sacramento

Please join Vacaville’s police officers, firefighters, business and
community leaders and vote YES on I & M and put VACAVILLE
FIRST!

Vote NO on Measure M. It is not a long term solution, but only a delay
of the inevitable. That “temporary until extended" tax is projected to
raise $3.4-4 million annually.Tax advocates threaten essential services
will be cut if a tax increase is denied. Nice scare tactic. California can
no longer steal city funds due Proposition 22. View the big picture.
Vacaville’s General Fund budget is 74% for wages and benefits ($45.85
million); average salary/total compensation for each of 319 employees
is $94,389/$143,730. Average salary/total compensation of western
states employees is $45,260/$64,376. Reducing all city payrolls
10% will: provide the city more revenue than Measure M, provide the
employees with 200% of compensation in California and neighboring
states, allow local businesses to grow and increase employment, and
encourage customers from neighboring cities to shop in a lower tax
environment.

Measure M effect

Predicted annual revenue: $3.4—4 million. Long term results: Local
businesses will be weakened. The problem returns if tax expires in
five years.

With Measure M defeated and all salaries decreased bv 10%.

No service or program reductions and City has annual surplus
revenue exceeding $0.6+ million over Measure M projection. City
compensation is 100% over average market compensation. Quality
employees remain.

Some cities have adopted similar wage reductions. Vote NO and put
Vacaville in that leadership group. Sooner or later all cities will either:
follow that lead, seriously cut services while paying excess wages, or
follow Vallejo, Stockton, and San Bernardino.

s/ Solano County Taxpayers Association
Earl Heal, President

www.VacavilleFirst.ora

si Michael Kitzes
si Ed Santopadre
si Louis Franchimon
si Garland Porter
si Shea McGuire

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

Don’t increase our sales tax! Vote No! Measure M is unnecessary.
The problem is unrealistic pay scales and extravagant employee
pensions. Before we explain why, let us present the facts related to this
issue.

Vacaville’s annual budget is approximately $60 million of which
74% is for salaries, wages, and benefits. The hazard of high labor
costs has been recognized by local government officials for years,
but the absurd practice of cities comparing pay scales and competing
to pay the highest continued. Vacaville discontinued that practice in
recent years and has obtained some reduction of pay scales and some
employee participation in benefits cost. Unfortunately this progress is
far from complete.

1.	Measure M will hurt Vacaville retailers. Local merchants
already struggle to compete with Internet sellers who charge no sales
tax. Measure M would raise our sales tax, costing local merchants
even more business. Local stores provide jobs! They also pay property
taxes, income taxes, and sales taxes to Vacaville. Internet sellers pay
nothing to Vacaville! Why disadvantage local stores and possibly run
them out of business?

2.	Measure M will hurt Vacaville families on fixed and low incomes.
Sales taxes are not tiered. Low income families do not need higher
prices.

3.	Measure M is advertised deceptively. Although pitched as a
“temporary tax increase,” Measure I on this ballot proves there’s no
such thing. Measure I typically asks voters to extend another temporary
tax that is due to expire. The politicians then say “you’re already paying
it so it is not an increase."

Don't be fooled. If you increase Vacaville's sales tax today, you
will not see it reduce later. You will see Vacaville businesses cut jobs
or close their doors, while seniors and poor people are forced to pay
more for everyday purchases. Demand reform instead! Vote No!

si Solano County Taxpayers Association
Earl Heal, President

The opponent simply has his facts wrong.

Vacavilte has AGGRESSIVELY cut costs and employee
compensation

-	Employee salary, benefit and pension reductions have cut city
employee compensation by almost 20%

-	Staffing levels are 25% lower than five years ago, including 31
positions cut from the Police Department

-	Any additional cuts will directly impact essential services in
Vacaville

Vacaville businesses are very competitive - which is why they
SUPPORT MEASURE M

-	Vacaville’s sales tax rate is among the lowest in California

-	Even with Measure M, Vacaville’s rate would be lower than
proposed rates for Davis, Vallejo, Napa and Sacramento

-	Vacaville’s businesses know that crime prevention, emergency
response, road maintenance and economic development
maintain a positive business climate

-	Local business leaders and the Vacaville Chamber of Commerce
ENDORSE MEASURE M

Much of the cost will be paid bv people WHO DON’T LIVE IN
VACAVILLE

-	Sales taxes are paid by residents from other cities who shop at
the outlet stores and other businesses that serve the region

-	Essential purchases like food and medicine are exempted,
eliminating a burden on fixed income residents

-	Measure M adds just 25 cents to a $100 purchase

Bv law. Measure M AUTOMATICALLY EXPIRES IN 5 YEARS

-	Measure M is a temporary bridge until the economy improves

-	Measure M cannot be extended without voter approval

-	Specific legally-binding language prohibits the State from raiding
these funds

Put Vacaville First - YES ON M.

si Steve Hardy
si Louis Debartolo
s/ Scott Pardini
si Suzanne J. Clark
si Rick Martindale

Solano 48 / 41

'4 8 / 4 1

MEASUREM

ORDINANCE NO. 1844

ORDINANCE IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Vacaville Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Vacaville
hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days
after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of
the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered
and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon
all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier
for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to
the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of percent (0.25%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted

therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

Hill) III I III II
4 8/42

Solano 48 / 42

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board
of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to;

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and

Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law
or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from;

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to	operators of aircraft to be used	or

consumed	principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of	such aircraft as common carriers	of

persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside	the City, pursuant to the contract	of

sale, by delivery	to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For

the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied;

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of
tangible personal property;

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease
which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

Solano 48/43

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use
tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. USE OFTAX PROCEEDS. The tax imposed hereunder is a general tax, the proceeds of which shall be deposited into the
City's general fund and expended for any lawful purpose of the City.

Section 13. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 14. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue
in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 15. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 16. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall
take effect immediately upon approval of the voters.

Section 17. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire five (5) years after the date the
tax is first collected.

Section 18. PROTECTION OF FUNDING. Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the City because of City's
adoption of a transactions and use tax. However, if such funding is reduced as a result of the adoption of this transactions and use tax, then the
amount of the tax will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or federal funding. Consequently, whether directly or
indirectly, no proceeds derived from this may be taken away by the State or federal governments.

Section 19. ELECTION.

A.	Call of Election. A municipal election is hereby called and ordered to be held in the City on Tuesday, November 6,2012, at
which election there shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the City the proposition set forth below.

B.	Proposition. The proposition shall appear on the ballot for said municipal election in the following form:

“Measure to Protect Essential City of Vacaville Services. In order to protect essential City services from further reductions such as
police programs to fight domestic violence, child/elder abuse, gang activity and neighborhood crime; fire/paramedic services for quick
emergency response times; street lighting for safety; and other services, shall City of Vacaville Ordinance No. 1844 be approved to enact
a quarter-cent transactions and use (sales) tax for five years, with all funds staying locally with the City of Vacaville?"

The Council does hereby submit to the qualified voters of the City, at said municipal election, this Ordinance and the proposition set forth above.

C.	Submission: Intent. The Council does hereby submit to the qualified voters of the City, at said municipal election, this Ordinance
and the proposition set forth in Section 18 hereof.The City intends to levy the transactions and use tax for the objects and purposes set forth above
if a majority of all qualified voters voting on the proposition set forth above vote in favor thereof.

D.	Polls Open. The polls for said election shall be opened at seven o’clock A.M. of the day of said election and shall remain open
continuously from said time until eight o'clock P.M. of the same day, when said polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

4 8 / 4 4

Solano 48/44

E.	Consolidation With Statewide General Election. The municipal election hereby called for the date hereinbefore specified
shall be, and is hereby, ordered consolidated with the statewide general election to be held within the City on said date, and within the territory
affected by the consolidation, the election shall be held and conducted, election officers appointed, voting precincts designated, ballots printed,
polls opened and closed, ballots counted and returned, returns canvassed, results declared, and all other proceedings incidental to and connected
with the election shall be regulated and done in accordance with the provisions of law regulating the statewide general election and specified
herein. The Board of Supervisors of Solano County is hereby requested to order the consolidation of the municipal election hereby called with said
statewide general election, and the Board of Supervisors of the County of Solano is hereby authorized to canvass the returns of said municipal
election, and said election shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election and only one form of ballot shall be used. Said Board of
Supervisors shall certify the results of the canvass of the returns of said municipal election to the Council, which shall thereafter declare the results
thereof. The measure submitted by this Ordinance shall be designated on the ballot by a letter printed on the left margin of the square containing
the description of the measure, as provided in Section 13116 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

F.	County Registrar of Voters’ Services. The Board of Supervisors of Solano County is hereby requested to permit the County
Registrar of Voters to provide such services as may be necessary to properly and lawfully hold and conduct a municipal election in the City on
November 6, 2012, including, but not limited to, consolidation of precincts; recruitment and appointment of election officers; establishment of
polling places; preparing and mailing notices of appointment; printing sample ballots, sample ballot envelopes, ballot measures, polling place
cards, ballot arguments and mailing to registered voters; the providing and printing of official ballots and polling cards; purchase election supplies,
including precinct and absent voter supplies, voting booths and flags; provide for absentee voting at the Office of Registrar of Voters, Election
Division; cartage of voting booths, ballots, ballot boxes and precinct supplies to precincts; supervision and conduct of election; provide registration
lists and any other materials and services that may be requested from time to time by the City Clerk or required to lawfully conduct the election in
accordance with the California Elections Code.

G.	Canvass of Returns. The County Registrar of Voters is hereby authorized to tabulate votes and canvass the returns of the
municipal election, which shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election. Only one form of ballot shall be used and the returns of
the election need not be canvassed by the Council. The canvass shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Division 15 (commencing
with Section 15000) of the California Elections Code. The County Clerk shall declare the results of the canvass of the returns of the municipal
election, based on the certified statement of results submitted by the County Registrar of Voters.

H.	Reimbursement. The City shall reimburse the County of Solano for services performed pursuant to this Ordinance upon
presentation of a bill to the City.

I.	Voting Qualifications. All persons qualified to vote at general municipal elections in the City upon the date of the election
herein provided for shall be qualified to vote upon the proposition submitted at said election.

J.	Ballots. Ballots for the election shall be provided in the form and in the number provided by law. On said ballots, in addition to
any other printed matter which may be required by law, two voting squares shall be set off to the right of the proposition submitted at the election,
in the manner provided by law, one having the word “YES" printed before it, and the other having the word “NO" printed before it.

K.	Method of Voting. Each voter to vote for the proposition shall stamp or write a cross, or indicate by hole punch or other means,
in the blank space opposite the word “YES” on the ballot to the right of the proposition; and each voter to vote against the proposition shall stamp
or write a cross, or indicate by hole punch or other means, in the blank space opposite the word “NO” on the ballot to the right of the proposition.

L.	Compliance with Law. In all particulars not recited in this Ordinance, the election shall be held and conducted as provided by
law for holding municipal elections.

M.	City Clerk. The notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City Clerk is directed to give further
or additional notice of the election in the time, form and manner as required by law. The City Clerk is hereby directed to file with the Board of
Supervisors of Solano County and the County Registrar of Voters a certified copy of this Ordinance and to take all other actions necessary to
effectuate the directives of this Ordinance including, but not limited to, revising the language of the proposition set forth in Section 19.A to ensure
that it complies with law. The City Clerk is directed to transmit to the City Attorney a copy of this Ordinance and the City Attorney is directed to
prepare an impartial analysis thereof consistent with applicable law.

I HEREBY CERTIFY that this Ordinance was INTRODUCED at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Vacaville, held on
the 26th day of June, 2012, and ADOPTED AND PASSED at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Vacaville, held on the lO^day
of July, 2012, by the following vote:

AYES:	Council	members Harris, Hunt, Mashburn, Vice-Mayor Rowlett and Mayor Hardy

NOES:	None

ABSENT: None

ATTEST:	APPROVED:

By:	_______________________________________ _______________________________________________________

Michelle A. Thornbrugh, City Clerk	Stephen M. Hardy, Mayor