CITY OF CHICO
MEASURE J

Proposed Ordinance to Modernize the City’s
Telephone Users’ Tax. Shall an ordinance be
adopted to amend the City’s Telephone User’s Tax
in order to: 1) reduce the tax rate from 5% to 4.5%;
2) modernize the definition of telephone
communication services subject to the tax to
include new technologies such as wireless and
voice over internet services; 3) apply the tax to all
telephone communications services regardless of
the type of technology used; and 4) reflect changes
to federal and state law?

Yes	No

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE J

Measure J, if approved by a majority vote, would
authorize an amendment to the City of Chico
Municipal Code regarding the City’s telephone users’
tax.

Since 1970, the City of Chico has imposed a
telephone users’ tax paid by telephone customers on
their telephone bills. All revenue generated goes into
the City’s general fund which is used to fund general
City services and programs.

The City’s existing ordinance, like many similar tax
ordinances throughout the state, defines which
telephone communications services are subject to the
tax by referencing definitions in the federal excise tax
on telephones. Since that time, new communications
technologies have been introduced, such as cellular
phones and voice over the internet telephone
services, and there have been changes to federal
law, including the adoption of the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000 and
changes in the IRS’s application of the federal excise
tax on long distance service. Taxes imposed by
other California cities that contain language similar to
the City’s existing ordinance have been the subject of
legal disputes based on these changes and this has
created uncertainty about the application and reach
of the City’s tax. An adverse ruling in such a case
could result in a substantial decrease in the revenues
collected under the City’s current ordinance.
Passage of this measure would protect the City from
similar litigation or claims and prevent the loss of
those revenues.

Measure J would:

•	Reduce the current tax rate from 5% to 4.5%;

•	Apply the tax to all users of telephone
communications services regardless of the means
of transmission or technology used to provide
such services, including users of cellular services,
private communication services, voice over
internet services, paging, text messaging and
traditional land line services; and

•	Define telephone communications services that
are subject to the tax to include intrastate,
interstate, and international communications.

The tax would not apply to internet services.
Furthermore, the tax would not apply to charges for
internet services such as email and digital downloads
of items such as books, music, games and ringtones.

A “Yes” vote is in favor of adopting the ordinance
amending the telephone users’ tax. A “No” vote is
against adopting the ordinance. A majority of “Yes”
votes is required for the ordinance to be enacted.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure J. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or
measure, please call the elections official’s office at
530-896-7250 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to
you.

/s/ Lori J. Barker

City Attorney, City of Chico

Butte County

04-11-6-12-514

Contest: 8568

0411612514

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J

We recommend approval of Measure J to protect
existing revenue to continue vital services for the
residents of the City of Chico.

The City of Chico is at risk of losing $900,000 each
year if voters do not approve Measure J to modernize
the language of its current Users Utility Tax (UUT)
ordinance. This would represent a significant
reduction in General Fund revenue. The primary
purpose of amending the telephone users’ tax is to
protect existing revenue for the General Fund. A loss
of $900,000 a year would result in reduced police and
fire services, road maintenance and park funds.

In recent years, there have been significant changes
in both technology and billing practices. The use of
wireless services and voice over internet protocol has
become widespread, billing for local and long
distance services is frequently bundled, and long
distance calls are not always billed based on time
and distance, even for land lines.

To protect against the risk of losing tax revenues in
the face of legal issues, approval of Measure J will
modernize this existing tax to ensure that all users of
communication services are treated the same,
regardless of the type of technology they are using or
billing practices employed by their providers.

This proposed amendment includes a slight rate
reduction, from 5% to 4.5%. This rate, if applied to
the average cell phone bill of $50 per month, would
equate to a monthly charge of $2.25 as opposed to
the current charge of $2.50.

Vote yes for Measure J and protect existing police,
fire, roads and parks in the City of Chico.

/s/ Ann Schwab, Mayor
/s/ Jim Walker, Vice Mayor
/s/ Mary Goloff, Council Member
/s/ Andy Holcombe, Council Member
/s/ Scott Gruendl, Council Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE J

Vote no for a cell phone tax.

Vote no for a new tax on all other forms of electronic
communications services.

Vote no on Measure J.

The city already collects many millions of dollars in
taxes on basic life necessities such as water, natural

gas and electricity. Now the city bureaucrats want to
perfect their tax on cell phone services and create a
new tax on all other forms electronic communication
services. Vote no.

The businesses, and the men, women and children of
Chico already spend over $18 million per year for
cellular phone services, and the city bureaucrats want
a 4.5% city tax on those services? Vote no.

Vote no on Measure J.

/s/ Mark Sorensen, Council Member, Business Owner
/s/ Robert W. Evans, Council Member
/s/ Andrew Coolidge, Council Candidate/Business
Owner

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE J

Vote no for more taxation, vote no on Measure J.

The bloated Chico bureaucracy already extracts over
$6.5 million per year from its struggling businesses
and citizens by taxing basic life necessities such as
water, electricity, natural gas and traditional telephone
services, and now the Chico bureaucracy wants to
expand that tax to apply to cellular phone services
and every form of electronic communication service
existing now, and those yet to be invented.

The sales pitch of a supposed reduction in tax rate
(only on telephone services) diverts your attention
from the goal of expanding the tax to new
communications services, and the resultant tax
revenue increases.

Taxing life’s basic necessities must stop. These
regressive taxes disproportionately harm lower
income families at a time when they already struggle
to pay for ever increasing service costs.

Chico City Taxes on water, electricity, natural gas and
phone services are bleeding Chico’s citizens and
businesses dry. It is time to say no more. Chico is at
a competitive business disadvantage to other
communities. City government must tighten its belt by
cutting back on nonessential programs and services.

Do not be fooled, Measure J would expand the Utility
Tax to cell phone services and all other forms of
electronic communications.

We just cannot afford it.

Vote no on Measure J.

/s/ Mark Sorensen, Council Member
/s/ Robert W. Evans, Council Member

Butte County

04-11-6-12-515

Contest: 8568

0411612515

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE J

Measure J is the right thing to do to keep Chico
solvent. The measure merely modernizes an existing
tax to maintain current revenues that directly support
public safety and roads. Technology has changed so
the way that it is taxed must change just to maintain
existing revenue. Utility User Tax funding has
decreased since cell phone couriers have stopped
collecting the tax because our code is out dated.

Fiscal crises are best avoided through a mix of cuts
and revenue. The City Council has implemented
cuts, including twenty percent less city staff,
elimination of formula pay raise schemes, and
employees have reduced salaries and benefits, just
to name a few. Compared to the past, the city’s
budgets are a third smaller yet balanced. Measure J
opponents cannot point to many examples of waste.

Measure J is cost neutral because existing revenue
levels can be maintained with a lower tax rate. This
is helpful to taxpayers and helps the city deal with
difficult economic times. There is absolutely nothing
deceitful about the measure as the opponents argue.
If we eliminate the tax as the opponents suggest then
there will be less police and fire protection, as well as
worse road conditions. Is that really worth saving
about $30 a year?

Don’t be misled, there is a reason why Chico has
remained solvent during a time of municipal
bankruptcies. Measure J is your chance to help.
Keep our community healthy and vibrant, vote yes on
Measure J.

Is/ Scott Gruendl, Council Member
Is/ Ann Schwab, Mayor
Is/ Jim Walker, Vice Mayor
Is/ Andy Holcombe, Council Member

EXHIBIT A
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE J

ORDINANCE NO.____

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CHICO
AMENDING CHAPTER 3.56 OF THE CHICO
MUNICIPAL
CODE REGARDING MODERNIZING THE
APPLICATION OF THE
TELEPHONE USER’S TAX

BE IT ORDAINED by the People of the City
of Chico as follows:

Section 1. That section 3.56.010 of the
Chico Municipal Code, entitled “Definitions,” is
amended to add a new subsection D to read as
follows:

D.	Telephone communication services’
shall mean and include the transmission,
conveyance, or routing of voice, data,
audio, video, or any other information or
signals to a point, or between or among
points, whether or not such information is
transmitted through interconnected
service with the public switched network,
whatever the technology used, whether
such transmission, conveyance or
routing occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic,
light wave, laser, microwave, radio wave
(including, but not limited to, cellular
service, commercial mobile service,
personal communications service (PCS),
specialized mobile radio (SMR), and
other types of personal wireless service-
see	47	USCA	§

332(c)(7)(C)(i)-regardless of radio
spectrum used), switching facilities,
satellite or any other technology now
existing or developed after the adoption
of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
and includes, without limitation, fiber
optic, coaxial cable, and wireless. The
term ‘telephone communication services’
includes such transmission, conveyance,
or routing in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form,
code or protocol of the content for
purposes of transmission, conveyance or
routing without regard to whether such
services are referred to as voice over
internet protocol (VoIP) services or are
classified by the Federal
Communications Commission as
enhanced or value added, and includes
video and/or data services that are
functionally	integrated	with

telecommunications	services.

Telephone communication services’
include, but are not limited to, the
following services regardless of the
manner or basis on which such services
are calculated or billed: central office and
custom calling features (including but not
limited to call waiting, call forwarding,
caller identification and three-way
calling), local number portability, text
messaging, ancillary telecommunication
services, prepaid and post-paid

CONTINUED NEXT PAGE

Butte County

04-11-6-12-516

Contest: 8568

0411612516

EXHIBIT A FULL TEXT OF MEASURE J CONTINUED

telecommunications services (including but
not limited to prepaid calling cards); mobile
telecommunications service; private
telecommunication service; paging service;
800 service (or any other toll-free numbers
designated by the Federal Communications
Commission); and value-added non-voice
data service. For purposes of this section,
‘private telecommunication service’ means
any dedicated telephone communications
service that entitles a user to exclusive or
priority use of communications channels.
Telephone communication service’ does not
include: internet access services to the extent
they are exempt from taxation under the
Internet Tax Freedom Act, 47 U.S.C. 151
note; video programming services; and digital
downloads, such as downloads of books,
music, ringtones, games and similar digital
products.

Section 2. That section 3.56.010 of the
Chico Municipal Code, entitled “Definitions,” is
amended to add a new subsection E., to read as
follows:

E.	‘Ancillary telephone communication
services’ shall mean services that are
associated with or incidental to the
provision, use or enjoyment of telephone
communication services including, but
not limited to, the following:

1.	Services that link two or more
participants of an audio or video
conference call, including the
provision of a telephone number.

2.	Services that separately state
information pertaining to individual
calls on a customer’s billing
statement.

3.	Services that provide telephone
number information, and/or address
information.

4.	Services offered in connection
with one or more telephone
communications services, which offer
advanced calling features that allow
customers to identify callers and to
manage multiple calls and call
connections.

5.	Services that enable customers to
store, send or receive recorded
messages.

Section 3. That section 3.56.030 of the
Chico Municipal Code, entitled “Telephone users’ tax,”
is amended to read as follows:

3.56.030	Telephone users’ tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every

person other than a telephone corporation
who uses any international, interstate
and/or	intrastate	telephone

communication services in the City.
Interstate calls shall include calls to and
from the District of Columbia or any U.S.
territory. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of four and one-half
percent (4.5%) of the charges made for
such telephone communication services.
The tax shall be collected from the service
user by the telephone communication
services supplier or its billing agent. To
the extent allowed by federal and state
law, the tax on telephone communication
services is intended to, and does, apply to
all charges within the city’s tax
jurisdiction, such as charges billed to a
telephone account having a situs in the
city as permitted by the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act of
2000, 4 U.S.C. § 116 et seq. There are
rebuttable presumptions that telephone
communication services billed to a billing
or service address in the city are used, in
whole or in part, within the city’s
boundaries, and that such services are
subject to taxation under this chapter.
There is also a rebuttable presumption
that telephone communication services
sold within the city that are not billed to a
billing address or provided to a primary
physical location are used, in whole or in
part, within the city’s boundaries and that
such services are subject to taxation
under this chapter.

B.	The following shall be exempt from the tax
imposed by this section:

CONTINUED NEXT PAGE

Butte County

04-11-6-12-517

Contest: 8568

0411612517

EXHIBIT A FULL TEXT OF MEASURE J CONTINUED

1.	Charges for services paid for by
inserting coins in coin-operated
telephones; except that where
such coin-operated telephone
service is furnished for a
guaranteed amount, the amounts
paid under such guarantee, plus
any fixed monthly or other
periodic charge shall be included
in the base for computing the
amount of tax due; nor shall the
term “telephone communication
services” include land mobile
services or maritime mobile
services as defined in § 2.1 of
Title 47 of the Code of Federal
Regulations, as such section
existed on October 1, 1967.

2.	Telephones used by a telephone
company in the conduct of its
business pursuant to § 3.56.180
of this Code.

3.	Low income persons as provided
in § 3.56.200 of this Code.

C.	The tax on telephone communication
services imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the
service supplier. The amount of tax
collected in one month shall be remitted
to the finance director on or before the
last day of the following month; and must
be received by the finance director on or
before that date.

D.	As used in this section, the term
“charges” shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every
kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange
for the telephone communication
services. If a non-taxable service and a
taxable service are billed together under
a single charge, the entire charge shall
be deemed taxable unless the service
supplier identifies non-taxable charges by
verifiable data reflected in its books and
records that are kept in the regular
course of business and consistently with
generally accepted accounting principles.
The service supplier has the burden of
proving the proper apportionment of
taxable and non-taxable charges.

E.	As used in this section, the term charges”

shall no include charges for any type of
service or equipment furnished by a
service supplier subject to public utility
regulation during any period in which the
same or similar services or equipment are
also available for sale or lease from
persons other than a service supplier
subject to public utility regulation.

F.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional
taxation of telephone communication
services subject to tax under this section,
any service user, upon proof to the
finance director that the service user has
previously paid the same tax in another
American jurisdiction on such telephone
communication services, shall be allowed
a credit against the tax imposed to the
extent of the amount of such tax legally
imposed in such other American
jurisdiction; provided, however, the
amount of credit shall not exceed the tax
owed to the city under this section.

G.	The finance director may, from time to time, issue
and disseminate	to	telephone

communication service suppliers which
are subject to the tax collection
requirements of	this	chapter

administrative determinations identifying
those telephone communication services
that are subject to the tax of subsection
(A) above. The administrative
determinations shall implement the intent
of the city council that the telephone
users’ tax be imposed on any person who
initiates or receives high-quality voice
communications without regard to the
type or kind of transmission media or
technology that exists on the date the
amendments to this section became
effective or which may be developed in
the future. Such administrative rulings
shall be consistent with legal nexus and
laws pertaining to telephone
communications services and shall not
impose a new tax, revise an existing tax
methodology, or increase an existing tax,
except as allowed by California
Government Code §§ 53750(h)(2) and
(h)(3) or other law. The finance director
may consider state-wide interpretive rules
and guidelines promulgated by any
government agency or association of

CONTINUED NEXT PAGE

Butte County

04-11-6-12-518

Contest: 8568

0411612518

EXHIBIT A FULL TEXT OF MEASURE J CONTINUED

government agencies as a factor in
determining the intent of voters adopting
this section. To the extent that the
finance director determines that the tax
imposed under this section shall not be
collected in full for any period of time,
such an administrative determination falls
within the finance director’s discretion to
settle disputes. The finance director’s
exercise of discretion under this chapter
does not constitute a change in taxing
methodology for purposes of
Government Code § 53750(h), and the
city does not waive or abrogate its right
to collect the telephone users’ tax in full
as a result of issuing such administrative
determinations and may suspend such
determination and recommence
collection of the tax without additional
voter approval. The administrative
determination shall be consistent with
and shall not impose a new tax or
increase an existing tax without voter
approval.

H.	1. For purposes of imposing a tax or
establishing a duty to collect and
remit a tax under this section,
“substantial nexus” and “minimum
contacts” shall be construed broadly
in favor of the imposition, collection
and/or remittance of the utility users
tax to the fullest extent permitted by
state and federal law, and as that law
may change from time to time. Any
telephone communication service
(including VoIP) used by a person
with a service address in the city,
which service is capable of
terminating a call to another person
on the general telephone network,
shall be subject to a rebuttable
presumption that “substantial nexus”
exists or “minimum contacts” exist for
purposes of imposing a tax or
establishing a duty to collect and
remit a tax under this chapter.

2. A service supplier shall be deemed to
have sufficient activity in the city to
be obligated to collect and remit the
tax imposed by this chapter if it does
any of the following: maintains or has
within the city, directly or through an
agent or subsidiary, a place of
business of any nature; solicits
business in the city by employees,

independent contactors, resellers,
agents or other representatives;
solicits business in the city by means
of advertising that is broadcast or
relayed from a transmitter within the
city or distributed from a location
within the city; or advertises in
newspapers or other periodicals
printed and published within the city
or through materials distributed in the
city by means other than the United
States mail.

Section 4. That section 3.56.220 is added to
Chico Municipal Code, entitled to read as follows:

3.56.220 Effect of state and federal

authorization.

To the extent that the city’s authorization to
impose or collect any tax imposed under this chapter
is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state
or federal law, no amendment or modification of this
chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those
changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected
to the full extent of the city’s authorization up to the full
amount of the tax imposed under this chapter.

Section 5. Amendment of Ordinance.

Chapter 3.56 of the Chico Municipal Code as
amended by this Ordinance may be repealed or
amended by the City Council without a vote of the
people except as follows: as required by Proposition
218, any amendment to that chapter that increases
the amount or rate of tax beyond the levels authorized
by this Ordinance may not take effect unless
approved by a vote of the people. The City Council
may impose the taxes authorized by that chapter in
any amount or rate which does not exceed the rate
approved by the voters of the City.

Section 6. Severability.

If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this Ordinance is held to be invalid or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction for
any reason, the remaining sections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, or portions of this ordinance shall
nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The
People of the City of Chico hereby declare that they
would have adopted each section, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be
declared invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the
provisions of this Ordinance are severable.

CONTINUED NEXT PAGE

Butte County

04-11-6-12-519

Contest: 8568

0411612519

Section 7. Majority	Approval;

Effective Date; Execution.

This Ordinance shall be effective only if
approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon
and shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is
declared by the City Council. The City Clerk is
hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this
Ordinance where indicated below.

I HEREBY ATTEST THAT THIS ORDINANCE
WAS ADOPTED by the voters of the City of Chico in

an election held for that purpose on_____

______________, 2012.

ATTEST:	APPROVED AS TO FORM:

__________________ /s/ Lori J. Barker____

Deborah R. Presson, Lori J. Barker,

City Clerk	City Attorney

Butte County

04-11-6-12-520

Contest: 8568

0411612520