BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

Official Use Only: Date Stamp

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
Jurisdiction Name:cjty Qf Albany	Election Date: Novemb0r6 ^

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.

Insert ballot title/question text here:

| To maintain and provide city services and facilities, including:

Fire and Police protection, safety, and emergency response
Recreational programs, parks, playgrounds, and open space
Senior and youth programs and facilities
Community development and environmental preservation
And other general city services and facilities,

Shall the City of Albany enact a one-half cent sales tax, with annual
independent audits, to end after eight years, with all funds spent only in
Albany?

Yes_____	No____

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS_________________________

Majority

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed In the Voter Information Pamphlet:

B YES (note: electronic version must be submitted via e-mail or on a CD)
□ NO

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

Print Name:  Nicole Almaguer		Date:  08/06/2012
Signature: / / /  fjU•' —'		
CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)	CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)	
Phone #:ge| 05285722	Phone #:5105285722	
E-Mail:  nalmaguer@albanyca.org	E-Mail/Website:  nalmaguer@albanyca.org	

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE

The City Council has placed before the voters the question whether to approve an ordinance
enacting a temporary transactions and use tax within the City of Albany to fund City services
such as fire and police, parks and recreation, senior and youth programs and facilities,
community development, environmental preservation, and other general City services and
facilities. The tax rate would be one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the retail sales price, or one-
half cent for an item that costs one dollar. The tax would remain in effect for eight years. A full
copy of the ordinance text is printed in these ballot materials.

Technically, the existing "sales tax" is a combination of "sales and use tax" and "transactions
and use tax." Both are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail,
with certain limited exceptions. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds
to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.

Currently, the tax on retail sales in Albany is 8.75% of the purchase price. This measure would
authorize a 0.50% transactions and use tax, which would increase the total sales tax rate to
9.25%. The tax would automatically terminate eight years after it becomes operative, unless
extended by the voters.

The tax proceeds would be deposited into the City's general fund and be available to support
the full range of municipal services. Because this measure does not legally restrict the use of
tax revenue to any specific purposes, it is classified as a "general tax," not a "special tax." The
tax proceeds may be used for any valid municipal governmental purpose and cannot legally be
taken away by the State.

This measure requires the City's independent auditors to prepare an annual audit report
reviewing the collection, management and expenditure of revenue from the tax. The audit
report will be a matter of public record.

A "Yes" vote is a vote in favor of the tax. A "No" vote is a vote against the tax. This measure
will be approved if it receives a simple majority of "Yes" votes.

DATED: August 10, 2012

Craig Labadie, City Attorney

Argument in Favor of Measure F

Ballot Statement in Support of the Transactions and Use Tax to be Administered by the State
Board of Equalization.

The City of Albany has worked hard to maintain fiscal stability, and has avoided the dire fiscal
consequences other cities have faced. Early in the recession, Council and Staff instituted many
belt-tightening steps. Flowever, the deep and long economic recession has resulted in reduced
financial resources available to local governments from State and Federal sources.

Staff and community workshops have generated ideas used to restructure many operations,
reduce costs and make budget cuts. Cutting the number of employees, reducing compensation,
sharing staff with other cities, and stretching dollars have already occurred.

Nevertheless, it is clear the City has reached capacity limitations that will cause it to fall short in
meeting existing requirements and expectations: for example, falling behind in maintaining safe
public facilities, keeping pace with mandates, safety concerns, technology updates, and filling
positions that have remained empty for several years. These limitations compromise the quality
of life and services that the Albany community receives.

While Albany has been very successful in obtaining grants, local matching funds are needed but
are in short supply. Moreover, grants generally fund capital projects rather than the services of
critical importance to the community.

The City of Albany has seen revenues flatten and decline - as much as $1,000,000 from some
funding sources - or 6% of the budget - over the past several years. Because of current
limitations and loss of revenue, the City Council is recommending voters approve a 'A cent sales
tax that would expire after eight years.

With your support of this measure, Albany can continue to maintain and provide city services
and facilities, including: Fire and Police protection, safety, and emergency response; recreational
programs, parks, playgrounds, and open space; senior and youth programs and facilities;
community development and environmental preservation; and other general city services.

We urge a YES vote on Measure F.

Argument In Favor of Measure F

Signers

1.	Farid Javandel,

Albany Mayor

2.	Marge Atkinson

Albany Vice Mayor

3.	Jonathan Knight

Albany School Bard Vice-President

4.	Stephanie Sala

Small Business Owner

5.	Jewel Okawachi

Former Albany Mayor

ORDINANCE NO. 2012-03

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ALBANY IMPOSING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, since 2009, the City of Albany has seen its revenues flatten and decline, notably the
annual real property transfer tax revenue, which has declined by approximately $1 million over the
course of the past several years; and

WHEREAS, the City Council and City staff have restructured City operations, reduced costs, and
made budget cuts to adapt to diminishing financial resources; and

WHEREAS, the City currently has held vacant police officer and public safety dispatcher
positions as well as not filling, restructuring, or eliminating positions in recreation programming,
public works, planning and administration; and

WHEREAS, to reduce expenses the City is sharing a Fire Chief with the City of Piedmont and an
Information Technology Manager with the City of Emeryville; and

WHEREAS, take-home pay for most City employees has dropped by four percent or more in the
past year, all employees in a pension program will have to pay the full costs for the employee
share of pension costs, and new employees will receive lower pension benefits; and

WHEREAS, in 2011 the City conducted staff and community workshops to generate ideas for
reducing costs or increasing revenues, then incorporated short-term ideas into the 2011-12 budget
and reviewed medium to long-range ideas at a City Council meeting on November 21, 2011; and

WHEREAS, the City has worked hard to maintain stability in the midst of the economic turmoil
that has reduced financial resources available to local governments throughout the State and

country; and

WHEREAS, at meetings in April 2012, the City Council received a staff report documenting the
capacity limitations which are causing the City to fall short in meeting existing requirements and
expectations and to fall behind in maintaining safe public facilities and keeping pace with
mandates, safety concerns, and changing demographics and technology; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council has determined that the best option
available to the City for addressing these concerns is to request voter approval for a Transactions
and Use (Sales) Tax at the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) to remain in effect for a period of
eight years; and

WHEREAS, the tax, if approved, would be imposed on the sale of tangible personal property and
the storage, use, or other consumption of such property and the tax revenue would be collected
by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City; and

1

WHEREAS, the proposed transactions and use tax to be submitted to the voters is a general tax
that can be used for any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a committed to any particular
purposes; and the specific purposes recited in the ballot measure are for illustration only and not a
restriction or limitation on the use of tax proceeds; and the measure shall be approved if it
receives at least a simple majority of affirmative votes.

NOW THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF ALBANY DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Article 4-12 is hereby added to Chapter IV of the Albany Municipal Code, to
read as follows:

4-12 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

4-12.1 TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Albany Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Albany hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

4-12.2 OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

4-12.3 PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those

purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of
the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

2

4-12.4 CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

4-12.5 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
City at the rate of 0.5% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

4-12.6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated
shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board
of Equalization.

4-12.7 USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate
of 0.5% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

4-12.8 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part

1.6	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made
a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

4-12.9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

3

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

4-12.10 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not
be required by this ordinance.

4-12.11 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

4

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in
the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

4-12.12	AMENDMENTS.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this

ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

6

4-12.13 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

4-12.14	ANNUAL AUDIT.	By no later than December 31st of each year after the

operative date, the City's independent auditors shall complete a report reviewing the collection,
management and expenditure of revenue from the tax levied by this Article.

4-12.15 SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

4-12.16	EFFECTIVE DATE.	This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting

of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

4-12.17	TERMINATION DATE.	The authority to levy the tax imposed by this

ordinance shall expire eight (8) years after the first tax is collected.

Section 2. The People of the City of Albany find that all Recitals contained in this
Ordinance are true and correct and are incorporated herein by reference.

Section 3. The findings for this ordinance in compliance with the California Environmental
Quality Act ("CEQA") are the same as those set forth in the City's Resolution No. 2012-42 calling
for an election on this Ordinance. The CEQA findings set forth in Resolution No. 2012-42 are
incorporated herein by reference.

Section 4.	If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or

circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance and the application of such provision
to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 5. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collection of the City Transactions and
Use Taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Ordinance No. 2012-03 was submitted to the People of the City of Albany at the November 6,
2012 general municipal election. It was approved by the following vote of the People:

YES:

NO:

Ordinance No. 2012-03 was thereby adopted by the voters at the November 6, 2012 election
and took effect upon adoption of a resolution declaring the results of the election at a regular
meeting of the City Council held on____________,	2012,	by	the	following	vote:

7

NOES:

ABSENT:

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of an ordinance duly and
regularly adopted by the People of the City of Albany, California.

Nicole Almaguer, City Clerk

8