SAMPLE BALLOT

MEASURE I

Use of Proceeds

MEASURE TO EXTEND EXISTING CITY OF VACAVILLE FUNDING WITH NO TAX RATE INCREASE.	
City Of Vacaville	
In order to continue funding for essential City services, such as libraries, street/park maintenance, public safety, the Performing Arts Center, and local programs for persons of all ages, including seniors and at-risk youth, shall City of Vacaville Ordinance No. 1843 be approved to continue the existing excise tax for twenty-five years without increasing current tax rates and with all funds staying locally with the City of Vacaville?	YES
	NO

Like existing Measure 1, the tax is a local, general tax, not a special
tax, which will be used to fund general City services and facilities,
as described above. Its revenue stays with the City and may not
be taken or used by any other governmental agency, such as the
state or federal government. Its revenue will fund City services and
facilities only.

Fiscal Impact

The proposed general tax will continue the existing tax at the same
rates.

A “yes” vote is a vote to continue the tax for an additional twenty-
five years. A “no” vote is a vote against the tax. This Measure
requires a simple majority of “yes” votes to become effective.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

s/ Gerald L. Hobrecht, City Attorney

Background

In 1988, the voters of the City of Vacaville approved an excise
tax for the purpose of funding general municipal services and
facilities provided to persons living and working in Vacaville. The
tax, commonly referred to as “Measure I”, generates approximately
$2.4 million per year, which is deposited into the City’s General
Fund and used to provide a variety of City services and facilities
such as street repair, park maintenance, recreation programs,
public parks, sports fields, roadway improvements, the McBride
Senior Center, the Walter V. Graham Aquatics Center, the Ulatis
Community Center, the Vacaville Performing Arts Theater, funding
for local libraries, and other services and facilities that promote the
public health, safety, and welfare of persons living and working in
Vacaville. The excise tax is due to expire in December 2013.

As a result of the current statewide economic downturn and
resulting decrease in sales and property tax revenues and the
elimination of redevelopment agencies by the State of California,
the City has experienced a reduction in revenue, which has
required the City to reduce its work force by approximately twenty-
five percent (25%), decrease employees salaries and benefits,
and curtail expenditures on equipment, supplies, and services,
resulting in a reduction of City services and facilities provided to
persons living and working in Vacaville. Despite these reductions
in expenditures, the City's general fund is projected to have a
deficit of $1.5 million in fiscal year 2013/2014 and $2.7 million in
fiscal year 2014/2015. The deficit is projected to continue beyond
fiscal year 2014/2015. The tax will help to avoid further reductions
in municipal services and facilities.

The Measure

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure I. If
you desire a copy of the Measure, please call the City Clerk’s
Office at 707-449-5100 and a copy will be mailed to you at
no cost.

This Measure proposes to continue the tax at the same rate
structure for an additional twenty-five year term (the same term
as the existing Measure I). The rate structure cannot be increased
without a vote of the people. The manner of collection will not
change.

Solano 48/32

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 1	ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE 1
With many important choices on the ballot, only Measures 1 & M put VACAVILLE FIRST.	(None Filed)
Votina YES on 1 & M stabilizes LOCAL fundina. minimizes cuts to essential LOCAL services, and keeps our LOCAL tax dollars in Vacaville.	
THE PROBLEM  -	The State of California has taken nearlv SBO million from Vacaville since 2004 on too of fundina lost due to the economic downturn  -	Vacaville has a nearly $3 million an nual deficit that forecasts show will grow  -	A critical source of local funding (Measure 1) that has supported Vacaville’s facilities/services for 25 years wjH expire next vear  -	Vacaville has already made deep cuts by reducing staffing and cuffing employee salaries/benefits  -	There is nothina left to cut but services that impact our safetv and aualitv of life	
WHAT IS ON THE LINE	
Without Measures 1 & M, Vacaville will make deep cuts to vital local services:	
-	Eliminating police programs that fight gang activity, domestic violence, child/elder abuse  -	Reducing the number of firefighters/paramedics, resulting in slower emergency response  -	Turning off street lights and reducing road maintenance  -	Eliminating afterschool programs, access to parks/recreation, and services that help seniors remain independent  -	Eliminating programs that attract businesses/jobs to Vacaville	
A LOCAL SOLUTION THAT PUTS VACAVILLE FIRST	
Voting YES on 1 will:  -	Renew local funding that has been in place for 25 years  -	Extend the amount we already pay (less than $5/month) but WILL NOT INCREASE TAXES  -	Keep our dollars in Vacaville. Measure 1 funds cannot be taken by Sacramento	
Measures 1 & M are the top priority for Vacaville, but will appear toward the bottom of vour ballot. Don’t stop at the top. vote YES on 1 & M and out VACAVILLE FIRST!	
www.VacavilleFirst.ora	
si ANDREW T.SUIHKONEN si LEONARD J. AUGUSTINE si JOHN M. VASQUEZ si RICHARD J. RICO si ANGELA D.WEINZINGER	

Solano 48/33

4 8/33

MEASURE I
ORDINANCE NO. 1843

ORDINANCE PROPOSING THE IMPOSITION OF AN EXCISE TAX
FOR THE AVAILABILITY AND PRIVILEGE OF USE OF GENERAL MUNICIPAL
SERVICES AND FACILITIES AND ORDERING THE SUBMISSION OF A
PROPOSITION THEREFOR TO THE ELECTORATE OF THE CITY

WHEREAS, on November 8,1988, the voters ol the City of Vacaville (“City”) approved an excise tax for the purpose of funding general
municipal services and facilities provided to persons living and working in Vacaville; and

WHEREAS, such services and facilities include, but are not limited to, police and fire protection, gang suppression, ambulance service,
street repair, park maintenance, recreation programs, public parks, sports fields, roadway improvements, the McBride Senior Center, the Walter
V. Graham Aquatics Center, the Ulatis Community Center, the Vacaville Performing Arts Theater, funding for local libraries and other services and
facilities that promote and preserve the public health, safety, and welfare of persons living and working in Vacaville; and

WHEREAS, the City depends upon the excise tax, commonly referred to as “Measure I”, as a source of funding for the provision and
maintenance of such services and facilities; and

WHEREAS, Measure I annually generates about $2.3 million in tax revenues, which are deposited into the City’s general fund to fund
general municipal services and facilities; and

WHEREAS, as a result of the current statewide economic downturn and resulting impacts to sales and property taxes and the State of
California’s action to eliminate redevelopment agencies, the City has experienced a substantial reduction in revenue, which has required the City
to decrease employee salaries and benefits, reduce its work force by twenty-five percent (25%), and curtail expenditures on equipment, supplies,
and services, resulting in a reduction of municipal services and facilities provided to persons living and working in Vacaville; and

WHEREAS, despite these reductions in expenditures, the City’s general fund is projected to have a deficit of $1.4 million in fiscal year
2012/2013, which increases to $3.6 million in fiscal year 2014/2015; and

WHEREAS, the structural deficit in the City’s general fund is projected to continue beyond fiscal year 2014/2015; and

WHEREAS, Measure I is due to expire in December 2013; and

WHEREAS, in order to provide and maintain general municipal services and facilities, the Measure I excise tax must be maintained as
a funding source for such services and facilities; and

WHEREAS, this Ordinance will continue and maintain the current rates under Measure I and does not authorize an increase in those
rates without a vote of the people; and

WHEREAS, the revenues generated by this Ordinance will be used to provide and maintain general municipal services and facilities of
the City; and

WHEREAS, Government Code Section 53724 authorizes the Council to propose a general tax; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Section 9222 authorizes the City Council to submit an ordinance to the voters for their consideration and

approval.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VACAVILLE DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

ARTICLE 1

DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION

Section 1.01. Definitions. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in this Section for all purposes of this Ordinance
and of any amendment thereto shall have the meanings herein specified.

“City" means the City of Vacaville.

“Council" means the City Council of the City of Vacaville.

“Month" means a calendar month.

“Person” includes any person, firm, association, organization, partnership, business trust, corporation or company, but does not include
any municipal or public corporation.

“Operator" means a person required to collect and remit a tax imposed by this Ordinance against persons in category (d) of Section 2.02.

“Single-family residential unit” includes condominium unit.

''* 81 l 3 ^4

Solano 48/34

“Tax” means the tax imposed hereunder, as further described in Section 2.01.

“Transient basis” means for a period of 30 days or less.

“Tax Administrator” means the Director of Finance of the City or other person designated by the City Manager, from time to time.

Section 1.02. Rules of Construction. All references in this Ordinance to “Articles", “Sections” and other subdivisions are to the
corresponding Articles, Sections or subdivisions of this Ordinance; and the words “herein”, “hereof", “hereunder”, and other words of similar import
refer to this Ordinance as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or subdivision hereof.

Words of the masculine gender shall be deemed and construed to include correlative words of the feminine and neuter genders. Unless
the context shall otherwise indicate, words importing the singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa, and words importing
persons shall include corporations and associations, as well as natural persons.

Section 1.03. Benefit to all Persons. The City Council has found and determined and hereby declares that all persons residing,
doing business and occupying space as a transient in the City enjoy the privilege of using and benefit from the providing, by the City, of municipal
services and facilities including, without limitation the services and facilities herein described.

Section 1.04. Intent of City Council. The Tax is not: (i) a property tax, ad valorem or otherwise, (ii) a transaction tax, (iii) a sales
tax on real property, or (iv) a special tax; this determination shall be determinative. The Tax is intended to operate as an excise tax imposed as a
revenue measure for the availability and privilege of use of general municipal services and facilities; however, the denomination of the Tax in this
Ordinance as an excise tax shall not be deemed conclusive. The City Council declares that it would have adopted this Ordinance and imposed
the Tax even though it may be determined that the levy is in law not an excise but some other form of taxation that may be lawfully imposed by the
City. The Council recognizes that the Tax, as applied to persons in category (b) of Section 2.02, qualifies as a business license excise tax and, as
applied to persons in category (d) of Section 2.02, qualifies as a transient occupancy excise tax.

Section 1.05. Disposition of Proceeds. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be a revenue measure for general government
purposes; the proceeds of the Tax shall be paid into the general fund.

Section 1.06. Protection of Funding. Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the City because of City’s
adoption of an excise tax. However, if such funding is reduced as a result of the adoption of this excise tax, then the amount of the excise tax will be
reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or federal funding. Consequently, whether directly or indirectly, no proceeds derived
from this excise tax may be taken away by the State or federal governments.

ARTICLE 2
IMPOSITION OF TAX

Section 2.01. Imposition otTax. The Council hereby proposes the imposition of an excise tax for the availability and privilege of use
of general municipal services and facilities, herein described, the revenues from which will be used by the City to provide and maintain general
municipal services and facilities of the City. Said excise tax shall be known as the “Community Services and Facilities Tax” and is herein referred
to as the “Tax".

Section 2.02. Maximum Rates. The Tax shall be levied on all persons residing, doing business and occupying space as a transient
in the City as a tax on the privilege of using general municipal services and facilities of the City, at not to exceed the following rates:

(a)	as to persons occupying single-family residential units on other than a transient basis	$58.00 per residential unit per year
(b)	as to persons engaged in business activities subject to the City’s business license tax,	
	i) with one employee	$ 15.00 per year
	ii) with 2-5 employees	$ 60.00 per year
	iii) with 6-12 employees	$ 90.00 per year
	iv) with 13-25 employees	$120.00 per year
	v) with 26-50 employees	$180.00 per year
	vi) with 51-100 employees	$300.00 per year
	vii) with over 100 employees	$600.00 per year
(c)	as to persons residing as tenants in apartment units or mobile home parks for a period of longer than 30 days	$58.00 per rental unit per year
(d)	as to persons occupying a room or rooms in a hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, or other lodging for any period of 30 days or less	Two percent (2%) of the rent

4 8/35

Solano 48 / 35

Section 2.03. Methods of Collection. The Tax constitutes a debt owed by the persons identified in Section 2.02 to the City, which is
extinguished only by payment of the amount of the Tax in the manner herein provided.

As to persons in category (a) of Section 2.02, the Tax shall be added to and collected together with and not separately from and at
the same time and in the same manner and subject to the same penalties for nonpayment as the charges for water and sewer service rendered
by the City to occupied residential property; provided, that neither the water nor sewer service shall be discontinued because of nonpayment of
the Tax.

As to persons in categories (b) and (c) of Section 2.02, the Tax shall either: (i) be added to and collected together with and not separately
from and at the same times and in the same manner and subject to the same penalties for nonpayment as the City’s business license tax, or (ii)
collected by direct, periodic billing.

As to persons in category (d) of Section 2.02, the Tax shall be added to and collected together with and not separately from and at the
same times and in the same manner and by the same persons as the City’s transient occupancy tax.

Collection of the Tax from persons who are exempt from the City’s business license tax or transient occupancy tax shall be accomplished
by direct, periodic billing or other means deemed appropriate by the Tax Administrator.

The City may modify or amend the methods of collection herein set forth to clarify any ambiguity or uncertainty therein or to render the
collection of the Tax more effective or to minimize or ameliorate inequities or to provide a more efficient method of collection now or hereafter
provided by law.

Any Tax required to be paid by a person referred to in category (d) of Section 2.02 which has been collected by an Operator but which
has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the Operator. Any person owing money to the City under
the provisions of this Ordinance shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount plus the City’s cost of
recovery including, but not limited to, fees for attorneys and expert witnesses.

Section 2.04. Duration. The Tax shall be levied for a maximum of twenty-five (25) years from the date of its imposition, which shall be
the day following the expiration of the Measure I excise tax approved by the voters on November 8,1988.

ARTICLE 3
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

Section 3.01. Rules and Regulations. The Tax Administrator shall have power to adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Ordinance for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the Tax herein imposed;
and a copy of such rules and regulations shall be on file and available for public examination in the Tax Administrator’s office. Failure or refusal to
comply with any rules and regulations promulgated under this Ordinance shall be deemed a violation thereof.

Section 3.02. Exemption. Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person if imposition of such tax
upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution of the United States of the Constitution of the State of California.

Section 3.03. Reporting and Remitting. Each Operator shall, on or before the last day of each month, make a return to the Tax
Administrator, on forms provided by the Tax Administrator, stating the amount of tax collected by the Operator during the preceding month. At the
time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to require
such further information as the Tax Administrator deems necessary to properly determine if the tax imposed by this Ordinance is being levied and
collected in accordance with this Ordinance. Returns and remittances are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason.

Section 3.04. Assessment: Administrative Remedy. The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not paid or remitted
by a person required to pay or remit. The Tax Administrator shall prepare a notice of the assessment and of a public hearing thereon, which shall
refer briefly to the amount of the taxes and penalties imposed and the time and place where such assessment is payable and of the public hearing
that shall be submitted to the Council for confirmation or modification. The Tax Administrator shall mail a copy of such notice to the person taxed
(and to the Operator if the tax is payable by a person described in category (d) of Section 2.02) at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing
and shall post such notice for at least five (5) continuous days prior to the date of the hearing on the official bulletin board of the City where Council
meeting notices are posted. Any interested party having any objections may appear and be heard at the hearing, provided the objection is filed
in writing with the Tax Administrator prior to the time set for the hearing. At the time fixed for the hearing and for considering said assessment,
the Council shall hear the same together with any objection filed as aforesaid. The Council may thereupon confirm or modify said assessment by
motion of the Council. The assessment authorized under this Section is not a lien on real property nor shall it be enforced through a lien on real
property.

Section 3.05. Refunds.

(a) Whenever the amount of any Tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the Tax Administrator under this Ordinance, it may be refunded as provided in this Section.

(b)	A person required to collect and remit Taxes imposed under this Ordinance may claim a refund or take as credit against Taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established in a
manner prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from whom the Tax has been collected did not owe the Tax; provided, however, that
neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the Tax so collected has either been refunded to the person taxed or credited
to charges subsequently payable by the person taxed to the person required to collect and remit.

(c)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless the claimant establishes the right thereunto by written records
showing entitlement thereto. No refund shall be paid unless a claim therefore is made within one (1) year of the date of the accrual of the refund.

ARTICLE 4
PROCEDURES

Section 4.01. Power in Addition. The powers conferred by this Ordinance are in addition to, and the limitations imposed by this
Ordinance do not affect, the powers conferred by any other law or ordinance.

Section 4.02. Ordinance Controlling. If this Ordinance is inconsistent with any other law, this Ordinance is controlling.

Section 4.03. Liberal Construction. This Ordinance shall be liberally construed to promote its objects.

Section 4.04. Defect or Omission. Validity ot Proceedings or Taxes. If the jurisdiction of the Council to order the proposed act is
not affected, the defect or omission of any officer in proceedings under this Ordinance does not invalidate the proceedings or taxes levied under
this Ordinance.

Section 4.05. Severability. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance or any
part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance or
any part thereof.The City Council declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases is declared
unconstitutional.

ARTICLE 5

ELECTION

Section 5.01. Call of Election. A municipal election is hereby called and ordered to be held in the City on Tuesday, November 6,
2012, at which election there shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the City the proposition set forth below.

Section 5.02. Proposition. The proposition shall appear on the ballot for said municipal election in the following form:

“Measure to Extend Existing City of Vacaville Funding With No Tax Rate Increase. In order to continue funding for essential City
services, such as libraries, street/park maintenance, public safety, the Performing Arts Center, and local programs for persons of all
ages, including seniors and at-risk youth, shall City of Vacaville Ordinance No. 1843 be approved to continue the existing excise tax for
twenty-five years without increasing current tax rates and with all funds staying locally with the City of Vacaville?”

The Council does hereby submit to the qualified voters of the City, at said municipal election, this Ordinance and the proposition set forth above.

Section 5.03. Submission: Intent. The Council does hereby submit to the qualified voters of the City, at said municipal election, this
Ordinance and the proposition set forth in Section 5.03 hereof. The City intends to levy the excise tax for the objects and purposes set forth above
if a majority of all qualified voters voting on the proposition set forth above vote in favor thereof.

Section 5.04. Polls Open. The polls for said election shall be opened at seven o’clock A.M. of the day of said election and shall
remain open continuously from said time until eight o’clock P.M. of the same day, when said polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section
14401 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

Section 5.05. Consolidation With Statewide General Election. The municipal election hereby called for the date hereinbefore
specified shall be, and is hereby, ordered consolidated with the statewide general election to be held within the City on said date, and within the
territory affected by the consolidation, the election shall be held and conducted, election officers appointed, voting precincts designated, ballots
printed, polls opened and closed, ballots counted and returned, returns canvassed, results declared, and all other proceedings incidental to and
connected with the election shall be regulated and done in accordance with the provisions of law regulating the statewide general election and
specified herein. The Board of Supervisors of Solano County is hereby requested to order the consolidation of the municipal election hereby called
with said statewide general election, and the Board of Supervisors of the County of Solano is hereby authorized to canvass the returns of said
municipal election, and said election shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election and only one form of ballot shall be used. Said
Board of Supervisors shall certify the results of the canvass of the returns of said municipal election to the Council, which shall thereafter declare
the results thereof. The measure submitted by this Ordinance shall be designated on the ballot by a letter printed on the left margin of the square
containing the description of the measure, as provided in Section 13116 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

4 8 / 3 7

Solano 48 / 37

Section 5.06. Countv Registrar of Voters’ Services. The Board of Supervisors of Solano County is hereby requested to permit the
County Registrar of Voters to provide such services as may be necessary to properly and lawfully hold and conduct a municipal election in the
City on November 6,2012, including, but not limited to, consolidation of precincts; recruitment and appointment of election officers; establishment
of polling places; preparing and mailing notices of appointment; printing sample ballots, sample ballot envelopes, ballot measures, polling place
cards, ballot arguments and mailing to registered voters; the providing and printing of official ballots and polling cards; purchase election supplies,
including precinct and absent voter supplies, voting booths and flags; provide for absentee voting at the Office of Registrar of Voters, Election
Division; cartage of voting booths, ballots, ballot boxes and precinct supplies to precincts; supervision and conduct of election; provide registration
lists and any other materials and services that may be requested from time to time by the City Clerk or required to lawfully conduct the election in
accordance with the California Elections Code.

Section 5.07. Canvass of Returns. The County Registrar of Voters is hereby authorized to tabulate votes and canvass the returns of
the municipal election, which shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election. Only one form of ballot shall be used and the returns
of the election need not be canvassed by the Council. The canvass shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Division 15 (commencing
with Section 15000) of the California Elections Code. The County Clerk shall declare the results of the canvass of the returns of the municipal
election, based on the certified statement of results submitted by the County Registrar of Voters.

Section 5.08. Reimbursement. The City shall reimburse the County of Solano for services performed pursuant to this Ordinance
upon presentation of a bill to the City.

Section 5.09. Voting Qualifications. All persons qualified to vote at general municipal elections in the City upon the date of the
election herein provided for shall be qualified to vote upon the proposition submitted at said election.

Section 5.10. Ballots. Ballots for the election shall be provided in the form and in the number provided by law. On said ballots, in
addition to any other printed matter which may be required by law, two voting squares shall be set off to the right of the proposition submitted at
the election, in the manner provided by law, one having the word “YES” printed before it, and the other having the word “NO” printed before it.

Section 5.11. Method of Voting. Each voter to vote for the proposition shall stamp or write a cross, or indicate by hole punch or
other means, in the blank space opposite the word “YES” on the ballot to the right of the proposition; and each voter to vote against the proposition
shall stamp or write a cross, or indicate by hole punch or other means, in the blank space opposite the word “NO” on the ballot to the right of the
proposition.

Section 5.12. Compliance with Law. In all particulars not recited in this Ordinance, the election shall be held and conducted as
provided by law for holding municipal elections.

Section 5.13. City Clerk. The notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City Clerk is directed to give further
or additional notice of the election in the time, form and manner as required by law. The City Clerk is hereby directed to file with the Board of
Supervisors of Solano County and the County Registrar of Voters a certified copy of this Ordinance and to take all other actions necessary to
effectuate the directives of this Ordinance including, but not limited to, revising the language of the proposition set forth in Section 5.02 to ensure
that it complies with law. The City Clerk is directed to transmit to the City Attorney a copy of this Ordinance and the City Attorney is directed to
prepare an impartial analysis thereof consistent with applicable law.

ARTICLE 6
PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE

Section 6.01. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in accordance with the provisions of Government Code Section 36933.
The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to make such publication.

Section 6.02. Effective Date. Pursuant to Government Code Section 36937, this Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
its adoption by not less than a two-thirds vote of all members of this Council.

I HEREBY CERTIFY that this Ordinance was INTRODUCED at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Vacaville, held on
the 26®' day of June, 2012, and ADOPTED AND PASSED at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Vacaville, held on the 10th day of
July, 2012, by the following vote:

AYES:	Council	members	Harris,	Hunt,	Mashburn,	Vice-Mayor Rowlett and Mayor Hardy

NOES:	None

ABSENT: None

ATTEST:	APPROVED:

By:	-------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------

Michelle A.Thornbrugh, City Clerk	Stephen M. Hardy, Mayor

