

<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B-1

ANALYSIS BY THE COUNTY COUNSEL OF AN

ALAMEDA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION SALES TAX MEASURE

This measure seeks voter approval of an ordinance that provides for the following three
items: (1) an extension in perpetuity of the existing one-half of one percent (0.5%) transactions
and use tax for transportation purposes, currently set to expire in March of 2022; (2) an increase
to the transactions and use tax by one-half of one percent (0.5%) resulting in a total tax of one
percent (1%); and (3) the Alameda County Transportation Commission’s (“Commission”)
authority to issue limited tax bonds.

The Alameda County Congestion Management Agency and the Alameda County
Transportation Improvement Authority merged to create the Commission in July of 2010. The
Commission has the authority to increase the transactions and use tax upon approval by two-
thirds of the votes cast under the terms of the measure and California Public Utilities Code
section 180201.

The tax proceeds will only fund the projects and programs outlined in the Alameda
County 2012 Transportation Expenditure Plan (the “Plan”), which is printed in the sample ballot
pamphlet. According to the Plan, 48% of the tax proceeds will fund public and specialized
transit; 30% of the tax proceeds will fund improvements to local streets and roads; 9% of the tax
proceeds will be spent on highway efficiency and freight development; 8% of the tax proceeds
will be used for bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure; and 5% of the tax proceeds will fund
sustainable land use and transportation projects. The Plan will undergo comprehensive
updates at least once before the general election of November 2042 and at least once every 20
years thereafter. The Plan requires voter approval of the comprehensive updates.

Under the measure’s terms, the administrative costs shall not exceed 4% of the tax
proceeds. The salaries and benefits of administrative staff shall not exceed 1 % of the tax
proceeds. The tax proceeds may only fund transportation improvements benefiting Alameda
County.

The measure also authorizes the Commission to issue limited tax bonds to finance the
Plan’s projects. The Commission shall not have outstanding at any one time limited tax bonds
in excess of one billion dollars.

The measure creates the Independent Watchdog Committee (“Committee”). The
Committee will review and oversee all expenditures of the tax proceeds and report directly to
the public. The Committee’s annual report will include information on spending and the
progress made in implementing the Plan. The expenditures are also subject to annual
independent audits.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the Commission will not be authorized to extend and increase the tax
outlined above. <impartialend>




<impartialsigs> DONNA R. ZIEGLER
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>





<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B1

Measure B1 was first approved by Alameda County voters in 1986 and provides funds
for critically needed transportation projects in Alameda County to reduce traffic
congestion and improve public transportation. These projects include road maintenance
and safety projects, earthquake safety retrofits for overpasses, bridges and elevated
freeways, improvements to BART and AC Transit and insures that transit fares are kept
affordable for seniors, disabled and youth.

Alameda County residents need reliable and efficient transportation options for a better
quality of life, stronger economy, and cleaner environment. The continuation and
extension of this measure will allow critical transportation projects to move ahead
uninterrupted.

Measure B1 is a comprehensive plan to address critical transportation needs in every
community in Alameda County. It will provide funds to maintain our roads and transit
systems, improve traffic flow and highway safety, ensure public transportation is
available and affordable to everyone, and make it safer and easier to bike and walk
throughout the county.

Passage of Measure B1 will also help Alameda County qualify for state and federal
matching transportation grants. Every penny raised by Measure B1 stays in Alameda
County to improve transportation systems. It will support our local economy by creating
thousands of much-needed local jobs.

A public oversight committee will ensure all funding is spent according to the plan.
Measure B1 is a secure, local, and reliable source of funds for critical transportation
projects in our community. No money can be taken away by the state or used for other
purposes.

You can read more about the plan at www.YesonBl .com.

Every city in Alameda County has voted in support of this plan. Please join us in voting
YES on Measure B1 and continue critical transportation funding for Alameda County.




<favorsigs> 1.	Assembly Member Robert A. Wieckowski

Member, Assembly Committee on Job Creation for the New Economy

2.	Supervisor Scott Haggerty

Commissioner, Metropolitan Transportation Commission

3.	Supervisor Nate Miley
Alameda County Supervisor

4.	Sheila Jordan

Superintendent, Alameda County Office of Education

5.	Arthur L. Dao

Executive Director, Alameda County Transportation Commission <favorsigsend>




<against>

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan Sales Tax

This measure increases taxes on all income levels. It puts control of transportation decisions in the
hands of Alameda County Transportation Commission (ACTC) who will use their taxing authority and
resources to fund inefficient, expensive, and underutilized public transportation systems at the expense
of automobile drivers.

Car use under this plan will be discouraged because it competes with public transportation. Increasing
the costs of driving is intended to reduce the number of people who can afford to own and drive a car,
forcing many to use public transportation.

ACTC will have the power to force citizens to assume responsibility for up to $1B in bond debt which will
ultimately lead to requests for higher sales taxes and parcel taxes. Many residents would pay more than
a 10% sales tax on everything they buy, a percentage that will only increase over time.

Cities are being coerced into developing high density housing in mixed use developments near transit
centers. Cities that do not comply could lose Measure B dollars yet their citizens will still be paying the
sales tax.

"These proposed funds would be distributed periodically by the Alameda CTC to eligible agencies within
Alameda County" 2012 Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

Who are these agencies? Why should ATC be given a blank check written at taxpayer expense to
disburse funds to undetermined "agencies"

The Alameda County GRAND JURY just cited the county for "lack of oversight on the expenditure of
funds" (CC Times, June 27, 2012)

How can citizens trust that funds will be spent wisely? Vote NO <againstend>






<againstsigs> Argument Against Measure B1
Signers

1.	Estes Albert Phillips

2.	Christopher J. Pareja

3.	Mary B. Steel

President SF Bay CAPR <againstsigsend>




<rebutagainst> Rebuttal To Argument Against Measure B1

The opponents of Measure B1 are members of an ultra conservative fringe group who
either make up facts or are misinformed.

Here are the facts.

Measure B has been in effect for 26 years. Measure B funds support projects throughout
Alameda County including improvements to ALL transportation systems, roads, street
repairs, BART, local bus systems (including AC Transit) and earthquake safety repairs of
old overpasses and bridges.

Most importantly Measure B1 provides funding so that transit fares for seniors and the
disabled are kept affordable and that students are provided low cost transit passes to get
to school.

Every single city in Alameda County has voted to support this plan. In fact, every city
participated in the development of the plan to identify critical projects important to each
local community. Measure B1 will address the continuing transportation needs of
Alameda County residents and businesses including reducing traffic congestion and
improving air quality.

Measure B1 keeps our sales tax dollars in Alameda County. No money can be taken by
the state or used for other purposes. An independent oversight committee has been
established to provide audits and to ensure all funds are spent properly.

A YES vote on Measure B1 will fund critical local projects like road repair, BART
improvements, passenger rail improvements and Safe Routes for Schools. It will support
our local economy by creating thousands of much-needed jobs right here in Alameda
County.

Please vote Yes on B1 to keep our sales tax dollars in Alameda County. <rebutagainstend>





<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR MEASURE B1

These are NOT New Plans: They are already in MTC, OneBayArea and other Regional Plans

for Alameda County, Including many "EXTENSIVE NEW BIKE LANES".

Proponents neglected to say;

•	B 1 DOUBLES the existing Sales Tax.

•	Adds $1.000.000.000 (Billion) in Revolving Bond Debts

(Reauthorized "forever" when spent down - NO Limit).

•	Adds a new "Storage" Tax (Hitting employers and individuals who store goods for sale)

•	ALL NEW TAXES are "FOREVER TAXES" (Deliberately set without a "sunset clause").

A MASSIVE TAX INCREASE: Disproportionately harming working families.

(A greater percentage of their income goes to sales taxes.)

Flawed public policy. Developers get rich on the backs of ordinary people by building lucrative
apartment buildings. These trap lower-income residents into poverty cycles with jobs limited to those
accessible by public transit. Our children get trapped in low-performing or failing public schools.

•	Adding massive new taxes to struggling small businesses, lower-income and middle classes.

•	HARMS OUR DEPRESSED ECONOMY AND DRIVES MORE EMPLOYERS OUT OF ALAMEDA COUNTY.

Limiting Our Mobility:

(low-income today: How most Americans start out and very often escape)

•	It will be harder for many of us and our children to get ahead.

Access to higher-paying jobs and benefits will be blocked. (Brookings Institute.)

IN AMERICA - ESCAPING POVERTY IS POSSIBLE - MeasureB1 blocks that ability.

•	Middle-class families also set back:

FORCED INTO PUBLIC TANSIT ONLY - CAREER and SCHOOL OPTIONS are SHUT DOWN.

DON'T PAY MORE TO HAVE YOUR OPTIONS REDUCED
Measure B 1 is coming to your town
VOTE NO TO STOP IT

www.VoteNoMeasureBl.com <rebutfavorend>




<rebutagainstsigs> Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure B1
Signers

1.	Scott Haggerty
Alameda County Supervisor

2.	Sheila Jordan

Alameda County Superintendent of Schools

3.	Nate Miley
County Supervisor

4.	Bob Wieckowski
Assembly Member

5.	Arthur L. Dao
Executive Director <rebutagainstsigsend>





<rebutfavorsigs> Rebuttal to Argument In Favor Measure B1
Signers

1.	Al Phillips

Candidate Assembly District 16

2.	Christopher J. Pareja

Business Owner and June 2012 Independent Candidate

3.	Mimi Steel

SF Bay CAPR, President <rebutfavorsigsend>




<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE____

ORDINANCE NO. 2012-1

AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR AN EXTENSION OF AN EXISTING ONE-HALF
OF ONE PERCENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX BEYOND MARCH 31, 2022,
AND IMPOSITION OF AN ADDITIONAL ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT

TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
FOR TRANSPORTATION PURPOSES,

FOR THE ISSUANCE OF LIMITED TAX BONDS,

AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

The Governing Body of the Alameda County Transportation Commission (“Alameda
CTC”) does ordain as follows:

ARTICLE I
General

Section 1. Title

This ordinance shall be known as the “Alameda County Transportation Commission
Transaction and Use Tax Ordinance” and may also be referenced as the “Ordinance” herein.
This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County
of Alameda.

Section 2. Period of Tax

This Ordinance is intended to extend the imposition and collection in Alameda County of
an existing one-half of one percent transactions and use tax for transportation purposes, which
will expire as of March 31, 2022, and impose an additional transaction and use tax by one-half of
one percent, resulting in a total tax of one percent without any sunset, unless otherwise
terminated by the voters of Alameda County. The additional one-half of one percent tax
authorized by this ordinance shall be imposed beginning at the close of polls on the day of the
election at which the measure is adopted by two-thirds vote of the electors voting on the measure
or as soon thereafter as the tax may be lawfully imposed.

Section 3. Purpose

Alameda CTC is the result of a merger of the Alameda County Transportation
Improvement Authority, which formerly administered the existing half-cent transaction and use
tax, and the Alameda County Congestion Management Agency, which was formerly responsible
for long-range planning and programming of transportation funds. Pursuant to Division 19 of
the Public Utilities Code (commencing with Section 180000), Alameda CTC, the Board of
Supervisors and the cities of Alameda, Albany, Berkeley, Dublin, Emeryville, Fremont,
Hayward, Livermore, Newark, Oakland, Piedmont, Pleasanton, San Leandro and Union City

1

have approved the 2012 Transportation Expenditure Plan adopted by the Alameda CTC
Governing Body and have recommended that a measure be submitted to the voters of the County
for their endorsement which would, if passed, authorize Alameda CTC to extend an existing one-
half of one percent transactions and use tax scheduled to sunset in 2022 and increase the tax by
one-half of one percent without sunset, unless otherwise terminated by the voters of Alameda
County, and authorize Alameda CTC to issue limited tax bonds to finance the transportation
improvements set forth in the 2012 Transportation Expenditure Plan.

The purposes of this ordinance are as follows:

a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part
1.6 (commencing with Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code and Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code which directs the County Board
of Supervisors to place the tax ordinance on the ballot for voter approval, exercising the taxing
power granted to the Alameda CTC pursuant to Public Utilities Code Division 19.

b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides
a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

e)	To improve, construct, maintain, and operate certain transportation projects and
facilities contained in the 2012 Transportation Expenditure Plan, which Plan is incorporated here
by this reference as though fully set forth herein, and as that Plan may be amended from time to
time pursuant to applicable law and as provided in the 2012 Transportation Expenditure Plan.
Any amendment must be adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Alameda CTC Governing Body.
All jurisdictions within the county will be given a minimum of 45 days to comment on any
proposed Transportation Expenditure Plan amendment.

f)	To set a term for an unlimited period, unless otherwise terminated by the voters of
Alameda County, during which time this tax shall be imposed pursuant to the authority granted
by Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code.

g)	To provide for the ability of Alameda County voters to directly endorse
comprehensive updates to the 2012 Transportation Expenditure Plan no later than the last general
election date prior to June 2042 and then every twenty years thereafter, as specified in the 2012

Transportation Expenditure Plan. The Alameda CTC Governing Body will engage in an
inclusionary deliberative process to adopt any comprehensive updates, and require a two-thirds
vote of the Alameda CTC Governing Body for recommended adoption. The comprehensive
update will be then be reviewed by the fourteen Alameda County cities and the County of
Alameda, and Alameda CTC shall thereafter place a ballot measure on a general election ballot
offering the comprehensive update for approval by a majority vote of the people. If the voters do
not approve the comprehensive update, Alameda CTC shall prepare a revised comprehensive
update under the inclusionary deliberative process described above and submit it to the voters as
soon as practicable. The tax shall continue to be imposed and Alameda CTC may continue to
make expenditures pursuant to the then existing Transportation Expenditure Plan, but may not
add new projects or programs through the amendment process until a revised comprehensive
update is approved by the voters of Alameda County by majority vote.

Section 4. Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, Alameda CTC shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided that, if Alameda CTC shall not have contracted with
the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract.

Section 5. Transactions Tax Rate of An Additional One-Half Percent and Extension of the
Existing Tax Rate of One-Half Percent.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in this County at the rate of an additional one-half of one percent, which tax
shall be imposed concurrently with the existing one-half percent tax, of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in this County on and after the
operative date. This tax shall be imposed for an unlimited period, unless otherwise terminated
by the voters of Alameda County, as described in Section 2 herein. The existing one-half percent
transactions tax originally imposed by the Alameda County Transportation Authority (“ACTIA”)
and now administered by Alameda CTC shall be extended and shall be imposed for an unlimited
period, unless otherwise terminated by the voters of Alameda County, as described in Section 2
herein.

Section 6. Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.


Section 7. Use Tax Rate of An Additional One-Half Percent and Extension of the Current
Use Tax Rate of One-Half Percent.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in this County
of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative tax date for
storage, use or other consumption in this County at the rate of an additional one-half of one
percent, which tax shall be imposed concurrently with the existing one-half percent tax. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. This tax shall be imposed for an unlimited
period, unless otherwise terminated by the voters of Alameda County, as described in Section 2
herein. The existing one-half percent use tax originally imposed by ACTIA and now
administered by Alameda CTC shall be extended and shall be imposed for an unlimited period,
unless otherwise terminated by the voters of Alameda County, as described in Section 2 herein.

Section 8. Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code (commencing
with Section 6001), all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a) Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of Alameda CTC shall be substituted therefor. The substitution, however, shall not be
made when:

(i)	The word State is used as part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

(ii)	The substitution would require action to be taken by or against Alameda
CTC or any agency, officer or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance;

(iii)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

(1) Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by
the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(2) Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

(iv)	In sections 6701, 6702, (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(a) The name of the County shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

Section 10. Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. Exemptions, Exclusions and Credits.

a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside Alameda County and directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2)	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a point
outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the County shall be satisfied:

(i) with respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840 of the
Vehicle Code, by registration to an out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

(ii) with respect to commercial vehicles by registration to a place of
business out-of-county, and a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.


3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance the storage, use or
other consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products, purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), storage, use or other consumption,
or possession, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within the County
in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the County or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority
of the retailer.


7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the County” shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the County.

d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. Propositions.

There shall be proposed to the voters of Alameda County the following proposition:

“Shall a new Transportation Expenditure Plan be implemented to address current and future
transportation needs that:

•	Improves transit access to jobs and schools;

•	Fixes roads, improves highways and increases bicycle and pedestrian safety;

•	Reduces traffic congestion and improves air quality;

•	Keeps senior, youth, and disabled fares affordable

Approval extends the existing County sales tax and increases it by 1/2 cent, with independent
oversight, local job creation programs. No money can be taken by the state.”

Section 13.Limitation on Issuance of Bonds.

Unless approved by the Alameda CTC Governing Body and by the voters, Alameda CTC
shall not have outstanding at any one time in excess of $1,000,000,000 in limited tax bonds.

Section 14. Use of Proceeds.

The proceeds of the additional one-half of one percent transaction and use tax imposed by
this ordinance, and the proceeds from the extension of the existing one-half of one percent
transaction and use tax authorized by this ordinance beyond March 31, 2022, shall together be
used solely for the projects and purposes set forth in the 2012 Transportation Expenditure Plan,
as it may be amended from time to time, and for the administration thereof.

Section 15. Appropriations Limit.

For purposes of Article XIIIB of the State Constitution, the appropriations limit for
Alameda CTC for fiscal year 2012-2013, including activities, projects and programs funded by
the transaction and tax authorized hereby along with activities, projects and programs funded by
other local, state and federal funds, shall be $800,000,000, and thereafter that amount should be
amended pursuant to applicable law.

Section 16. Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part I of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 17. Enjoining Collection Forbidden

Any action or proceedings in any court questioning the validity of the adoption of this
transactions and use tax ordinance or issuance of any bonds thereunder or any proceeding related
thereto shall commence within six months from the date of the election at which this ordinance is
approved. Otherwise, the bonds and all proceedings related thereto, including the adoption and
approval of this ordinance, shall be held valid and in every respect legal and incontestable.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or Alameda CTC, or against any officer
of the State or Alameda CTC, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected.

Section 18. Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 19. Effective Date.

This ordinance relates, in substantial part, to the continuation and expansion of the authority for
Alameda CTC to levy and collect the transactions and use taxes to support the 2012
Transportation Expenditure Plan and shall take effect at the close of the polls on the day of
election at which the proposition is adopted by two-thirds vote of the electors voting on the
measure, or as soon thereafter as the tax may be lawfully imposed.


PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Members of the Alameda County Transportation
Commission on May 24, 2012 by the following vote*:

AYES: 23 (Harper, Haggerty, Piexoto, Gregory, Miley, Carson, Blalock, Bonta,

Javandel, Capitelli, Atkin, Chan, Henson, Marchand, Freitas, Kaplan,

Chiang, Hosterman, Starosciak, Green)

NOES: 0

EXCUSED: 4 (Sbranti, Reid)

*Votes	are weighted pursuant to the joint powers agreement which created Alameda

ATTEST: Vanessa Lee, Clerk
of Alameda CTC <resolutionend>






<summary> BACKGROUND
AND SUMMARY

FULFILLING THE PROMISE TO VOTERS * •

In November 2000, Alameda County voters approved
Measure B, a half-cent local transportation sales tax,
scheduled to sunset in 2022. Virtually all of the major
projects promised to and approved by the voters in
that measure are either underway or complete. Funds
that go to cities and other local jurisdictions to
maintain and improve local streets, provide critical
transit service and services for seniors and persons
with disabilities, as well as bicycle and pedestrian
safety projects will continue until the current
Measure B expenditure plan ends in 2022. Through
careful management, leveraging of other funding
opportunities and consensus-based planning, the
promises of the 2000 voter-approved measure have
been largely fulfilled and essential operations are on-
going.

While most of the projects promised in Measure B
have been implemented or are underway, the need to
continue to maintain and improve the County's
transportation system remains critically important.
Alameda County continues to grow, while funding
from outside sources has been cut or has not kept
pace. Unless the County acts now to increase local
resources for transportation, by 2035, when Alameda
County's population is expected to be 24% higher
than today, it is anticipated that vehicle miles
traveled will increase by 40%:

•	Average morning rush hour speeds on the
county's freeways will fall by 10%

•	Local roads will continue to deteriorate

•	Local transit systems will continue to face service
cuts and fare increase, and

•	Biking and walking routes, which are critical to
almost every trip, will continue to deteriorate,
impacting safety, public health and the
environment.

This Alameda County Transportation Expenditure
Plan (referred to throughout this document as the
TEP or the plan) responds to the county's continued
transportation needs through the extension and

augmentation of a consistent, locally generated and
protected funding stream to address the County's
transportation needs. A key feature of the local
transportation sales tax is that it cannot be used for
any purpose other than local transportation needs. It
cannot be taken by the State or by any other
governmental agency under any circumstance, and
over the life of this plan can only be used for the
purposes described in the plan, or as amended.

The ballot measure supported by this plan augments
and extends the existing half-cent sales tax for
transportation in Alameda County known as
Measure B, authorizing an additional half-cent sales
tax through 2022 and extending the full cent in
perpetuity. Recognizing that transportation needs,
technology, and circumstances change over time, this
expenditure plan covers the period from approval in
2012 for an unlimited period unless otherwise
terminated by the voters, programming a total of $7.7
billion in new transportation funding in the first
thirty years. Voters will have the opportunity to
review and approve comprehensive updates to this
plan at least once prior to the end of 2042 and every
20 years thereafter.

The expenditure plan funds critical improvements to
the county's transit network, including expanding
transit operations and restoring service cuts and
expanding the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART)
system within Alameda County, to move more
people on transit. It expands transportation services
for seniors and people with disabilities, responding to
the needs of an aging population. The plan also funds
projects to relieve congestion throughout the county,
moving people and goods more efficiently, by
supporting strategic investments on 1-80,1-580,1-680,
1-880, and State Routes 84 and 262. In addition, the
plan recognizes growth in bicycle and pedestrian
travel by completing major trails and bikeways and
making substantial improvements in pedestrian
safety and access.

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

1-1

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

STATUS OF THE CURRENT MEASURE B
EXPENDITURE PLAN

Voters in Alameda County have long recognized the
need to provide stable and local funding for the
County's transportation needs. In 1986, Alameda
County voters authorized a half-cent transportation
sales tax to finance improvements to the county's
overburdened transportation infrastructure. An even
wider margin of voters reauthorized this tax in 2000,
with over 81.5% support. Detailed expenditure plans
have guided the use of these funds. The current plan
provides over $100 million each year for essential
operations, maintenance and construction of
transportation projects. It authorized the expenditure
of funds for the extension of BART to Warm Springs,
transit operations, rapid bus improvements
throughout the county, bicycle and pedestrian trails
and bridges, a county wide Safe Routes to School
Program, and specialized transportation services for
seniors and people with disabilities. It has also
provided congestion relief throughout Alameda
County by widening 1-238, constructing the 1-680
express lane, improving 1-580 and 1-880, and
upgrading surface streets and arterial roadways.

Most of the 27 major projects authorized by the
current expenditure plan have been completed or are
under construction, many ahead of schedule. Annual
audits by independent certified public accountants
have verified that 100% of the public funds
authorized in the current plan have been spent as
promised.

The current projects and programs are governed by
the current Measure B Expenditure Plan.

BENEFITS FROM THE CURRENT
MEASURE B EXPENDITURE PLAN

The current local transportation sales tax has
provided a substantial share of the total funding
available for transportation projects in Alameda
County, far exceeding annual state and federal
commitments. State and federal sources have
diminished over time, and local sources have come to
represent over 60% of the money available for
transportation in the county. The current measure has
been indispensible in helping to meet the county's
growing needs in an era of shrinking resources.

The county's ability to keep up with street
maintenance needs, such as filling potholes and
repaving roadways, is fundamentally dependent on
these local funds. Targeted improvements funded

through the current expenditure plan such as the new
express lane on 1-680 and the widening of 1-238 have
relieved congestion on critical county commute
corridors. A new Warm Springs BART station will
soon open in the southern part of the county as the
beginning of a new connection to Silicon Valley. The
current plan has supported transit operations,
improved the safety of children getting to schools
throughout the county and funded special
transportation services that provide over 900,000 trips
for seniors and people with disabilities every year.

These local funds have also allowed the county to
compete effectively for outside funds by providing
local matching money. The existing expenditure plan
has attracted supplemental funds of over $3 billion
from outside sources for Alameda County
transportation investments.

WHY EXTEND AND AUGMENT THE SALES
TAX MEASURE NOW? •

While the existing measure will remain intact
through 2022, the 2012 Alameda County
Transportation Expenditure Plan (TEP) has been
developed for three reasons:

•	The capital projects in the existing measure have
been largely completed, with many projects
implemented ahead of schedule. Virtually all of
the project funds in the existing measure are
committed to these current projects. Without a
new plan, the County will be unable to fund any
new major projects to address pressing mobility
needs.

•	Due to the economic recession, all sources of
transportation funding have declined. The
decline in revenues has had a particularly
significant impact on transportation services that
depend on annual sales tax revenue distributions
for their ongoing operations. The greatest
impacts have been to the programs that are most
important to Alameda County residents:

o Reductions in local funding to transit

operators, combined with state and federal
reductions, have resulted in higher fares and
less service.

o Reductions in local funding to programs for
seniors and persons with disabilities have
resulted in cuts in these programs as the
populations depending on them continue to
increase.

1-2

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

o Local road maintenance programs have been
cut, and road conditions have deteriorated
for all types of users.

o Bicycle and pedestrian system improvements
and maintenance of pathways have
continued to deteriorate, making it more
difficult to walk and bike as an alternative to
driving.

• Since the recession began, bus services in

Alameda County have been cut significantly, and
the gap between road maintenance needs and
available funding is at an all-time high. This new
expenditure plan will allow local funding to fill
in the gaps created by declining state and federal
revenue and will keep needed services in place
and restore service cuts for many providers.

HOW THIS PLAN WAS DEVELOPED

This expenditure plan was developed in conjunction
with the Alameda County wide Transportation Plan
(CWTP), the long range policy document that guides
transportation investments, programs, policies and
advocacy for Alameda County through 2040. A
Steering Committee and two working groups
(technical and community) were established to guide
development of both the CWTP and the TEP over the
past two years.

Public engagement and transparency were the
foundations of the development of these plans. A
wide variety of stakeholders, including businesses,
technical experts, environmental and social justice
organizations, seniors and people with disabilities,
helped shape the plan to ensure that it serves the
county's diverse transportation needs. Thousands of
Alameda County residents participated through
public workshops and facilitated small group
dialogues; a website allowed for online
questionnaires, access to all project information, and
submittal of comments; and advisory committees that
represent diverse constituencies were integrally
involved in the plan development process from the
beginning.

The TEP also benefited from a performance-based
project evaluation process undertaken for the CWTP.
This allowed policies and goals to be expressed in
quantifiable terms and competing transportation
investments to be compared to one another
objectively. This led to a more systematic and
analytical selection process for investment priorities.

City councils in the county and the County Board of
Supervisors each held public meetings and voted to
approve this expenditure plan and recommended
submission of the sales tax measure to the voters.

VISION AND GOALS

The development of the County wide Transportation
Plan and the Transportation Expenditure Plan began
with establishing a new vision and goals for the
county's transportation system:

Alameda County will be served by a premier
transportation system that supports a vibrant and
livable Alameda County through a connected and
integrated multimodal transportation system
promoting sustainability, access, transit operations,
public health and economic opportunities.

The vision recognizes the need to maintain and
operate the County's existing transportation
infrastructure and services while developing new
investments that are targeted, effective, financially
sound and supported by appropriate land uses.
Mobility in Alameda County will be guided by
transparent decision-making and measureable
performance indicators, and will be supported by
these goals:

Our transportation system will be:

•	Multimodal (bus, train, ferry, bicycle, walking
and driving)

•	Accessible, affordable and equitable for people of
all ages, incomes, abilities and geographies

•	Integrated with land use patterns and local
decision-making

•	Connected across the county, within and across
the network of streets, highways, transit, bicycle
and pedestrian routes

•	Reliable and efficient

•	Cost effective

•	Well maintained

•	Safe

•	Supportive of a healthy and clean environment
TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS

The commitments in this expenditure plan are
underscored by a set of strong taxpayer safeguards to
ensure that they are met. These include an annual

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

1-3

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

independent audit and report to the taxpayers;
ongoing monitoring and review by an Independent
Watchdog Committee; requirement for full public
review and periodic voter approval for a
comprehensive update to the expenditure plan at
least once prior to the end of 2042 and every 20 years
thereafter; and strict limits on administrative
expenses charged to these funds.

Local Funds Spent Locally

The revenue generated through this transportation
sales tax will be spent exclusively on projects and
programs in Alameda County. All of the projects and
programs included in the expenditure plan are
considered essential for the transportation needs of
Alameda County.

1-4

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

WHAT DOES THE EXPENDITURE PLAN FUND?

Table 1 Summary of Investments by Mode Mode	Funds Allocated1
Transit & Specialized Transit (48%)	$3,732
Mass Transit: Operations, Access to Schools, Maintenance, and Safety Program	$1,857
Specialized Transit For Seniors and Persons with Disabilities	$774
Bus Transit Efficiency and Priority	$35
BART System Modernization and Expansion  Regional Rail Enhancements and High Speed Rail Connections	$710  $355
Local Streets & Roads (30%)  Major Commute Corridors, Local Bridge Seismic Safety Freight Corridors of Countywide Significance Local Streets and Roads Program	$2,348  $639  $161  $1,548
Highway Efficiency & Freight (9%)	$677
Highway/Efficiency and Gap Closure Projects Freight & Economic Development Program	$600  $77
Bicycle and Pedestrian Infrastructure and Safety (8%)	$651
Sustainable Land Use & Transportation Linkages (4%)	$300
Priority Development Area (PDA) / Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Infrastructure Investments	$300
Technology, Innovation, and Development (1%)	$77
TOTAL NEW NET FUNDING (2013-42)	$7,786

1 Dollar figures for programs receiving a percentage of net funds throughout the TEP are based on the $7.7 billion
estimate of total net tax receipts over the initial thirty years of the TEP in escalated dollars.

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

1-5

This Transportation Expenditure Plan describes a
program anticipated to generate $7.7 billion in the
first 30 years designed to sustainably, reliably and
effectively move people and goods within the county
and to connect Alameda County with the rest of the
Bay Area. The projects and programs that follow
describe the plan for investments between the
approval of the tax in 2012 and its subsequent
collections pursuant to comprehensive updates, at
least once before the end of 2042 and every 20 years
thereafter. These improvements are necessary to
address current and projected transportation needs in
Alameda County, current legislative mandates, and
reflect the best efforts to achieve consensus among
varied interests and communities in Alameda
County.

The linkage between sustainable transportation and
development has never been clearer. Recent
legislation, including SB 375, requires transportation
planning agencies to focus on connecting
transportation with development policies to ensure
that communities develop in a way that supports
biking, walking and transit while maximizing
accessibility for all modes. Transportation planning
must also find ways to reduce the number of miles
driven, reducing the production of greenhouse gases.

The projects and programs in this plan are designed
to strengthen the economy and improve quality of
life in Alameda County, and reduce traffic
congestion. They include maintenance of existing
infrastructure, targeted investments to improve
highway safety, remove bottlenecks on major
commute corridors, enhance rail, bus and ferry transit
systems, and make it safer and easier to bike and
walk throughout the county.

Two types of investments are funded in this plan:
capital investments which are allocated specific dollar
amounts in the plan, and programmatic investments
which are allocated a percentage of net revenues to be
distributed to program recipients on a monthly or
periodic basis. Capital investments will be made
based upon clearly defined project descriptions and
limits resulting from the outcomes of environmental

analyses, as applicable. Examples of programmatic
investments include local road maintenance and
transit operations which provide funds to local
jurisdictions to complete on-going operations and
maintenance tasks. The following summarizes total
expenditures by mode including both capital and
programmatic investments.

PUBLIC TRANSIT AND SPECIALIZED
TRANSIT (48%)

Increasing the number of people that can be served
by high capacity public transit is critical to all
residents of Alameda County to provide
transportation choices, relieve congestion and
support a vibrant economy. The investments
identified for public transit in this plan were guided
by the principles of enhancing safety, convenience
and reliability to maximize the number of people
who can make use of the transit system. By more than
doubling the amount of local sales tax funds available
to transit operations and maintenance, this plan
represents a major investment in Alameda County's
transit system to increase transit services and expand
access to transit throughout the County, and to help
avoid further service cuts and preserve affordability
of transit.

LOCAL STREETS AND ROADS (30%)

Local streets and roads are the essential building
blocks of Alameda County's transportation system.
Virtually every trip begins or ends on a local road.
Alameda County has more than 3,400 road miles of
aging streets and roads, many of which are in need of
repair: intersections need to be reconfigured, traffic
lights need to be synchronized and potholes need to
be filled. Most important, these roads are essential to
every mode of transportation from cars and trucks, to
buses, bikes and pedestrians.

HIGHWAY EFFICIENCY, FREIGHT AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (9%)

Aging highway systems continue to operate under
substantial pressure as travel patterns become more

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

2-1

TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS

diverse and the demands of moving goods and
people increases. While the era of major highway
construction has come to an end in the Bay Area,
there are many opportunities to increase the safety,
efficiency and productivity of highway corridors in
Alameda County. The highway investments included
in this plan focus on improving safety, relieving
bottlenecks at interchanges, closing gaps and
improving efficiency with carpool and high
occupancy vehicle infrastructure, and increasing
safety on major truck route corridors.

In addition to focusing on making highways more
efficient, this plan recognizes the need to move goods
safely and effectively. Recognizing the economic
importance of the Port of Oakland, highways must
provide connections between goods and market, and
do so with minimal impacts on our residential
neighborhoods.

BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE (8%)

Virtually every trip begins or ends on foot. Alameda
County's bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure is the
"glue" that holds the network together by extending
the reach of transit service, providing a non-polluting
and sustainable travel mode, and contributing to
public health and quality of life. A particular focus is
on the County's youth to encourage adoption of safe
and healthy habits through Safe Routes to Schools.

SUSTAINABLE LAND USE AND
TRANSPORTATION (4%) AND
TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION (1%)

Transportation and land use linkages are
strengthened when development focuses on bringing
together mobility choices, housing and jobs. This plan
includes investments in every part of the County,
enhancing areas around BART stations and bus
transfer hubs that are slated for new development,
and supporting communities where biking, walking
and transit riding are all desirable options. In
addition, a Technology, Innovation and Development
Program will support technological advances in
transportation management and information.

The map on the follow page shows the investments
planned for all modes and in all parts of the County.

2-2

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS

PUBLIC TRANSIT AND
SPECIALIZED TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

A total of 48% of net
revenue from this tax
will be dedicated to
public transit
systems. Funds for
operations and
maintenance will be
provided to bus transit operators
in the county (AC Transit, BART,
Union City Transit and Livermore
Amador Valley Transit Authority) as
well as to ferries and the ACE
commuter rail system. In addition,
these funds will substantially
increase Alameda County’s
commitment to the growing
transportation needs of older
adults and persons with
disabilities, essentially doubling
the funds available for targeted
services for this important group.
Grant funds are also available to
support transportation access to
schools. Major capital investments
include upgrades to the existing
BART system and a BART extension in
the eastern part of the County,
adding bus rapid transit routes to
improve the utility and efficiency
of transit, and providing funding
for transit improvements across the
Dumbarton Bridge.

TRANSIT OPERATIONS, MAINTENANCE,
AND SAFETY PROGRAM (24% OF NET
REVENUE, $1,857 M)

This proposed program provides transit operators
with a consistent funding source for maintaining,
restoring and improving transit services in Alameda
County. Transit operators will allocate these funds in
consultation with their riders and policy makers with
the goal of creating a world class transit system that
is an efficient, effective, safe and affordable
alternative to driving.

The proposed Transit Operations program has the
following primary components.

Mass Transit Pass-Through Program
(21.55% of net revenue, estimated at
$1,668 M)

Pass-through funds are disbursed to AC Transit,
BART, the Altamont Commuter Express (ACE) rail
service, the Water Emergency Transportation
Authority (WETA), the Livermore Amador Valley
Transit Authority (LAVTA) and Union City Transit.
The relative percentage of net revenue being passed
through to these agencies is as follows:

% of

Net	Total 2012-

Total	2042 (est.)

Agency	Revenue	$Millions

AC Transit	18.8%	$1,455
ACE	1.0%	$77
BART	0.5%	$39
Maintenance		
WETA (ferries)	0.5%	$39
LAVTA (WHEELS)	0.5%	$39
Union City	0.25%	$19
Transit		
Total Transit Operations	21.55%	$1,668

Access to School Program ($15
million)

This program is for the purposes of funding one or
more models for a student transit pass program. The
program would be designed to account for
geographic differences within the county. Successful
models determined through periodic reviews will
have the first call for funding within the innovative
grant program, as described below.

Innovative Grant Program including
successful student transportation
programs (2.24% of net revenue,
estimated at $175 M)

These grant funds, administered by the Alameda
CTC, will be used for the purposes of funding
innovative and emerging transit projects, including
implementing successful models aimed at increasing
the use of transit among junior high and high school
students, including a transit pass program for
students in Alameda County. Successful models will
receive the first priority for funding from this
category.

Funds will be periodically distributed, based upon
Alameda CTC action, for projects and programs with
proven ability to accomplish the goals listed below:

2-4

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

PUBLIC TRANSIT AND
SPECIALIZED TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

•	Increase the use of public transit by youth riders
(first priority for funding) and increase youth
access to school

•	Enhance the quality of service for transit riders

•	Reduce costs or improve operating efficiency

•	Increase transit ridership by improving the rider
experience

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

2-5

PUBLIC TRANSIT AND SPECIALIZED TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

•	Enhance rider safety and security

•	Enhance rider information and education about
transit options

•	Enhance affordability for transit riders

•	Implement recommendations for transit service
improvements from Community Based
Transportation Plans

These funds will be distributed periodically by the
Alameda CTC. Grant awards will emphasize
demonstrations or pilot projects which can leverage
other funds.

SPECIALIZED TRANSIT FOR SENIORS
AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
(10% OF NET REVENUE, $774 M) * •

This program provides funds for local solutions to
the growing transportation needs of older adults and
persons with disabilities. Funds will be provided to
transit operators to operate specialized transportation
service mandated by the Americans with Disabilities
Act. In addition, funds will be provided to each part
of the County based on their population of residents
over age 70 for local programs aimed at improving
mobility for seniors and persons with disabilities. The
program includes three components.

Pass-through funding for East Bay
Paratransit Consortium (6% of net
revenue, estimated at $464 M)

This funding will assist the East Bay Paratransit
Consortium to meet the requirements of the
American's With Disabilities Act. These funds will be
disbursed to and directed by the two agencies that
operate the East Bay Paratransit Consortium:

•	AC Transit will receive 4.5% of net proceeds
annually, estimated at $348 M from 2012 to 2042
towards meeting its responsibilities under the
Americans with Disabilities Act.

•	BART will receive 1.5% of net proceeds annually,
estimated at $116 M from 2012 to 2042, towards
meeting its responsibilities under the Americans
with Disabilities Act.

City-based and Locally Mandated Pass-
through funding (3% of net revenue,
estimated at $232 M)

Pass-through funding provided to each of the four
subareas of the County will be used for
implementation of locally developed solutions to the

mobility challenges of older adults and persons with
disabilities. Funds will be distributed monthly based
on the percentage of the population over age 70 in
each of four planning areas for city-based and
mandated paratransit services of local bus transit
providers:

•	North County - including the cities of, Albany,
Alameda, Berkeley, Emeryville, Oakland and
Piedmont.

•	Central County - including the cities of Hayward
and San Leandro or unincorporated areas.

•	South County - including the cities of Fremont,
Union City, and Newark, as well as Union City
Transit.

•	East County - including the cities of Livermore,
Dublin, Pleasanton, unincorporated areas, and
LAVTA.

Funds can be further allocated to individual cities
within each planning area based on a formula refined
by Alameda CTC's Paratransit Advisory Planning
Committee (PAPCO), a group of seniors and disabled
riders that advise the Alameda CTC. In East County,
funding provided to Livermore and Dublin will be
assigned to LAVTA for their ADA mandated
paratransit program. In Central County, funding will
be provided to Hayward to serve the unincorporated
areas.

Coordination and Gap Grants (1% of
net revenue, estimated at $77 M)

These funds, administered by the Alameda CTC, will
be used for the purposes of coordinating services
across jurisdictional lines or filling gaps in the
system's ability to meet the mobility needs of seniors
and persons with disabilities. These funds will be
periodically distributed by the Alameda CTC for
projects and programs with proven ability to:

•	Improve mobility for seniors and persons with
disabilities by filling gaps in the services
available to this population.

•	Provide education and encouragement to seniors
and persons with disabilities who are able to use
standard public transit to do so.

•	Improve the quality and affordability of transit
and paratransit services for those who are
dependent on them.

•	Improve the efficiency and effectiveness of ADA-
mandated and local services.

2-6

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

PUBLIC TRANSIT AND SPECIALIZED TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

BUS TRANSIT EFFICIENCY AND
PRIORITY ($35 M)

A total of $35 M in sales tax funds will be allocated to
projects that enhance the reliability and speed of bus
transit services in the East Bay. These projects include
the implementation of Bus Rapid Transit and transit
priority projects on some of the busiest corridors in
the AC Transit system.

AC Transit East Bay Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) Projects ($25 M)

Bus Rapid Transit is a technology that reduces bus
travel times, improves the efficiency of transit service
and reduces conflicts between bus service and auto
travel on major streets. Three BRT corridors are
proposed:

•	The Telegraph Avenue/East l^/International
Boulevard project will provide enhanced transit
service connecting the Cities of San Teandro and
Oakland with potential improved rapid bus
services to UC Berkeley.

•	The Grand/MacArthur BRT project will enhance
transit service and allow for significant reliability
improvements in this critical corridor as well as
enhancing access to regional services at the
MacArthur BART station.

•	The Alameda to Fruitvale BART Rapid Bus

service will provide a fast and reliable connection
between the City of Alameda and the Fruitvale
BART station, providing service to new
development proposed for the City of Alameda.

Funds may be used for project development, design,
construction, access and enhancement of the rapid
transit corridors. These sales tax funds will allow the
Telegraph/East 1^/International project to be
completed and will provide needed local match to
attract leveraged funds to the other corridors which
are currently under development.

College/Broadway Corridor Transit
Priority ($10 M)

Funding will be provided for the implementation of
transit priority treatments to improve transit
reliability, reduce travel times and encourage more
transit riders on the well utilized College/Broadway
corridor.

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

2-7

PUBLIC TRANSIT AND SPECIALIZED TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

BUS TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

Not Shown:

-	Specialized Transit for Seniors and Persons with Disabilities

-	Innovative grants including potential youth transit pass program

-	Mass Transit Operations, Maintenance and Safety Program for AC Transit, Altamont
Commuter Express (ACE), Water Emergency Transportation Authority (WETA),
Livermore Amador Valley Transit Authority (LAVTA), and Union City Transit.

College/Broadway Corridor:
Transit Priority

AC Transit Grand Macarthur
Bus Rapid Transit



City of Alameda to Fruitvale
BART Bus Rapid Transit

AC Transit Telegraph Ave/ East 14th/
International Blvd Project

2-8

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

PUBLIC TRANSIT AND SPECIALIZED TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

BART SYSTEM MODERNIZATION AND
EXPANSION ($710 M)

The capital projects funded as part of the BART
System Modernization and Expansion investments
include projects that increase the capacity and utility
of the existing system, as well as providing local
funding for a proposed BART extension in the
eastern part of the county.

BART to Livermore ($400 M)

This project funds the first phase of a BART
Extension within the 1-580 Corridor freeway
alignment to the vicinity of the I-580/Isabel Avenue
interchange using the most effective and efficient
technology. Funds for construction for any element of
this first phase project shall not be used until full
funding commitments are identified and approved,
and a project-specific environmental clearance is
obtained. The project-specific environmental process
will include a detailed alternative assessment of all
fundable and feasible alternatives, and be consistent
with mandates, policies and guidance of federal,
state, and regional agencies that have jurisdiction
over the environmental and project development
process.

BART System Modernization and
Capacity Enhancements ($310 M)

BART projections indicate that its system will need to
carry over 700,000 daily riders by the end of this plan
period. New riders will affect the capacity of existing
systems and stations, requiring focused capacity
enhancements to keep the system moving as
ridership increases occur. •

• The Bay Fair Connector/BART METRO project
will receive $100 M in sales tax funds for the
Alameda County portion of this project which
will increase capacity and operational flexibility
systemwide. One goal of these improvements
will be to improve connections to jobs in the
southern part of the county and beyond as Santa
Clara County builds its own BART extension.

reliability upgrades, and other station equipment
replacement/upgrades.

• The Irvington BART Station will receive $120

M to provide an infill station on the soon-to-open
Warm Springs extension south of the existing
Fremont Station, creating new accessibility to
BART in the southern part of the County.

• The BART Station Modernization and Capacity
Program will receive $90 M for improvements at
all BART stations in Alameda County,
addressing station site, building envelope,
escalator and elevator rehabilitation/replacement,
circulation & wayfinding, air conditioning,
lighting & ambient environment, station

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

2-9

PUBLIC TRANSIT AND SPECIALIZED TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

BART INVESTMENTS

Q

O

Q

Bay Fair Connector / BART METRO
BART Extension to Livermore
Irvington BART Station

Not Shown:

-	BART Station Modernization and
Capacity Improvements

-	Specialized Transit for Seniors and
People with Disabilities

2-10

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

PUBLIC TRANSIT AND SPECIALIZED TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

REGIONAL RAIL ENHANCEMENTS AND
HIGH SPEED RAIL CONNECTIONS
($355 M)

Investments include maintenance and service
enhancements on existing rail lines and the
development of new rail service over the Dumbarton
Bridge. Funds will also be allocated for preserving
rail right of way for transportation purposes,
ensuring that service is available for future
generations. Finally, this funding category
acknowledges the importance of connecting high
speed rail to Alameda County and the Bay Area and
seeks to prioritize targeted investments to ensure
strong connections to this future service.

Dumbarton Rail Corridor
Implementation ($120 M)

The Dumbarton Rail Corridor Project will extend
commuter services across the southern portion of the
San Francisco Bay between the Peninsula and the East
Bay. The project will link multiple transit services
including Caltrain, the Altamont Express, Amtrak's
Capitol Corridor, BART, and East Bay bus systems at
a multi-modal transit center in Union City. The
environmental process will determine the most
effective service in this corridor.

Union City Intermodal Station ($75 M)

This project funds the development of a new
intermodal station in Union City to serve BART,
Dumbarton Rail, Capitol Corridor, ACE and local and
regional bus passengers. The project involves
construction of a two-sided rail station and bus
transit facility, accessible to a 30-acre transit oriented
development site. Improvements will be made to
pedestrian and bicycle access, BART parking,
elevators, fare gates and other passenger amenities.

Capital Corridor Service Expansion
($40 M)

This project supports track improvements and train
car procurement which will enable the trains running
between Oakland and San Jose to increase daily
round trips per day, matching frequencies between
Sacramento and Oakland.

Railroad Corridor Right of Way
Preservation and Track Improvements
($110 M)

Funds allocated by this project may be used to
maintain and enhance existing railroad corridors for
use as regional rail and other transportation purposes
as well as to preserve the rights of way of rail

corridors that could be used for other transportation
purposes, such as major trails.

Oakland Broadway Corridor Transit
($10 M)

This project will link neighborhoods to transit
stations along Broadway, Oakland's major transit
spine, providing a frequent and reliable connection
between the regional rail hub at Jack London Square,
with Downtown Oakland, the Uptown Arts and
Entertainment District, and adjoining neighborhoods,
utilizing the most efficient and effective technology.

2-11

PUBLIC TRANSIT AND SPECIALIZED TRANSIT INVESTMENTS

Not Shown:

- Railroad Corridor Right of Way Preservation and Track Improvements

REGIONAL RAIL INVESTMENTS

Broadway Corridor Transit mm..

Capitol Corridor Service Expansion
Union City Intermodal Station
Dumbarton Rail Corridor

LOCAL STREETS AND ROADS

A total of 30% of the
net revenue
anticipated from this
tax is dedicated to
the improvement of
local streets and
roads. Streets and
roads investments include two major
components: a program that provides
funding for local jurisdictions to
maintain streets and roads, and a
capital program that is focused on
improving the performance of major
commute routes and bridges
throughout the County, including
enhancing seismic safety.

The Streets and Roads program in
this Expenditure Plan involves
shared responsibility - local
cities and the County will set
their local priorities within a
framework that requires complete
streets to serve all users and
types of transportation, honors
best practices and encourages
agencies to work together. More
specifically, streets and roads
expenditures will be designed to
benefit all modes of travel by
improving safety, accessibility,
and convenience for all users of
the street right-of-way. The plan
also focuses on important commute
corridors that carry the majority
of the driving public and cross
city boundaries, ensuring enhanced
cooperation and coordination
between agencies.

LOCAL STREETS AND ROADS
MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY PROGRAM
(20% OF NET REVENUES, $1,548 M)

In recognition that local streets and roads are the
backbone of our transportation system, this program

provides funds to local cities and Alameda County
for maintaining and improving local infrastructure.
Funds may be used for any local transportation need
based on local priorities, including streets and road
maintenance, bicycle and pedestrian projects, bus
stops, and traffic calming. All projects implemented
with these funds will support a "complete streets
philosophy" where all modes and users are
considered in the development of the local road
system. A minimum of 15% of all local streets and
roads funds will be spent on project elements directly
benefitting bicyclists and pedestrians.

The Local Streets and Roads Maintenance and Safety
program is designed as a pass-through program, with
funds being provided to local jurisdictions to be used
on locally determined priorities. Twenty percent of
net revenues will be allocated to local cities and the
county based on a formula that includes population
and road miles for each jurisdiction, weighted
equally, consistent with the current Measure B
formula. The formula will be revisited within the first
five years of the plan to ensure overall geographic
equity in the TEP. This program is intended to
augment, rather than replace, existing transportation
funding.

MAJOR COMMUTE CORRIDORS, LOCAL
BRIDGE AND SEISMIC SAFETY
INVESTMENTS ($800 M) * •

Major commute routes, illustrated on the map on
page 2-14, serve a high percentage of the daily
commuters in Alameda County and the majority of
trips for other purposes. These roads are crucial for
the movement of goods to stores and consumers, for
transit riders and for motorists, and for bicyclists and
pedestrians. Concentrating improvements in these
corridors will improve access and efficiencies,
increase safety and reduce congestion.

This program focuses funding on improvements to
major roads, bridges, freight improvements and
railroad grade separations or quiet zones. Examples
of commute corridors eligible for funding include,
but are not limited to, the following:

• North County Major Roadways: Solano Avenue
Pavement resurfacing and beautification; San
Pablo Avenue Improvements; State Route
13/Ashby Avenue corridor; Marin Avenue local
road safety; Gilman railroad crossing; Park
Street, High Street and Fruitvale bridge

2-13

LOCAL STREETS AND ROADS

replacements; Powell Street bridge widening at
Christie; East 14th Street improvements, Oakland
Army Base transportation infrastructure
improvements.

•	Central County Major Roadways: Crow Canyon
Road safety improvements, San Leandro local
road resurfacing, Lewelling Road/Hesperian
Boulevard improvements, Tennyson Road grade
separation.

•	South County Major Roadways: East-west
connector in North Fremont and Union City, I-
680/1-880 cross connectors, Fremont Boulevard
improvements, upgrades to the relinquished
Route 84 in Fremont, Central Avenue
Overcrossing, Thornton Ave widening, Mowry
Ave., Newark local streets.

•	East County Major Roadways: Greenville Road
widening, El Charro Road improvements,
Dougherty Road widening, Dublin Boulevard
widening, Bernal Bridge construction.

•	Countywide Freight Corridors: Outer Harbor
Intermodal Terminal at the Port of Oakland, 7th
Street grade separation and roadway
improvement in Oakland, as well as truck routes
serving the Port of Oakland.

Projects will be developed by local agencies working
in cooperation with neighboring jurisdictions and the
Alameda CTC to reduce congestion, remove
bottlenecks, improve safety, enhance operations, and
enhance alternatives to single occupant auto travel in
these corridors. Projects will be funded based on
project readiness, constructability, geographic equity,
and cost effectiveness as determined by the Alameda
CTC working with local jurisdictions as part of the
Alameda CTC Capital Improvement Program which
is updated every two years.

2-14

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

LOCAL STREETS AND ROADS

IIMerpMQ

Not Shown:

- Local streets and roads program,
pass-through to cities and County

M It

Data Sources: MTC Alameda County, ESRI

For illustrative purposes only

Examples of Major Roadways for Improvement:

North County:

Central County:
South County:

East County:

Solano Ave, San Pablo Ave, Ashby Ave, Marin Ave, Gilman Rail road Crossing,
Park St, High St, Fruitvale Bridge, Powell St Bridge, East 14th St, and Oakland
Army Base transportation improvements

Crow Canyon Rd, Hesperian Blvd, Lewelling Blvd, Tennyson Rd, and San
Leandro local streets

East-west connector, T-68G/I-880 cross connectors, Fremont Blvd, Route 84 in
Fremont, Central Ave Overcrossing, Thornton Ave, Mowry Ave, and Newark
local streets

Greenville Rd, El Charro Rd, Dougherty Rd, Dublin Blvd, and Bernal Bridge.

Countywide Freight Corridors: Truck routes serving the Port of Oakland, Outer Harbor

Intermodal Terminal and 7th St Improvements.

2-15

HIGHWAY EFFICIENCY AND FREIGHT

□The County’s aging
highway system
requires safety,
access and gap
closure improvements
to enhance
efficiencies on a
largely built-out system. Funding
has been allocated to each highway
corridor in Alameda County for
needed improvements. Specific
projects have been identified based
on project readiness, local
priority and the availability to
leverage current investments and
funds. A number of additional
eligible projects have been
identified as candidates for
corridor improvements, which will
be selected for funding based on
their contribution to the overall
goals of improving system
reliability, maximizing
connectivity, improving the
environment and reducing
congestion. Priority implementation
of specific investments and amounts
will be determined as part of the
Capital Improvement Program
developed by the Alameda CTC every
two years.

Most of the projects that have been
identified for funding are designed
to improve the efficiency of and
access to existing investments and
to close gaps and remove
bottlenecks.

A total of 9% of the net revenue is
allocated to the highway system,
including 1%, or approximately $77
M, allocated specifically to goods
movement and related projects.

1-80 CORRIDOR INVESTMENTS FROM
THE CONTRA COSTA COUNTY LINE TO
THE BAY BRIDGE ($76 M)

1-80 in the northern part of the County is the most
congested stretch of freeway in the Bay Area.
Investments in the interchanges on this route were
selected to relieve bottlenecks, improve safety and
improve conditions for cars, buses, trucks and
bicyclists and pedestrians. Key investments will be
made at the Ashby and Gilman interchanges in
Berkeley, which will improve conditions for all
modes in both Emeryville and Berkeley.

The 1-80 Gilman project will receive funding to
relieve a major bottleneck and safety problem at the I-
80 Gilman interchange. The project includes both a
major reconfiguration of the interchange and grade
separation of the roadway and the railroad crossing
which currently crosses Gilman at-grade impeding
traffic flow to and from the freeway. Improvements
will also be made for pedestrians and bicyclists
crossing this location and accessing recreational
opportunities west of the freeway, making this a true
multimodal improvement.

The Ashby Avenue corridor will receive funding to
fully reconstruct the Ashby Avenue Interchange by
eliminating the substandard eastbound on-ramp in
Berkeley's Aquatic Park. The interchange will be fully
accessible to vehicles traveling to and from
Emeryville and Berkeley and east and west on 1-80
will reduce local traffic congestion in Berkeley and
Emeryville and will improve bicycle and pedestrian
access. The project includes associated corridor
improvements on Ashby Avenue.

2-16

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

HIGHWAY EFFICIENCY AND FREIGHT INVESTMENTS

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

2-17


2-18

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

HIGHWAY EFFICIENCY AND FREIGHT INVESTMENTS

STATE ROUTE 84 FROM 1-580 TO I-
680 ($132 M)

Two significant improvements are planned for this
corridor to complete improvements at the SR 84 and
1-680 interchange and widening SR 84 to support
safety, connectivity and efficiency.

1-580 CORRIDOR INVESTMENTS FROM
DUBLIN TO SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
LINE ($48 M)

Investments in the 1-580 corridor include
improvements to the I-580/I-680 Interchange to
provide relief on one of the most significant
bottlenecks on the freeway system. Additional
funding is for interchange improvements in both East
and Central County, including improvements at
Vasco Road, Greenville Road and Isabel Avenue,
which are needed for major transit investments in the
Livermore area, as well as interchange improvements
in Central County, focusing on bottleneck relief and
safety improvements.

1-680 FROM CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
LINE TO THE SANTA CLARA COUNTY
LINE ($60 M)

Implementation of the 1-680 HOV/HOT lane in both
directions from Route 237 to Alcosta Boulevard is the
centerpiece of the improvements planned for this
heavily traveled corridor. This project will receive $60
M to construct carpool/high occupancy toll lanes on I-
680 between Alcosta Boulevard and Route 84 in both
directions.

1-880 CORRIDOR INVESTMENTS FROM
OAKLAND TO UNION CITY ($284 M)

1-880 corridor improvements include projects to
upgrade and improve key interchanges throughout
the corridor beginning with the Broadway/Jackson
interchange and Oak Street interchange in Oakland
and Alameda to the Whipple/Industrial Parkway
Southwest interchange in Hayward and to the
County line. Many other interchange projects are also
candidates for funding to relieve congestion and
improve safety.

Funds are included for 1-880 Broadway-Jackson
multimodal transportation and circulation
improvements for Alameda Point, Oakland
Chinatown, Downtown Oakland, and Jack London
Square.

2-19

HIGHWAY EFFICIENCY AND FREIGHT INVESTMENTS

Funds for interchange improvements at Whipple
Road and Industrial Boulevard in the Central part of
the County are also included, as well as making other
improvements on 1-880. The goals of these
improvements are to remove bottlenecks and
enhance safety at these critical interchanges, serving
motorists, other road users, and goods movement in
Central and Southern Alameda County.

In addition, funding will support completion of the
HOV/HOT carpool lanes on 1-880 from A Street in
Hayward to Hegenberger Road in Oakland, filling in
this important gap in the HOV lane system.

Additional funding on 1-880 includes a number of
critical access and interchange improvements in the
north and central parts of the county including grade
separations, bridge improvements and interchange
enhancements.

FREIGHT AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM (1% OF NET REVENUE,

$77 M) * •

These discretionary funds will be administered by the
Alameda CTC for the purposes of developing
innovative approaches to moving goods in a safe and
healthy environment in support of a robust economy.
Eligible expenditures in this category include:

•	Planning, development and implementation of
projects that enhance the safe transport of freight
by truck or rail in Alameda County, including
projects that reduce conflicts between freight
movement and other modes.

•	Planning, development and implementation of
projects that reduce greenhouse gas production
in the transport of goods.

•	Planning, development and implementation of
projects that mitigate environmental impacts of
freight movement on residential neighborhoods.

•	Planning, development and implementation of
projects that enhance coordination between the
Port of Oakland, Oakland Airport and local
jurisdictions for the purposes of improving the
efficiency, safety, and environmental and noise
impacts of freight operations while promoting a
vibrant economy.

These proposed funds will be distributed by the
Alameda CTC to eligible public agencies within
Alameda County. Eligible public agencies will
include local jurisdictions including cities, Alameda
County, the Port of Oakland and the Oakland
Airport.

2-20

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN INVESTMENTS

Key investments in
bicycle and
pedestrian
infrastructure
include completion of
the major trails in
the County. Funding
will allow for the completion of
three key trails: the County's East
Bay Greenway, which provides a
viable commute and community access
route for many cyclists and
pedestrians from Oakland to
Fremont, and the Bay Trail and Iron
Horse trails in Alameda County
which provide important off street
routes for both commute and
recreational trips. Funding for
priority projects in local and
countywide Bicycle and Pedestrian
plans will also allow for
investments that support the use of
these modes.

A total of 8% of the funds
available in this plan are devoted
to improving bicycle and pedestrian
infrastructure as well as providing
programs to encourage people to
bike and walk when possible and to
support accessibility for seniors
and the disabled. It is important
to note that in addition to these
dedicated funds, local bicycle and
pedestrian projects will also be
funded through the Local Streets
and Roads and Sustainable
Transportation and Land Use
Linkages funding categories.

COMPLETION OF MAJOR TRAILS -
IRON HORSE TRAIL, BAY TRAIL AND
EAST BAY GREENWAY ($264 M)

This project provides for increased pedestrian and
bicycle transportation options, more open space, and

improved public safety in neighborhoods on these
three major trails pictured on the next page. These
projects have the potential to generate extensive and
varied community benefits beyond creating
infrastructure for bicycle and pedestrian travel
including improving neighborhood connectivity,
improving access to transit, reducing local
congestion, improving safe access to schools,
supporting community health and reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. Funds may be applied to
the construction and maintenance of the three major
trails, as well as local connectors and access routes.

LOCAL BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN
SAFETY PROGRAM (5% OF NET
REVENUE, $387 M)

This proposed program is designed to fund projects
and provide operating funds that expand and
enhance bicycle and pedestrian safety and facilities in
Alameda County, focusing on projects that complete
the County's bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure
system. The proposed program consists of two
components.

Bicycle and Pedestrian Direct
Allocation to Cities and Alameda
County (3% of net revenue, estimated
at $232 M)

Pass-through funding will be provided on a monthly
basis to the cities and to Alameda County for
planning, construction and maintenance of bicycle
and pedestrian projects and programs, focusing on
completing the high priority projects described in
their Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plans. Funds will
be provided to each city within the county and to
Alameda County based on their share of population.
Jurisdictions will be expected to implement, operate
and maintain projects from the County's bicycle and
pedestrian plans and to commit to a complete streets
philosophy in their project design and
implementation.

Bike and Pedestrian Grant Program (2%
of net revenue, estimated at $154 M)

These funds, administered by the Alameda CTC, will
be available for the purposes of implementing and
maintaining regional bicycle and pedestrian facilities
and increasing safe bicycling. These proposed funds
will be periodically distributed by the Alameda CTC
for projects and programs that:

• Provide bicycle education and training

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

2-2 1

BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN INVESTMENTS

•	Increase the number of trips made by bicycle and
on foot

•	Improve coordination between jurisdictions

•	Maintain existing trails

•	Implement major elements of the Alameda
County Bicycle Master Plan and Pedestrian
Master Plan

2-22

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN INVESTMENTS

•	Implement bicycle and pedestrian elements of Community Based Transportation Plans

•	Support Safe Routes to Schools

•	Support school crossing guards

•	Provide bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure within and connecting to developments in priority development
areas

•	Leverage other sources of funding

Funds in this category will be used for a Countywide Bicycle and Pedestrian Coordinator position.

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

2-23

2-24

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

SUSTAINABLE LAND USE AND TRANSPORTATION

Investments in
sustainable
transportation and
land use linkages
recognize the need to
plan our

transportation system
along with the land uses that are
going to serve the growing demand
for housing and jobs in Alameda
County. A total of 4% of net
revenue or about $300 M is
dedicated to improvements that link
our transportation infrastructure
with areas identified for new
development. One percent of net
revenue, or about $77 M, is
dedicated to investments in new
technology, innovation and
development.

PRIORITY DEVELOPMENT
AREA/TRANSIT ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS ($300 M)

These investments target immediate term
opportunities for enhancing access, improving safety
and creating new infrastructure and supporting
construction at BART stations, as well as station area
development and transit oriented development at
sites identified for early implementation throughout
the County. Funds in this category may be spent on
project development, design, and environmental
clearance as well as construction, operations and
maintenance of new infrastructure in these areas.
Priority implementation of specific investments and
amounts will be determined as part of the Capital
Improvement Program developed by the Alameda
CTC every two years. Examples of eligible station
areas to be included in this category are:

North County Station Areas and
Priority Development Areas

•	Broadway Valdez Priority Development Area
(PDA)

•	Coliseum BART Station Enhancements

•	Lake Merritt BART Station and Area
Improvements

•	West Oakland BART Station Area

•	Eastmont Mall Priority Development Area (PDA)

•	19th Street BART Station Area

•	MacArthur BART Station Area

•	Ashby BART Station Area

•	Berkeley Downtown Station Area

Central County Station Areas and

Priority Development Areas

•	Downtown San Leandro Transit Oriented
Development (TOD)

•	Bay Fair BART Transit Village

•	San Leandro City Streetscape Project

•	South Hayward BART Station Area

South County Station Areas and

Priority Development Areas

•	BART Warm Springs Westside Access
Improvements

•	Fremont Boulevard Streetscape Project

•	Union City Intermodal Infrastructure
Improvements

•	Dumbarton Transit Oriented Development
(TOD) Infrastructure improvements

East County Station Areas

•	West Dublin BART Station and Area
Improvements

•	Downtown Dublin Transit Oriented
Development (TOD)

•	East Dublin / Pleasanton BART Station and Area
Improvements

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan I 

2-25



2-26

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

INVESTMENTS IN SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION AND LAND USE LINKAGES

INVESTMENTS IN NEW TECHNOLOGY,
INNOVATION AND DEVELOPMENT (1%

OF NET REVENUE, $77 M)

These proposed discretionary funds are designed to
be administered by the Alameda CTC to develop
innovative approaches to meeting the County's
transportation vision, emphasizing the use of new
and emerging technologies to better manage the
transportation system. Eligible expenditures in this
category include:

•	Planning, development, implementation and
maintenance of new technology and innovative
strategies designed to improve the efficiency or
effectiveness of the County's transportation
system.

•	Planning, development, implementation and
maintenance of new technology and innovative
strategies designed to better inform consumers of
their transportation choices.

•	Planning, development, implementation and
maintenance of new technology and innovative
strategies designed to increase utilization of non-
auto modes or to increase the occupancy of autos
with the goal of reducing congestion and
greenhouse gas production.

•	Planning, development, implementation and
maintenance of new technology and innovative
strategies designed to reduce transportation
related greenhouse gases through the utilization
of a cleaner vehicle fleet including alternative
fuels and/or locally produced energy.

•	Environmental mitigation for transportation
projects including land banking.

•	Planning, development and implementation of
demand management strategies designed to
reduce congestion, increase use of non-auto
modes, manage existing infrastructure and
reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

•	Planning, development and implementation of
transportation policies designed to manage
parking supply to improve availability,
utilization and to reduce congestion and
greenhouse gas production.

These proposed funds would be distributed
periodically by the Alameda CTC to eligible public
agencies within Alameda County.

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

2-27

Implementation of this sales tax is authorized under
the Local Transportation Authority and Improvement
Act, California Public Utilities Code Section 180000 et
seq. In enacting this ordinance, voters will authorize
the Alameda County Transportation Commission
(referred to herein as the Alameda CTC) to have the
responsibility to administer the tax proceeds in
accordance with all applicable laws and with the
Transportation Expenditure Plan (TEP). Funds
collected for this tax may be spent only for the
purposes identified in the TEP, as it may be amended
as described in the implementation guidelines. Under
no circumstances may the proceeds of this
transportation sales tax be applied to any purpose
other than for transportation improvements
benefitting Alameda County. Under no circumstances
may these funds be appropriated by the State of
California or any other governmental agency.

The Alameda County Transportation Commission
was created in July 2010 through a merger of two
existing agencies: the Alameda County
Transportation Improvement Authority, which
administered the existing Measure B half-cent
transportation sales tax, and the Alameda County
Congestion Management Agency, which was
responsible for long-range planning and
programming of transportation funds. The merger
was designed to save taxpayer money by developing
a single, streamlined organization focused on
planning, funding and delivering county wide
projects and programs with local, regional, state and
federal funds in the most efficient and effective
manner to serve the county's transportation needs.
The merger has resulted in millions of dollars of
savings to taxpayer's on an annual basis.

GOVERNING BODY AND
ADMINISTRATION

The Alameda CTC is governed by a Commission
comprised of 22 members, with the following
representation:

•	All five Alameda County supervisors

•	Two Oakland representatives

•	One representative from each of the other 13
cities

•	AC Transit

•	BART

The Commission is assisted by staff dedicated to
implementation and monitoring of sales tax projects
and programs. The total cost assigned for salaries and
benefits for administrative employees shall not
exceed 1% of the revenues generated by the sales tax.
The total cost of administration of this tax, including
all rent, supplies, consulting services and other
overhead costs will not exceed 4% of the proceeds of
the tax. In addition, funds to repay election costs are
included herein.

INDEPENDENT WATCHDOG COMMITTEE

The Independent Watchdog Committee will have the
responsibility of reviewing and overseeing all
expenditures of sales tax funds by the Alameda CTC.
The Independent Watchdog Committee (IWC)
reports directly to the public.

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

3-1

GOVERNING BODY AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

The responsibilities of this committee are:

•	The IWC must hold public hearings and issue
reports, on at least an annual basis, to inform
Alameda County residents about how the sales
tax funds are being spent. The hearings will be
open to the public and must be held in
compliance with the Brown Act, California's
open meeting law, with information announcing
the hearings well-publicized and posted in
advance.

•	The IWC will have full access to the Alameda
CTC's independent auditor and will have the
authority to request and review specific
information regarding use of the sales tax funds
and to comment on the auditor's reports.

•	The IWC will publish an independent annual
report, including any concerns the committee has
about audits it reviews. The report will be
published in local newspapers and will be made
available to the public in a variety of forums to
ensure access to this information.

IWC members are private citizens who are not
elected officials at any level of government, nor
public employees from agencies that either oversee or
benefit from the proceeds of the sales tax.
Membership is limited to individuals who live in
Alameda County. Members are required to submit a
statement of financial disclosure and membership is
restricted to individuals without economic interest in
any of the Alameda CTC's projects or programs. The
IWC is designed to reflect the diversity of Alameda
County. Membership is as follows:

•	Two members are chosen at-large from each of
the five supervisorial districts in the county (total
of 10 at-large members). One member is
nominated by each member of the Board of
Supervisors and one additional member in each
supervisorial district is selected by the Alameda
County Mayors' Conference.

•	Seven members are selected to reflect a balance
of viewpoints across the county. These members
are nominated by their respective organizations
and approved by the Alameda CTC Board of
Directors as follows:

o One representative from the Alameda
County Taxpayer's Association

o One representative from the Sierra Club

o One representative from the Alameda
County Tabor Council

o One representative from the East Bay
Economic Development Alliance

o One representative from the Alameda
County Paratransit Advisory Committee
(PAPCO)

o One representative from the East Bay Bicycle
Coalition

o One representative from the League of
Women's Voters

The members of the IWC are expected to provide a
balance of viewpoints, geography, age, gender,
ethnicity and income status, to represent the different
perspectives of the residents of the county.

ADVISORY COMMITTEES

The Alameda CTC is assisted by the advice of
technical and public advisory committees. These
committees, described below, meet regularly and are
charged with carrying out important functions on
behalf of the Alameda CTC.

Alameda County Technical Advisory
Committee (ACTAC)

The ACTAC is the technical advisory committee to
the Alameda CTC. The ACTAC members provide
technical expertise, analysis and recommendations
related to transportation planning, programming and
funding with the Alameda CTC Executive Director
functioning as Chair.

Paratransit Advisory and Planning
Committee (PAPCO)

PAPCO addresses funding, planning, and
coordination issues regarding specialized
transportation services for seniors and persons with
disabilities in Alameda County. PAPCO has the
responsibility of making direct recommendations to
the Board of Directors of the Alameda CTC on
funding for senior and disabled transportation
services. PAPCO is supported by a Technical
Advisory Committee comprised of paratransit
providers in Alameda County funded by local
transportation sales tax funds.

3-2

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

GOVERNING BOARD AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee (BPAC)

The BPAC reviews all competitive applications
submitted to the Alameda CTC for bicycle and
pedestrian safety funds from Measure B, along with
the development and updating of the Alameda
Countywide Pedestrian and Bicycle Plans and makes
recommendations to the Alameda CTC for funding.
The BPAC also provides input on countywide
educational and promotional programs and other
projects of countywide significance, upon request.

Other Committees

The Alameda CTC will establish other community
and technical advisory committees as necessary to
implement the projects and programs in the TEP and
to inform and educate the public on the use of funds
for projects and programs in the TEP.

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

3-3

IMPLEMENTING

GUIDELINES

This Transportation Expenditure Plan (TEP) is guided
by principles that ensure that the revenue generated
by the sales tax is spent only for the purposes
outlined in this plan, in the most efficient and
effective manner possible, consistent with the
direction provided by the voters of Alameda County.

ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN

1.	Funds only Projects and Programs in TEP:

Funds collected under this measure may be spent
only for the purposes identified in the
Transportation Expenditure Plan, or as it may be
amended by the Alameda CTC governing body.

2.	All Decisions Made in Public Process: The

Alameda County Transportation Commission
(Alameda CTC) is given the fiduciary duty of
administering the transportation sales tax
proceeds in accordance with all applicable laws
and with the TEP. Activities of the Alameda CTC
Board of Directors will be conducted in public
according to state law, through publicly noticed
meetings. The annual budgets of the Alameda
CTC, annual strategic plans and annual reports
will all be prepared for public review. The
interests of the public will be further protected by
an Independent Watchdog Committee, described
previously in this plan.

3.	Salary and Administration Cost Caps: The

Alameda CTC will have the authority to hire
professional staff and consultants to deliver the
projects and programs included in this plan in
the most efficient and cost-effective manner. The
salaries and benefits for administrative staff hired
by the Alameda CTC for this tax will not exceed
1% of the proceeds of the tax.

The total of all administrative costs including
overhead costs such as rent and supplies will be
limited to no more than 4% of the proceeds of
this tax.

The cost of Alameda CTC staff who directly
implement specific projects or programs are not
included in administrative costs.

4.	Amendments Require 2/3 Support: To modify
and amend this plan, an amendment must be
adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Alameda
CTC Commissioners. All jurisdictions within the
county will be given a minimum of 45 days to
comment on any proposed TEP amendment.

5 . Augment Transportation Funds: Pursuant to
California Public Utilities Code 180001 (e), it is
the intent of this expenditure plan that funds
generated by the transportation sales tax be used
to supplement and not replace existing local
revenues used for transportation purposes.

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UPDATE
PROCESS

6.	Comprehensive Plan Updates: While the
transportation sales tax is intended to be
collected in perpetuity, this plan recognizes that
transportation needs, technology, and
circumstances change over time. This plan is
intended to govern the expenditure of new
transportation sales tax funds (not including the
existing Measure B funds), collected from
implementation in 2013 through subsequent tax
collections for an unlimited period, unless
otherwise terminated by the voters.

7.	Comprehensive Plan Update Schedule: The

TEP will undergo a comprehensive update at
least one time no later than the last general
election prior to the end of 2042 and then at least
once every 20 years thereafter.

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan I 4-1

IMPLEMENTING GUIDELINES

8.	Approval of a Comprehensive Updated Plan:

In order to adopt a comprehensive updated
expenditure plan, the Alameda County
Transportation Commission will appoint an
Expenditure Plan Update Advisory Committee,
representing the diverse interests of Alameda
County residents, businesses and community
organizations to assist in updating the plan. The
meetings of this committee will be publicly
noticed, and the committee will be responsible
for developing a public process for soliciting
input into the comprehensive plan update.

A recommendation for the adoption of the
updated expenditure plan shall require a two-
thirds vote of the Alameda CTC Commissioners
and shall be taken back to the local jurisdictions
including the cities, Alameda County and transit
agencies for review and comment. The
comprehensive plan update will appear on a
general election ballot in Alameda County for
approval by the voters, requiring a majority vote.

All meetings at which a comprehensive plan
update is considered will be conducted in
accordance with all public meeting laws and
public notice requirements and will be done to
allow for maximum public input into the
development of updating the plan.

TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS, AUDITS AND

ACCOUNTABILITY

Accountability is of utmost importance in delivering
public investments with public dollars. The Alameda
CTC is committed to transparency and accountability
as a public agency along with its many jurisdictional
partners and there are many measures built into this
measure to ensure voter accountability in
expenditure of funds.

9.	Annual Audits and Independent Watchdog
Committee Review: Transportation sales tax
expenditures are subject to an annual
independent audit and review by an
Independent Watchdog Committee. The
Watchdog Committee will prepare an annual
report on spending and progress in
implementing the plan that will be published and
distributed throughout Alameda County.

10.	Strict Project Deadlines: To ensure that the
projects promised in this plan can be completed
in a timely manner, each project will be given a

period of seven years from the first year of
revenue collection (up to December 31, 2019) to
receive environmental clearance approvals and
to have a full funding plan for each project.
Project sponsors may appeal to the Alameda CTC
Commissioners for one-year time extensions.

11.	Timely Use of Funds: Jurisdictions receiving
funds for transit operations, on-going road
maintenance, services for seniors and disabled,
and bicycle and pedestrian safety projects and
programs must expend the funds expeditiously
and report annually on the expenditure, their
benefits and future planned expenditures. These
reports will be made available to the public at the
beginning of each calendar year.

12.	Annual Budget and Strategic Plan: Each year,
the Alameda CTC adopts an annual budget that
projects the expected sales tax receipts, other
anticipated funds and planned expenditures for
administration, programs and projects. The
Alameda CTC will also prepare an annual
Strategic Plan which will identify the priority for
projects and dates for project implementation
based on project readiness, ability to generate
leveraged funds and other relevant criteria. Both
the budget and the Strategic Plan will be adopted
at a public meeting of the Alameda CTC
Commissioners.

13.	Commitments from Fund Recipients: All

recipients of funds allocated in this expenditure
plan will be required to sign a Master Funding
Agreement, detailing their roles and
responsibilities in spending sales tax funds and
including local hiring requirements. Funding
agreements will include performance and
accountability measures. In addition, fund
recipients will conduct an annual audit to ensure
that funds are managed and spent according to
the requirements of this expenditure plan.

14.	Capital Improvement Program Updates: Project
descriptions will be detailed and fully defined for
inclusion in the Alameda CTC Capital
Improvement Program which will be updated
every two years, and which will provide for
geographic equity in overall funding allocations.
All allocations will be made through a public
process.

4-2

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

IMPLEMENTING GUIDELINES

15.	Geographic Equity: Funding formulas for all
programs will be revisited within the first five
years of the plan to ensure overall geographic
equity based on population and /or other equity
factors. Funding for capital projects will be
evaluated through the biennial capital
improvement planning process which will
include an evaluation of geographic equity by
planning area.

RESTRICTIONS ON FUNDS

16.	No Expenditures Outside of Alameda County:

Under no circumstances may the proceeds of this
transportation sales tax be applied to any
purpose other than for transportation
improvements benefitting Alameda County.
Under no circumstances may these funds be
appropriated by the State of California or any
other governmental agency, as defined in the
implementation guidelines.

17.	Environmental and Equity Reviews: All projects
funded by sales tax proceeds are subject to laws
and regulations of federal, state and local
government, including but not limited to the
requirements of the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA), and Title VI of the Civil
Rights Act, as applicable. All projects and
programs funded with sales tax funds will be
required to conform to the requirements of these
regulations, as applicable. All projects that go
through environmental review analyses will
select the most efficient and effective project
alternative and technology for implementation to
meet the objective of the project, and will have
clearly defined project descriptions, limits and
locations as a result of the environmental process.

18.	Complete Streets: It is the policy of the Alameda
CTC that all transportation investments shall
consider the needs of all modes and all users. All
investments will conform to Complete Streets
requirements and Alameda County guidelines to
ensure that all modes and all users are
considered in the expenditure of funds so that
there are appropriate investments that fit the
function and context of facilities that will be
constructed.

19.	Local Contracting and Jobs: The Alameda CTC
will develop a policy supporting the hiring of
local contractors, businesses and residents from

Alameda County as applicable in the expenditure
of these funds.

20.	New Agencies: New cities or new entities (such
as new transit agencies) that come into existence
in Alameda County during the life of the Plan
could be considered as eligible recipients of
funds through a Plan amendment

PROJECT FINANCING GUIDELINES AND
MANAGING REVENUE FLUCTUATIONS

21.	Fiduciary Duty: By augmenting and extending
the transportation sales tax, the Alameda CTC is
given the fiduciary duty of administering the
proceeds of this tax for the benefit of the
residents and businesses of Alameda County.
Funds may be accumulated by the Alameda CTC
or by recipient agencies over a period of time to
pay for larger and longer-term projects pursuant
to the policies adopted by the Alameda CTC. All
interest income generated by these proceeds will
be used for the purposes outlined in this TEP and
will be subject to audits.

22.	Project and Program Financing: The Alameda
CTC will have the authority to bond for the
purposes of expediting the delivery of
transportation projects and programs. The bonds
will be paid with the proceeds of this tax. The
costs associated with bonding, including interest
payments, will be borne only by the capital
projects included in the TEP and any programs
included in the TEP that utilize the bond
proceeds. The costs and risks associated with
bonding will be presented in the Alameda CTC's
annual Strategic Plan and will be subject to
public comment before any bond sale is
approved.

23.	Programming of Funds: Actual revenues may, at
times, be higher than expected in this plan due to
changes in receipts and additional funds may
become available due to increased opportunities
for leveraging or project costs less than expected.
Revenue may be lower than expected as the
economy fluctuates. Estimates of actual revenue
will be calculated annually by the Alameda CTC
during its annual budget process. Any excess
revenue will be programmed in a manner that
will accelerate the implementation of the projects
and programs described in this plan, at the
direction of the Alameda CTC Commissioners.

4-3

IMPLEMENTING GUIDELINES

24.	Fund Allocations: Should a planned project
become infeasible or unfundable due to
circumstances unforeseen at the time of this plan,
or should a project not require all funds
programmed for that project, funding will
remain within its modal category such as Transit,
Roads, Highways, Sustainable Transportation
and Tand Use, or Bicycle and Pedestrian Safety,
and be reallocated to projects or programs in the
same funding category at the discretion of the
Alameda CTC.

25.	Leveraging Funds: Leveraging or matching of
outside funding sources is strongly encouraged.
Any additional transportation sales tax revenues
made available through their replacement by
matching funds will be spent based on the
principles outlined for fund allocations described
above.

4-4

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

Appendix A: Full List of TEP Investments by Mode

Mode	Investment Category	Project/Program	$ Amount	% of Total Funds
Transit & Specialized Transit (48%)	Mass Transit: Operations, Maintenance, and Safety Program	AC Transit	$1,455.15	18.8%
		ACE	$77.40	1.0%
		BART Maintenance	$38.70	0.5%
		WETA	$38.70	0.5%
		LA VTA	$38.70	0.5%
		Union City Transit	$19.35	0.25%
		Innovative grant funds, including successful student transportation programs	$174.63	2.24%
	Transit Program for Students and Youth	Access to School Program	$15.00	0.19%
		Sub-total	$1,857.64	24%
	Specialized Transit For Seniors and Persons with Disabilities	City-based and Locally Mandated	$232.20	3.0%
		East Bay Paratransit - AC Transit	$348.31	4.5%
		East Bay Paratransit - BART	$116.10	1.5%
		Coordination and Gap Grants	$77.40	1.0%
		Sub-total	$774.02	10%
	Bus Transit Efficiency and Priority	Telegraph Avenue/East 14th/ International Boulevard project	$10.0	14%
		Alameda to Fruitvale BART Rapid Bus	$9.0	
		Grand/Macarthur BRT	$6.0	
		College/Broadway Corridor Transit Priority	$10.0	
		Sub-total	$35.0	
	BART System Modernization and Capacity Enhancements	Irvington BART Station	$120.0	
		Bay Fair Connector/BART METRO	$100.0	
		BART Station Modernization and Capacity Program	$90.0	
		BART to Livermore	$400.0	
		Sub-total	$710.0	
	Regional Rail Enhancements and High Speed Rail Connections	Dumbarton Rail Corridor	$120.0	
		Union City Intermodal Station	$75.0	
		Railroad Corridor Right of Way Preservation and Track Improvements	$110.0	
		Oakland Broadway Corridor Transit	$10.0	
		Capitol Corridor Service Expansion	$40.0	
		Sub-total	$355.0	
	TOTAL		$3,731.66	48%

Notes: Priority implementation of specific investments and amounts for fully defined capital projects and phases will be determined as part of the
Capital Improvement Program developed through a public process and adopted by the Alameda CTC every two years and will include geographic
equity provisions.

BART Maintenance funds will require an equal amount of matching funds and must be spent in Alameda County.

All recipients of sales tax funds will be required to enter into agreements which will include performance and accountability measures.

A- 1

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

Mode

Local Streets
& Roads

(30%)

Investment Category

Project/Program

Major Commute
Corridors, Local
Bridge Seismic
Safety

Direct Allocation to
Cities and County
TOTAL

North County Example Projects___________

Solano Avenue Pavement resurfacing &
beautification; San Pablo Avenue
Improvements; SR 13/Ashby Avenue
Corridor; Marin Avenue local road safety;
Gilman railroad crossing; Park Street,
High Street, and Fruitvale Bridge
Replacement; Powell Street Bridge
widening at Christie; East 14th Street;
Oakland Army Base transportation

infrastructure improvements_____________

Central County Example Projects
Crow Canyon Road safety; San Leandro
LS&R*; Lewelling Blvd/Hesperian Blvd.;

Tennyson Road Grade Separation__________

South County Example Projects___________

East-West Connector in North Fremont
and Union City; 1-680/1-880 cross
connectors; widen Fremont Boulevard
from 1-880 to Grimmer Boulevard;
upgrades to relinquished Route 84 in
Fremont; Central Avenue overcrossing;
Thornton Ave widening; Newark LS&R

East County Example Projects____________

El Charro road improvements; Dougherty
Road widening; Dublin Boulevard
widening; Greenville Road widening;

Bernal Bridge Construction______________

Sub-total_______________________________

Countywide Freight Corridors____________

Outer Harbor Intermodal Terminal; 7th
Street Grade Separation and Roadway
Improvement; Truck Routes serving the

Port of Oakland_________________________

Sub-total_______________________________

Local streets and roads program

$ Amount

% of Total
Funds

10%

$639.0

$161.0___________

$1,548.03	20%

$2,348.03	30%

Notes: Priority implementation of specific investments and amounts for fully defined capital projects and phases will be determined as part of the
Capital Improvement Program developed through a public process and adopted by the Alameda CTC every two years and will include geographic
equity provisions.

All recipients of sales tax funds will be required to enter into agreements which will include performance and accountability measures.

*This includes $30 million for San Leandro local streets and roads improvements

Appendix A: Full List of TEP Investments by Mode

Mode	Investment Category	Project/Program	$ Amount	% of Total Funds
	1-80 Improvements	1-80 Gilman Street Interchange improvements	$24.0	
		1-80 Ashby Interchange improvements	$52.0	
		Sub-total	$76.0	
	SR-84  Improvements	SR-84/1-680 Interchange and SR-84 Widening	$122.0	
		SR-84 Expressway Widening (Pigeon Pass to Jack London)	$10.00	
		Sub-total	$132.0	
		1-580/1-680 Interchange improvements	$20.0	
	1-580  Improvements	1-580 Local Interchange Improvement Program: Interchange improvements - Greenville, Vasco, Isabel Avenue (Phase 2); Central County 1-580 spot intersection improvements	$28.0	
		Sub-total	$48.0	
	1-680  Improvements	1-680 HOT/HOV Lane from SR-237 to Alcosta	$60.0	
		Sub-total	$60.0	8%
Highway Efficiency & Freight (9%)		1-880 NB HOV/HOT Extension from A St. to Hegenberger	$20.0	
		1-880 Broadway/Jackson multimodal transportation and circulation improvements	$75.0	
		Whipple Road / Industrial Parkway Southwest Interchange improvements	$60.0	
	1-880  Improvements	1-880 Industrial Parkway Interchange improvements	$44.0	
		1-880 Local Access and Safety improvements: Interchange improvements - Winton Avenue; 23rd/29th Ave., Oakland; 42nd Street/High Street; Route 262 (Mission) improvements and grade separation; Oak Street	$85.0	
				
				
		Sub-total	$284.0	
	Highway Capital Projects	Sub-total	$600.0	
	Freight &  Economic  Development	Freight and economic development program	$77.40	1%
	TOTAL		$677.40	9%

Notes: Priority implementation of specific investments and amounts for fully defined capital projects and phases will be determined as part of the
Capital Improvement Program developed through a public process and adopted by the Alameda CTC every two years and will include geographic
equity provisions.

All recipients of sales tax funds will be required to enter into agreements which will include performance and accountability measures.

A- 3

Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan

Appendix A:	Full	List	of	TEP	Investments	by	Mode

Mode	Investment Category	Project/Program	$ Amount	% of Total Funds
Bicycle and Pedestrian  (8%)	Bicycle and Pedestrian Infrastructure & Safety	Gap Closure on Three Major Trails: Iron Horse, Bay Trail, and East Bay Greenway/UPRR Corridor	$264.0	3%
		Bicycle and pedestrian direct allocation to cities and Alameda County	$232.20	3%
		Bike and Pedestrian grant program for regional projects and trail maintenance	$154.80	2%
	TOTAL		$651.0	8%
		North County Example Projects*		
		Broadway Valdez Priority Development Area; Eastmont Mall Priority Development Area; BART station areas: Oakland Coliseum; Lake Merritt; West Oakland; 19th St; MacArthur; Ashby; Berkeley Downtown		
		Central County Example Projects		
Sustainable	Priority  Development Area (PDA) / Transit- oriented Development (TOD)  Infrastructure  Investments	Downtown San Leandro TOD; Bay Fair BART Transit Village; San Leandro City Streetscape Project; South Hayward BART Station Area		
Land Use &		South County Example Projects		4%
Transporta- tion Linkages (4%)		BART Warm Springs West Side Access Improvements; Fremont Boulevard Streetscape Project; Union City Intermodal Infrastructure Improvements; Dumbarton TOD Infrastructure Improvements		
		East County Example Projects		
		West Dublin BART Station and Area Improvements; Downtown Dublin TOD; East Dublin/ Pleasanton BART Station and Area Improvements		
		Sub-total	$300.00	
	TOTAL		$300.00	4%
Technology  (1%)	Technology, Innovation, and Development	Technology, Innovation, and Development program	$77.40	1%
TOTAL NEW NET FUNDING (2013-42)			$7,786	

Notes: Priority implementation of specific investments and amounts for fully defined capital projects and phases will be determined as part of the
Capital Improvement Program developed through a public process and adopted by the Alameda CTC every two years and will include geographic
equity provisions.

All recipients of sales tax funds will be required to enter into agreements which will include performance and accountability measures.

* Preliminary allocation of North County Funds subject to change by Alameda CTC: Coliseum BART Area ($40 M), Broadway Valdez ($20 M),
Lake Merritt ($20 M), West Oakland ($20 M), Eastmont Mall ($20 M), 19th Street ($20 M), MacArthur ($20 M), Ashby ($18.5 M), Berkeley 
Downtown ($20 M). <summaryend>