ORDINANCE NO. 2799

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF EL MONTE
IMPOSING A GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSE FEE MEASURED
BY THE SERVING, PROVIDING OR TRADING OF SUGAR
SWEETENED BEVERAGES, SUBJECT TO VOTER APPROVAL

WHEREAS, the budget of the City of El Monte (“City”), like the budgets of municipalities
throughout the State of California, has been strained and stressed in recent years by a
succession of adverse economic and legislative developments, including a depressed housing
market, major sales tax reductions caused by the closure of large business operations like
automobile dealerships as is the case in El Monte, increased costs for municipal services and
State take-a-ways and regulatory mandates; and

WHEREAS, recent economic challenges have forced the City to make significant cuts to
staff and services that have presented considerable challenges to the City’s ability to maintain
adequate core service levels (including public safety and emergency response services)
needed to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the public; and

WHEREAS, on December 29, 2011, the California Supreme Court issued a decision
ordering the dissolution of community redevelopment agencies throughout the State of
California, including the El Monte Community Redevelopment Agency;

WHEREAS, the United States Congress has also implemented automatic reductions in
Federal Funding of the Community Develop Block Grant (“CDBG”) Budget as well as the
Home Program Budget for Fiscal Years 2012-2013 and beyond;

WHEREAS, the elimination of both redevelopment, reductions to the CDBG and Home
Program funding and reductions in sales tax revenues due to the closure automobile
dealerships in the City have deprived the City of significant funding sources that helped absorb
a significant portion of the City’s services and staffing needs over the years;

WHEREAS, the loss of these vital funding sources has created short and long term
strains on the City’s still fragile general fund revenues and depleted general fund reserves; and

WHEREAS, the long term loss of redevelopment and CDBG and Home Program funds
and automobile dealerships places the City at serious risk of depleting its still meager reserves
thereby increasing the need to make additional cuts to personnel and services which remain
deeply understaffed in light of prior rounds of budget cutting in prior fiscal years; and

WHEREAS, in response to these ongoing fiscal stresses, City Departments have
worked diligently under the City Manager’s Office and the City’s Finance Division to reduce
departmental expenditures and implement strategies for greater cost efficiency; and

WHEREAS, budget-cutting alone is not sufficient to address long term issues of fiscal
solvency- not without significantly eroding the City’s ability to maintain vital infrastructure and
provide essential municipal services and programs; and

WHEREAS, the City, despite significant improvements in its fiscal accountability, is
again at imminent risk of operating paycheck to paycheck in the very near future if a long term
funding source cannot be found to close the funding gaps created by the loss of
redevelopment, CDBG and Home Program funding and the closure of auto dealerships; and

WHEREAS, the City’s fiscal crisis as herein described is of sufficient gravity and
severity that the City must at the earliest feasible juncture propose revenue enhancement
measures to the electorate in order to maintain, to the extent possible, the minimal level of
governmental services necessary to protect and preserve the health and general welfare of the
City’s residents, workers and visitors; and

WHEREAS, the City’s proposed sugary sweetened beverage license fee measure will
help to preserve basic community services and infrastructure obligations during the current
economic downturn has prevented the City from building critical operating reserves; and

WHEREAS, a sugary beverage business license fee would i) raise funds to be used for
general municipal purposes, including without limitation the initiation of nutritional and health
programs for youth and senior citizens; ii) raise the relative price of unhealthy beverages
thereby discouraging their consumption; and iii) decrease sales of those beverages and
influence demand for healthier alternatives, which may encourage beverage manufacturers to
reformulate their products; and

WHEREAS, where as the elimination of redevelopment and federal funding sources
have served to undermine the City’s original recovery projections and in the absence of secure
long-term funding sources risk plunging the City back into a condition of deficit and insufficient
reserves; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 2(b) of California Constitution Article XIIIC, the City
Council has unanimously declared the existence of a fiscal emergency in that there are
imminent financial risks and dangers, as described above, to the public welfare and the City’s
financial ability to provide essential municipal services without disruption, and has called a
special municipal election on Tuesday, November 6, 2012, at which election, this Ordinance
shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the City of El Monte; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the Special Municipal Election be consolidated with the
County-administered General Electron to be held on the same date and that within the City the
precincts, polling places, and election officers of the two elections be the same, and that the
Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk for the County of Los Angeles canvass the returns of the
Special Municipal Election and that the Special Municipal Election be held in all respects as if it
were part and parcel of the County-administered General Election; and

2

WHEREAS, it is necessary to secure the consent and order of the Board of Supervisors
of the County of Los Angeles to effect such consolidation; and

WHEREAS, the implementation of the business license fee would go into effect January
1, 2013 upon voter approval.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF EL MONTE, CALIFORNIA DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Title 5 (Business Licenses and Regulations) of the El Monte Municipal
Code is hereby amended by the addition of the following Chapter 5.10 (Sugar Sweetened
Beverages), which shall follow Chapter 5.08 (Business License Taxes) and read as follows:

“Chapter 5.10 SUGAR SWEETENED BEVERAGES
Section 5.10.010 Definitions

In addition to the definitions appearing in Chapter 1.04 of this Code, the following definitions
shall apply to this Chapter:

A.	“Caloric sweetener” means any caloric substance suitable for human consumption
that humans perceive as sweet and include, without, limitation, sucrose, fructose,
glucose, other sugars and fruit juice concentrates. “Caloric sweetener” excludes
non-caloric sweeteners. For purposes of this definition, “caloric” means a substance
which adds calories to the diet of a person who consumes that substance.

B.	“Consumer” means any person, including but not limited to a customer, employee or
guest who purchases, receives or takes a sugar sweetened beverage at a place
within the City to consume it.

C.	“Non-caloric sweetener" means any non-caloric substance suitable for human
consumption that humans perceive as sweet and includes, without limitation,
aspartame, saccharin, stevia and sucralose. “Non-caloric sweetener"’ excludes
caloric sweeteners. For purposes of this definition, “non-caloric” means a substance
which does not add calories to the diet of a person who consumes the substance.

D.	“Sugar sweetened beverage” means any nonalcoholic beverage, whether or not
carbonated, intended for human consumption which contains any added caloric
sweetener but excludes a beverage which would not be a sugar sweetened
beverage but for the fact that a consumer adds a caloric sweetener to it, whether or
not that caloric sweetener is provided by the taxpayer. As used in this definition,
“nonalcoholic beverage” means any beverage that contains less than one-half of one
percent of alcohol per volume. “Sugar sweetened beverage" shall not include
nutritional supplement drinks or rehydration beverages for children and/or seniors,
including but not limited to Pedialyte, Ensure, Lucerne, Pediasure.

3

E.

The City Council is authorized to clarify the inclusion or exclusion of particular
beverages that shall be considered "sugar sweetened beverages” by ordinance
amending this chapter.

Section 5.10.020 Additional License Fee

In addition to any other license fees imposed by the City, every person engaging in or
conducting any business in the City shall pay a fee of one (1) cent per ounce of sugar
sweetened beverage served, provided or traded by the person in the course of doing business
in the City. In accordance with the November 6, 2012 election results, the voters authorize the
City Council by separate ordinance amending this chapter to transfer the legal incidence of this
tax from retailers to the wholesalers who serve them, provided that the tax does not exceed
one cent per fluid ounce of sugar-sweetened beverage served, provided or traded in the
course of doing business in the City.

Section 5.10.030 Measurement of Activity

For the purposes of this Chapter, a person serves, provides or trades a sugar sweetened
beverage when the person:

A.	Serves a sugar sweetened beverage to a consumer, including consumer self-
service;

B.	Dispenses or allows a consumer to dispense a sugar sweetened beverage from a
vending machine or similar device; or

C.	Permits a consumer to remove sugar sweetened beverage from the premises of the
business.

Section 5.10.040 Calculations of Volume of Sugar Sweetened Beverages Served,
Provided or Traded

A.	A person subject to the fee imposed by Section 5.10.020 may calculate the volume
of sugar sweetened beverages consumed, provided or traded during a reporting
period as the amount of sugar sweetened beverages (or syrup, mix or similar
product used for the creation of sugar sweetened beverages) received by that
person from any source in the course of business in the City, less the amount
returned by the person to wholesalers or suppliers or otherwise removed form the
City without being served, provided or traded.

B.	A person who sells a sugar sweetened beverage prepared from a syrup, mix,
powder or similar base product shall report that use in terms of the volume of sugar
sweetened beverages that can be prepared from the syrup, mix or similar product.

Section 5.10.050 Exceptions

4

The fee imposed by Section 5.10.020 shall not apply to:

A.	Any person who is not subject to taxation by the City under the laws of the United
States or the State of California.

B.	Any person under the age of 18 with fewer than $500 in annual gross receipts.

C.	Any natural person who acquires sugar sweetened beverages solely i) for
consumption at his or her residence; (ii) for his or her own consumption; or (Hi) for
the consumption of members of his or her immediate family.

D.	A person subject to the fee imposed by Section 5.10.020 for a supply of a beverage
shall not be owing any amount under Section 5.10.020 for that supply if he or she
demonstrates by written proof to the Finance Director or his or her representative
that the fee has already been imposed by the City on the supply of the beverage in
question and paid by another person to the City in the course of distribution.

Section 5.10.060 Collection

A.	The fee imposed by Section 5.10.020 shall be due and payable when and as
provided in Chapter 5.08 of this Code for other business license taxes due from the
taxpayer and shall be calculated based upon the volume of sugar sweetened
beverages served, provided or traded during a reporting period.

B.	The City Council may, by ordinance, require one or more businesses to calculate
and pay the fee on a more frequent basis to ensure the effective enforcement of this
Chapter. Such an ordinance shall not constitute an increase of the tax.

Section 5.10.070 Enforcement

A.	Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, the fee imposed by Section 5.10.020
shall be administered as fees are imposed pursuant to Chapter 5.08 of this Code,
and without limitation, taxes imposed under 5.10.020 shall be subject to the same
penalties, appeals processes and other enforcement provisions set forth in Chapter
5.08.

B.	The Finance Director may issue regulations interpreting this Chapter to facilitate its
enforcement.

Section 5.10.080 Use of Proceeds

The use of proceeds of the fee imposed by Section 5.10.020 shall be deposited in the City’s

general fund and shall be available for any lawful municipal purpose.

Section 5.10.090 Declaration of Purpose

This Chapter is enacted solely to raise revenue for municipal purposes and is not intended for
the purpose of regulation. It shall apply to all persons engaged in business in the City. Fees
imposed by this Chapter are general taxes for purposes of Article XIII C of the California
Constitution. This Chapter does not authorize the conduct of any business or activity in the
City, but merely provides for the taxation of such businesses or activities as they occur.

Section 5.10.100 Not a Sale and Use Tax

The tax imposed by this Chapter is a tax upon the privilege of conducting business within the
City. It is not a sales, use or other excise tax on the sale, consumption or use of sugar
sweetened beverages”.

SECTION 2. Amendment of Ordinance. This Ordinance may be amended by the City
Council without a vote of the people except that voter approval shall be required for either of
the following as required by Article XIII C of the California Constitution: (i) any amendment that
increases the amount or rate of tax beyond the levels authorized by the voters when this
Ordinance was approved by the voters, or (ii) reductions of the tax rate below one (1) cent per
fluid ounce; or (iii) significantly reducing the base of business activity to which the tax applies.

SECTION 3. Inconsistent Provisions. Any provision of the El Monte Municipal Code or
appendices thereto inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance, to the extent of such
inconsistencies and no further, is hereby repealed or modified to the extent necessary to affect
the provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 4. Severability. If any section, paragraph, sub-paragraph, sentence, phrase,
word or definition contained in, or adopted by, this ordinance is for any reason held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining chapters, sections, paragraphs, sub-paragraphs,
sentences, phrases, words or definitions contained in, and adopted by, this ordinance. The
City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this ordinance and each and every
chapter, section, paragraph, sub-paragraph, sentence, phrase, words or definition not declared
invalid or unconstitutional without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance would be
subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 5. CEQA. This ordinance and the contemplated levy of the transactions and
use tax referenced herein is not a “project” within the meaning of the California Environmental
Quality Action codified as 21000 et seq. of the California Public Resources Code (“CEQA”)
because it will not result in a direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the
environment nor does it involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the environment.

SECTION 6. Effective Date: Majority Approval. If approved by a majority of the voters
voting on the question, this Ordinance shall be effective on January 1, 2013.

6

I hereby certify that this Ordinance was adopted by a vote of the People of the City of El
Monte, California on November 6, 2012

ATTEST:

Andre Quintero,

Mayor of the City of El Monte

Lorene Gutierrez

City Clerk of the City of El Monte

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) SS:
CITY OF EL MONTE	)

I, Lorene Gutierrez, City Clerk of the City of El Monte, do hereby certify that the above

and foregoing Resolution No._________________was	passed,	approved, and adopted by the City

Council of the City of Ei Monte, signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk at a

meeting of said City Council of the City of El Monte held on this ______________________day of

________________________2012, and that said Resolution was adopted by the following votes to

wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Lorene Gutierrez,

City Clerk of the City of El Monte