EXHIBIT "B”

FULL BALLOT TEXT

The full text of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

Shall the Pleasant Ridge Union Elementary School District be authorized to levy
a temporary special tax for a period of five years at an annual rate of $92.00 per parcel to
fund essential school programs and services including. Gifted and Talented Educational
Programs, Visual and Performing Arts, Counseling and Nursing Services, Libraries,
Technology, Equipment and Curriculum, Academic Programs, Student Athletics,
Auxiliary/Extracurricular Academic Programs, Physical Education?

The purpose of the measure is to preserve and continue to fund the
following specific programs and services:

a)	Continued availability of specialized Gifted and Talented Educational
Programs;

b)	Continued availability of sufficient numbers of classes in core and
elective subjects;

c)	Continued availability of Visual and Performing Arts classes and
programs;

g)	Continued availability of library programs and librarian services;

h)	Continued availability of physical education, athletics and co-curricular

programs;

i)	Continued availability of academic support programs;

j)	Continued availability of auxiliary educational programs and fieldtrips;

k)	Continued Counseling, Nursing, and Psychologist staffing;

l)	Continued availability of Site Safety and Support Services; and

The purpose of the measure also is to decrease the likelihood and/or magnitude of
layoffs of District teachers in the event of further State budget cuts.

Basis of Tax.

The tax shall be levied on all Parcels of Taxable Real Property in the District, as
defined below, on the following basis:

All Parcels

Rate of Ninety Two Dollars per parcel

By this parcel tax measure, the District seeks voter approval for a parcel tax that
will impose the parcel tax rates set forth above. The level of parcel taxes will be imposed

Page 2

commencing with the 2012-2013 tax year and will run for a period of five (5) years.

"Parcel of Taxable Real Property” is defined as any unit of real property in the
District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Nevada
County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office, as applicable depending on parcel location.
All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property
taxes are levied in any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in such year.

If more than one adjacent Assessor parcel constitutes a single parcel under
the Subdivision Map Act (California Government Code section 66410 et seq.), then the
parcel will be treated as a single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes of the
amount of tax due, and a claim for refund may be made by the property owner pursuant to
the claim procedures outline below.

An exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted on any parcel owned
by one or more persons who receive Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”) based on a
disability, regardless of age, and who occupy a parcel as a principal residence, upon
application for exemption ("SSI Disability Exemption"). Applications for such
exemptions must be made and delivered to the District during the period from May 15
through June 30 (or the next regular business day thereafter) of each year the parcel tax is
levied in accordance with the process established by the District and as described in the
attached Ballot Measure (Exhibit B hereto). The District shall annually provide to the
County Treasurer-Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax official a list of parcels
that the District has approved for the SSI Disability Exemption.

Claim Procedures

With respect to all general property tax issues and billing matters within its
jurisdiction, the Nevada County Tax Assessor, as applicable, or other appropriate County
tax official shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason,
and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the
levy of the special tax, including determination of the SSI Disability Exemption,
however, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. In the latter case, a claim
for a refund of the special tax shall comply with the following and any additional
procedures as established by the Board:

(a)	All claims shall be filed with the Superintendent of the District no later than
one year after the date the tax was paid. The claimant shall file the claim within this time
period and the claim shall be finally acted upon by the Board as a prerequisite to
bringing suit thereon.

(b)	Pursuant to Government Code section 935 (b) the claim shall be subject to
the provisions of Government Code sections 945.6 and 946.

(c)	The Board shall act on a timely claim within the time period required by
Government Code section 912.4.

(d)	The procedure described herein, and any additional procedures established by

Page 3

the Board, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking a refund,
reduction, or re-computation of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be
resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in
coordination with the County as necessary.

Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XI11B and applicable laws, the
appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum
collected by levy of this special tax.

Accountability Measures

The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes
identified above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into a fund,
which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the District. No later than
January 1 of each year while the tax is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the
Board a report detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of
any project authorized to be funded by this measure.

In addition, an independent Citizen's Oversight Committee shall be appointed by
the Board of Education to ensure that the special tax proceeds collected pursuant to this
measure are spent for their authorized purposes, and to report annually to the Board of
Trustees and the public regarding the expenditure of such funds.

Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that
every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters
would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof.
Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part of the measure or taxing
formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts of the measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain in full force and
effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District
because of the District's adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are
reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special
taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal
funding.

Page 4

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE K OF THE PLEASANT RIDGE UNION SCHOOL
DISTRICT TEMPORARY SPECIAL TAX MEASURE ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 6, 2012

Measure K is a Pleasant Ridge Union Elementary School District special parcel tax measure.
Measure K seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy an annual special parcel tax of
$92.00 for five years, commencing with the 2012/13 tax year, on each parcel of taxable real
property within the School District. Revenue from the special parcel tax will be used to fund the
following school programs and services:

•	Specialized Gifted and Talented Educational Programs.

•	Classes in core and elective subjects.

•	Visual and Performing Arts classes and programs.

•	Library programs and librarian services.

•	Physical education, athletics and co-curricular programs.

•	Academic support programs.

•	Auxiliary educational programs and fieldtrips.

•	Counseling, Nursing, and Psychologist staffing.

•	Site Safety and Support Services.

Measure K defines a parcel of taxable real property as any unit of real property within the
School District that receives a separate bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Nevada
County Treasurer/Tax Collector. If more than one adjacent Assessor parcel constitutes a single
parcel under California Government Code section 66410 et seq., then the parcel is treated as a
single parcel of taxable real property. Upon annual application to the District, an exception of
any tax assessment year may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons who
receive Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”) based on disability, regardless of age, and who
occupy the parcel as a principal residence.

Measure K provides that the proceeds of the tax shall be deposited into a fund, which will be
kept separate and apart from other funds of the District, and requires the District’s Board of
Education to appoint an independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee to ensure that proceeds are
spent for authorized purposes, and requires the oversight committee to report annually to the
Board of Education and the public regarding expenditure of the tax funding.

School districts have the authority to levy a special tax on real property located within the school
district upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to the
provisions of Article XIIIA, Section 4 and Article XIIIC, Section 2 of the California Constitution,
and sections 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 of the California Government Code.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the special tax will
be imposed annually for a period of five years, and collected by the Nevada County
Treasurer/Tax Collector at the same time, and in the same manner, as ad valorem property
taxes.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the School District will not be authorized to levy the special tax.

Dated: August 10, 2012

Alison Barratt-Green
County Counsel

Argument in Favor of Measure K

Voting "Yes" on Measure "K" PRESERVES the outstanding academic caliber of our own top-ranked
neighborhood schools which in turn preserves our property values and our local economy.

Over the last four years, the State of California has withheld $5.9 million in required funding OWED to our
local school district. Our local schools have weathered this deficient funding using responsible financial
management that combined targeted cost reductions, wage concessions, and prudent use of reserves.

However, four years of this reduced funding has nearly depleted our school district's savings. Only the additional
funding from this measure will prevent the dismantling of our music, GATE Advanced Studies, athletic, and
technology enrichment curriculums. Decades of investment developing these academic programs have earned
numerous state, national, and international awards of excellence.

These awards, and 20+ years of consistent high rankings within our County and State, have attracted families
and businesses to relocate to our community. Demand for excellent schools has contributed greatly to our
property values and to sustaining our local economy.

Though we're all struggling in this tough economy, allowing our local school district's academic programs to be
dismantled is not in the best interest of our students, our community, or our property values.

So when you vote for this measure, know that:

-NONE of these funds will go to the State. 100% of the funds will go to our local schools.

-NONE of these funds will go to salary increases, facility upgrades, or expansions.

-Responsible cost-saving measures will still be required and pursued by our schools.

-Our local and award-winning science, music, athletic, GATE Advanced Studies, and technology
curriculums will be PRESERVED.

Whether you have family enrolled in our schools or not, vote YES on K to preserve our schools, our
community, and our property values.

More information is found at www.YesOnMeasureK.info

/s/Mitchell J. Hanna

CEO, Sutter Auburn Faith Hospital

/s/Joann M. Rossovich
PRUSD Trustee

/s/Trudi Tucker
Retiree

/s/Dai Meagher, CPA
Chairman, Yes on "K" Committee

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE K OF THE PLEASANT RIDGE UNION SCHOOL
DISTRICT TEMPORARY SPECIAL TAX MEASURE ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 6, 2012

Measure K is a Pleasant Ridge Union Elementary School District special parcel tax measure.
Measure K seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy an annual special parcel tax of
$92.00 for five years, commencing with the 2012/13 tax year, on each parcel of taxable real
property within the School District. Revenue from the special parcel tax will be used to fund the
following school programs and services:

•	Specialized Gifted and Talented Educational Programs.

•	Classes in core and elective subjects.

•	Visual and Performing Arts classes and programs.

•	Library programs and librarian services.

•	Physical education, athletics and co-curricular programs.

•	Academic support programs.

•	Auxiliary educational programs and fieldtrips.

•	Counseling, Nursing, and Psychologist staffing.

•	Site Safety and Support Services.

Measure K defines a parcel of taxable real property as any unit of real property within the
School District that receives a separate bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Nevada
County Treasurer/Tax Collector. If more than one adjacent Assessor parcel constitutes a single
parcel under California Government Code section 66410 et seq., then the parcel is treated as a
single parcel of taxable real property. Upon annual application to the District, an exception of
any tax assessment year may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons who
receive Supplemental Security Income (“SSI") based on disability, regardless of age, and who
occupy the parcel as a principal residence.

Measure K provides that the proceeds of the tax shall be deposited into a fund, which will be
kept separate and apart from other funds of the District, and requires the District’s Board of
Education to appoint an independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee to ensure that proceeds are
spent for authorized purposes, and requires the oversight committee to report annually to the
Board of Education and the public regarding expenditure of the tax funding.

School districts have the authority to levy a special tax on real property located within the school
district upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to the
provisions of Article XIIIA, Section 4 and Article XIIIC, Section 2 of the California Constitution,
and sections 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 of the California Government Code.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the special tax will
be imposed annually for a period of five years, and collected by the Nevada County
Treasurer/Tax Collector at the same time, and in the same manner, as ad valorem property

taxes.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the School District will not be authorized to levy the special tax.

Dated: August 10, 2012	_________________________

Alison Barratt-Green
County Counsel