249

DEAN C. LOGAN

——\f\ Los Angeles County

gjjjj+j REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

J §1

fgj 12400 Imperial Highway

Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet
On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

PAGE

COUNTY MEASURES

B Shall an ordinance be adopted requiring producers of adult films to obtain 132	YES^O

a County public health permit, to require adult film performers to use-------------------------------

condoms while engaged in sex acts, to provide proof of blood borne 133	M0-*O

pathogen training course, to post permit and notices to performers, and making-----------------------------

violations of the ordinance subject to civil fines and criminal charges?

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

J Accelerating Traffic Relief, Job Creation. To advance Los Angeles 136	yes«*o

County’s traffic relief, economic/job growth by accelerating light rail/----------------------------

subway construction and airport connections, within five years, not 137	no->o

twenty; funding countywide freeway, bridge, safety and traffic flow---------------------------------------

improvements; fixing potholes; keeping senior, student, disabled fares low; Shall Los Angeles County’s
voter-approved one-half cent traffic relief sales tax continue without increase for another 30 years or until
voters decide to end it, with independent audits and keeping funds local?

SCHOOL

LITTLE LAKE CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

143

N0-*O

__	To improve the quality of local schools by renovating old and I 142 YES^O

p p	outdated classrooms, restrooms, upgrading science labs and

computer systems to keep pace with technology, improving student
safety and security systems, repairing, constructing, acquiring classrooms, school
facilities and equipment, and to remove hazardous materials and improve student safety and security systems
shall Little Lake City School District issue $18,000,000 in bonds at legal rates, with mandatory audits,
independent citizen oversight and all money staying local?

147

NO-

nTo provide up-to-date textbooks and instructional materials 1146
in English, math,	science and history, to continue funding

for art and music programs, to improve classroom technology,
to keep schools facilities clean, safe and well-maintained and to provide locally
controlled funding that the State can’t take away, shall Little Lake City School District authorize a levy of
$48 per parcel annually for five years with independent oversight, no funds for administrators’ salaries
and an exemption for senior citizens?

YES-K3

O

END OF BALLOT

06-076E

N LA 249-011

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE TT

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To provide up-to-date textbooks and instructional materials in English, math,
science and history, to continue funding for art and music programs, to improve
classroom technology for students, and to keep schools facilities clean, safe and
well-maintained, the Little Lake City School District proposes to establish an
education parcel tax for a period of five years, beginning July 1, 2013, at the rate
of $48 per year, on each assessor’s parcel located within the Little Lake City
School District, with an exemption available for senior citizens and recipients of
SSI for a disability, and to implement accountability measures in connection with
the temporary levy to ensure the funds are used to:

-	maintain up-to-date textbooks and instructional materials in English, math,
science and history; and

-	improve classroom technology;

-	continue funding for art and music programs;

-	keep schools facilities clean, safe and well-maintained.

The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate
account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of this special tax, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of land
which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Little Lake City School
District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
Los Angeles County Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that is otherwise
exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year
shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this education parcel tax, any such “Parcels” which are (i)
contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting an
application of the owners thereof by June 15 of each year to the District, be
treated as a single “parcel” for purposes of the levy of the education parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners of a
Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and
who are either (a) 65 years of age or older or (b) persons receiving Supplemental
Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from
the education parcel tax by submitting an application by June 15 of each year, to
the District.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905414=1

N LA 249-040

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE TT (Continued)

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Los
Angeles County Assessor/Tax Collector, or other appropriate County tax
officials shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any
reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters
specific to the levy of the education parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen
Exemption and the SSI Exemption and the classification of property for
purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and
binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT
SUPPORT

The collection of the education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset
any increase in local, state or federal government revenue sources that would

otherwise be available to the Little Lake City School District during the period of
the education parcel tax. In the event that the levy and collection does have such
an effect, the Little Lake City School District shall cease the levy or shall reduce
the education parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount
of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections
50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall
apply to the education parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes identified
above; (b) the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those
specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be
created into which the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited;
and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the
District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the
proceeds of the education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or
programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the
education parcel tax, as identified above.

PR-905414.2

N LA 249-041

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE TT

By John F. Krattli, County Counsel

Approval of Measure TT would authorize the Board of Education (“Board”) of
the Little Lake School District (“District”) to levy a special parcel tax (“Tax”) of
$48 per year, for five years, on any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially
within the boundaries of the District that receives a separate property tax bill.
For purposes of determining the tax, parcels which are contiguous, used solely
for owner-occupied, single family residence, and are identically owned, may be
treated as a single parcel by annually submitting an application to the District.

The Tax revenues shall only be applied for the purposes of maintaining
up-to-date text books and instructional materials in English, math, science and
history; improving classroom technology; funding art and music programs; and
keeping school facilities clean, safe and well maintained. No Tax proceeds shall
be used for administrators’ salaries or benefits.

An exemption may be granted on any owner-occupied, single-family residential
parcel to persons who are 65 years of age or older, or who received Supplemental
Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, by submitting annually an
application to the District.

The proceeds of the Tax shall only be applied to the specific purposes identified
in the Measure and shall be deposited into a separate, special account. An
annual written report shall be made to the Board showing the amount of funds
collected and expended from the proceeds of the Tax, and the status of any
projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the Tax.

The collection of the Tax is not intended to decrease or offset any State or
federal funding otherwise available to the District at any time during which the
Tax may be levied. In the event that the Tax has such effect, the District shall
reduce the Tax to an amount necessary to restore the decrease or offset of
funding.

The Taxes levied under this Measure shall be collected by the Treasurer and Tax
Collector at the same time and manner, and subject to the same penalties, as
general ad valorem property taxes.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-905414-3

N LA 249-042

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE TT

Our Little Lake schools are improving. Test scores are up and each one of our
local schools has been recognized for improved academic achievement. 5 out of 9
schools have been designated “Distinguished Schools.”

Unfortunately this progress is threatened by unprecedented state budget cuts
that have affected every family, child, school and classroom in our community.
Over the past five years our local schools have lost over 6 million in state
funding. As a result, programs in music and art have been reduced or eliminated,
textbooks have not been purchased and schools have cut back custodial services.

Measure TT has been placed on the ballot by a coalition of community members,
teachers, parents and business leaders to provide temporary emergency funds to:

-	Provide local funding to purchase up-to-date textbooks and instructional

materials

-	Improve classroom technology

-	Provide adequate custodial services to keep school facilities clean and well
maintained

-	Continue funding for art and music programs

The cost of Measure TT is modest, $4 a month for property owners. Seniors are
exempt. Every penny of Measure TT will stay in our community to benefit local
schools and children. No money can be spent on administrators.

Measure TT is a companion measure to Measure EE. While Measure EE will
provide funds to renovate schools, Measure TT will provide textbooks,
educational materials and funding for art, music and school maintenance.

Please vote YES on both Measures EE and TT.

SARA MENDEZ

Former Little Lake City School District Board Member

MARTHA HANAMAIKAI

Parent, Education Foundation & PTA Leader

LUIGI A. VERNOLA
Local Business Owner

MARIA GUTIERREZ

Teacher, Little Lake City School District & Local Resident
HILDA ZAMORA

Vice President, Little Lake City School District Board of Education

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-905414-4

N LA 249-043