ROSS VALLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE A	
Mk MEASURE A: To provide local funding the State cannot take away, preserve high quality educa- tion in reading, writing, math and science, educationally sound class sizes, school libr and music instruction, and to help attrac highly-qualified teachers, shall the Ross V District renew its existing parcel tax for years, increasing it by $149 per year, w used for administrators’ salaries and an « seniors, and requiring annual audits?	YES
	NO
	aries, and art X and retain alley School mother eight th no funds (eruption for

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE A

ROSS VALLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT

PARCEL TAX RENEWAL AND INCREASE TO
PRESERVE QUALITY OF PUBLIC EDUCATION
AND SERVICES

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
Ross Valley School District will be authorized to increase
the existing school parcel tax by One Hundred Forty-Nine
Dollars ($149) per parcel and renew and extend the parcel
tax for another eight (8) years beginning in fiscal year
2012-2013, with annual 4% escalation adjustment. The
proceeds of the tax may be used only for the puiposes set
forth in the Measure and not for administrative salaries,
and will be subject to oversight by an independent citi-
zens’ advisory committee appointed by the Board of
Trustees.

Exemptions will be available for individuals who have
attained the age of 65, as set forth in the Measure.

s/PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

Resolution #13-11-12
RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
THE ROSS VALLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT CALLING
FOR A JUNE 5, 2012 ELECTION TO RENEW CORE
ACADEMIC PROGRAMS PARCEL TAX
WHEREAS, the Ross Valley School District (the “Dis-
trict”) is devoted to maintaining the quality public educa-
tion; and

WHEREAS, local property values within the District are
related to the quality of education available in the Dis-
trict’s public schools; and

WHEREAS, the State is an unreliable partner when it
comes to funding education and funding for our District
has been reduced substantially in the past several years,
and future funding is projected to be even lower, and local
property tax collections have declined this year, and will
be inadequate to provide the level of support to the Dis-
trict’s educational programs that the residents of the Dis-
trict expect and the students need; and
WHEREAS, stable local funding is needed to maintain
our outstanding local schools; and
WHEREAS, the voters of the District previously autho-
rized an education parcel tax which expires on June 30,
2014, and unless renewed by voters, will result in a sub-
stantial reduction of educational programs; and
WHEREAS, Ar ticle XIIIA, Section 4 of the California Con-
stitution and Sections 50075 et seq., of the California Gov-
ernment Code permit a school district to renew a special
education tax for specified purposes and to levy a core aca-
demic instruction parcel tax following approval by at least
two-thirds of the voters voting upon the proposition; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of the
District proposes to renew the existing levy of a core aca-
demic programs parcel tax upon parcels of land within the
District for the purposes set forth in this Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the Board desires to apply all the proceeds of
the core academic programs parcel tax to the protection of
student programs and not for administrator salaries or ben-
efits; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires to seek a local core acade-
mic programs parcel tax because the revenues of such can
only benefit local District schools and cannot be taken by
the State of California or other school districts;
WHEREAS, the Board has conducted a public hearing in
connection with the proposed election regarding the
renewal of the core academic programs parcel tax prior to
the adoption of this Resolution;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board
of Trustees of the Ross Valley School District as follows:

Section 1. This Board finds and determines that the
foregoing recitals are true and correct.

Section 2. This Board hereby proposes to renew and
extend the levy of a core academic instruction parcel tax
to provide local funding the State cannot take away, pre-
serve high quality education, including:

•	Maintain math and science programs.

•	Maintain reading and writing programs;

•	Maintain educationally sound class sizes for kinder-
garten through eighth grade;

•	Maintain school libraries; and

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ANY OF

THE PROCEEDS OF THE CORE ACADEMIC PRO-
GRAMS PARCEL TAX BE USED FOR ADMINIS-
TRATORS’ SALARIES AND BENEFITS.

Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1 the
Board determines that the proceeds of the core academic
instruction parcel tax shall only be applied for the purpos-
es stated above.

Section 3. The existing core academic programs parcel
tax which expires on June 30, 2014 shall be renewed for
eight years from June 30, 2012 and increased by $149,
with annual 4% escalation adjustment, per year, assessed
against each Parcel.

This core academic programs parcel tax renews,
extends and replaces the qualified special parcel tax most
recently approved by the voters in June 7,2005.

As used herein, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of
land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries
of the District, for which the Assessor/Tax Collector of
Marin County, issues a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes; provided, however, that any such parcels
which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-
occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held
under identical ownership, may, by annually submitting an
application of the owners thereof by June 30 of any year
to the Board be treated as a single parcel for purposes of
the levy of this core academic programs parcel tax.

Section 4. Subject to voter approval as set forth below,
the core academic programs parcel tax shall be levied
commencing with the 2012-2013 fiscal year of the
District, and shall be collected with, and in the same man-
ner and subject to the same interest and penalties as, gen-
eral ad valorem taxes collected by the Marin County Tax
Collector. In accordance with the requirements of
Government Code Section 50075.3, the District shall cre-
ate a separate account into which the proceeds of the spe-
cial tax shall be deposited.

Section 5. The levy and collection of the core academ-
ic programs parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset
any increase in local, state or federal government funding
sources that would otherwise be available to the District at
any time during which the parcel tax may be levied. In the
event that the levy and collection of the core academic
programs parcel tax does have such an effect, the District
shall reduce the core academic programs parcel tax levy to
the extent of any such decrease or offset. Additionally, any
persons who are either (a) 65 years of age or older or (b)
receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability,
regardless of age, and the owner of a Parcel used solely for
owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, may
obtain an exemption from the levy of the core academic
programs parcel tax, by submitting annually an applica-
tion of such owners or persons, prior to June 30 of each
year, to the District.

Section 6. The Board shall provide in each year (pur-

suant to Section 7902.1 of the Government Code) for any
increase in the District’s appropriation limit as shall be
necessary to ensure that proceeds of the core academic
programs parcel tax may be spent for the authorized pur-
poses set forth in Section 2 above and Section 7 below.

Section 7. This Board hereby requests that the Marin
County Registrar of Voters submit the following measure
to the voters of the District and to print this entire Full
Ballot Text in the ballot pamphlet to be published for the
election scheduled for Tuesday, June 5,2012:

* * *

ROSS VALLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT
Core Academic Programs Parcel Tax Measure A
INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To provide local reliable funding for local schools that
cannot be taken by the State, protect programs which
improve student performance in reading, writing, math
and science, art and music instruction, attract and
retain highly qualified teachers, maintain educational-
ly sound class sizes and keep school libraries, with no
proceeds used for administrative salaries and benefits,
the Ross Valley School District (“District”) proposes to
renew and increase its existing core academic programs
parcel tax for a period of eight years from its current expi-
ration date (June 30,2014), increase the rate by $149 to a
total of $458.66 per parcel per year and maintain the pro-
visions for the annual 4% increase in the tax, beginning
July 1,2012, with an exemption available for senior cit-
izens and recipients of SSI for a disability, and to imple-
ment strict accountability measure, to ensure the funds are
used to:

•	Maintain math and science programs;

•	Maintain reading and writing programs;

•	Maintain educationally sound class sizes for kinder-
garten through eighth grade;

•	Maintain school libraries; and

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers.

The proceeds of the core academic programs parcel tax
shall be deposited into a separate account created by the
District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For puiposes of the core academic programs parcel tax,
the term “Parcel” means any parcel of land which lies
wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Ross Val-
ley $chool District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad
valorem property taxes from the Marin County Assessor/
Tax Collector. All property that is otherwise exempt from
or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in
any year shall also be exempt from the core academic pro-
grams parcel tax in such year.

For puiposes of this core academic programs parcel
tax, any such “Parcels” which are (i) contiguous, and (ii)
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by
submitting an application of the owners thereof by June 30
of each year to the District, be treated as a single “parcel”
for purposes of the levy of the core academic programs
parcel tax.

RVA-2

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND
SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section
50079 (b), any owners of a Parcel used solely for owner-
occupied, single-family residential puiposes and who are
either (a) 65 years of age or older or (b) persons receiving
Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless
of age, may obtain an exemption from the core academic
programs parcel tax by annually submitting an application
therefore, by June 30 of each year, to the District.

With respect to all general property tax matters within
its jurisdiction, the Marin County Assessor/Tax Collector,
or other appropriate county tax officials shall make all
final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any rea-
son, and that decision shall be final and binding. With
respect to matters specific to the levy of the core academ-
ic programs parcel tax, including the Senior Citizens
Exemption and the SSI Exemption and the classification
of property for purposes of calculating the tax, the deci-
sions of the District shall be final and binding.
REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER
GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the core academic programs parcel
tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in
local, state or federal government revenue sources that
would otherwise be available to the District din ing the
period of the core academic programs parcel tax. In the
event that the levy and collection does have such an effect,
the District shall cease the levy or shall reduce the core
academic programs parcel tax to the extent that such
action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset
in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the fol-
lowing accountability measures, among others, shall apply
to the core academic programs parcel tax levied in accor-
dance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the
core academic programs parcel tax shall be those purpos-
es identified above; (b) the proceeds of the core academic
programs parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific
purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account
shall be created into which the proceeds of the core aca-
demic programs parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an
annual audit and an annual written report shall be made to
the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the
amount of funds collected and expended from the pro-
ceeds of the core academic programs parcel tax and (ii) the
status of any projects or programs required or authorized
to be funded from the proceeds of the core academic
instruction parcel tax, as identified above.

The abbreviated text of the ballot proposition with
respect to the foregoing measure shall read as follows:
“PROTECTING QUALITY ROSS VALLEY
SCHOOL MEASURE.

To provide local funding the State cannot take away,
preserve high quality education in reading, writing, math
and science, educationally sound class sizes, school
libraries, and art and music instruction, and to help attract
RVA-3

and retain highly-qualified teachers, shall the Ross Valley
School District renew its existing parcel tax for another
eight years, increasing it by $149 per year, with no funds
used for administrators’ salaries and an exemption for
seniors, and requiring annual audits?”

Yes________ No_______________

The District’s Superintendent, or designee, is hereby
authorized and directed to make any changes to the text of
the measure, or to the abbreviated form of the measure, as
may be convenient or necessary to comply with the intent
of this Resolution, the requirements of elections officials,
and requirements of law.

Section 8. The measure set forth in Section 7 shall be
submitted to the voters of the District at an election to be
held on June 5,2012. If approved by at least two-thirds of
the voters voting on the measure, the measure shall take
effect on July 1,2012.

Section 9. This Resolution shall stand as the order to
the Marin County Registrar of Voters to call a mai I ballot
election within the boundaries of the District on June 5,
2012. This Board requests that the District election be con-
solidated with any and all elections to be held within the
boundaries of the District on June 5, 2012.

Section 10. The Board hereby requests that the Marin
County Registrar of Voters or other appropriate election
official of the County, take all actions which are necessary
or appropriate in connection with the election, including,
but not limited to, printing and mailing sample ballots,
arguments and applications for absentee ballots, canvass-
ing election returns and certifying the results of the elec-
tion to the Board. The Board hereby agrees to reimburse
Marin County in full for any services performed by the
County for the District upon presentation of an invoice to
the District.

Section 11. The Secretary of the Board is hereby autho-
rized and directed to deliver a copy of this Resolution to
the Marin County Superintendent of Schools and the
Registrars of Voters/Elections Department of Marin
County, as well as the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
of Marin County, not later than March 9,2012, and to give
notice of the election by causing both the Registrars of
Voters/Elections Departments to publish the text of the
measure and other items, not later than 15 days before the
date of the election. The Secretary of the Board is hereby
further authorized and directed to post a copy of this
Resolution on or near the doors of the District Office and
in three public places within the District for at least two
weeks before the date of the election.

Section 12. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause
of this Resolution is for any reason found to be invalid,
such section, subsection, phrase or clause shall be severed
from, and shall not affect the validity of, all remaining por-
tions of this Resolution which can be given effect without
the severed portion.

Section 13. The members of the Board are hereby
authorized, but not directed, to prepare and file with the
Marin County Registrar of Voters/Election Department, a
ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in
Section 7 hereof, within the time established by such
Department.

Section 14. Subject to two-thirds approval of the vot-
ers, the core academic programs parcel tax shall be col-
lected by the Marin County Tax Collector at the same time
and manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as
ad valorem property taxes collected by the tax collectors.
The tax shall bear interest at the same rate for unpaid ad
valorem property taxes until paid.

Section 15. The Board shall provide in each year (pur-
suant to Section 7902.1 of the Government Code) for any
increase in the District’s appropriations limit as shall be
necessary to ensure that proceeds of the core academic
programs special tax may be spent for the authorized pur-
poses.

Section 16. Subject to two-thirds voter approval and
prior to adoption of a resolution levying the qualified spe-
cial tax in any given year, this Board shall conduct a pub-
lic hearing on the matter. Notice of the time, date, and
place of healing shall be published pursuant to California
Government Code Section 54954.6. Following said hear-
ing the Board may adopt a resolution fixing the amount of
tax to be raised and the rates for each type of property. Any
tax levied shall become a lien upon the properties against
which taxes are assessed and collectible.

Section 17. The Superintendent shall, pursuant to Gov-
ernment Code Section 50075.3, file an annual report as
provided herein accounting for the core academic pro-
grams tax revenues collected and the manner in which
they have been spent.

Section 18. The officers of the District are, and each of
them acting alone is, hereby directed to take such other
actions and to execute such other documents as are neces-
sary to cany out the puiposes of this Resolution.

Section 19. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10400
the Board requests the governing body of any such other
political subdivision, or any officer otherwise authorized
by law, to partially or completely consolidate such election
and to further provide that the canvass be made by any
body or official authorized by law to canvass the returns of
the election, and that the Board consents to such consoli-
dation.

The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Board of
Trustees of the Ross Valley School District at a regular
meeting held on March 9, 2012 by the following vote:
AYES:	5

NOES:	0

ABSTAIN: 0
ABSENT: 0

s/CHRIS CARLUCCI
President, Board of Trustees
Ross Valley School District

ATTEST:

s/HEIDI KRITSCHER WELLER
Clerk, Board of Trustees
Ross Valley School District

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The Ross Valley School District provides students with an
exceptional education emphasizing math, science, reading
and writing, and the arts, preparing our children to succeed
in life. The District’s success in this regard has long been
a point of pride for San Anselmo and Fairfax. Our com-
munity has supported our schools with a local parcel tax
for over a decade.

During the past four years, the State of California has cut
funding to our schools by more than 20 percent, threaten-
ing the District’s ability to provide our children with the
quality education we value so highly. As a result of these
cuts, the District has come to rely even more heavily on
local parcel tax revenues to make up the shortfall between
State funding and the real cost of educating our children.
Our local parcel tax is scheduled to expire.

Without the renewal of the existing parcel tax, our chil-
dren would face a future of larger class sizes, significant
cuts to educational programs and opportunities, and the
erosion of the quality education that our community has
come to expect. The need for this local funding is absolute
and would not be diminished by Governor Brown’s No-
vember ballot measure, which only seeks to avoid further
State cuts.

Measure A revenues are dedicated solely and entirely to
operating schools here in San Anselmo and Fairfax; are
not subject to discretionary State funding cuts; are subject
to an annual audit; will not be used for administrators’
salaries; and represent an essential component of the Dis-
trict’s annual operating budget.

By voting “yes” on Measure A, we can, at least in part,
reduce the risk of having to lower the educational stan-
dards of our District. As always, seniors are eligible for an
exemption. Please vote YES on A - for our kids, and for
our community.
s/CHRIS CARLUCCI, M.D.

President, Ross Valley School District Board of Trustees

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A WAS
SUBMITTED.

RVA-4