

MEASURE Z2012
City of Solvang
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

If approved by the voters, Measure Z2012 would amend the Solvang
Municipal Code to increase the tax paid by temporary occupants of
rooms two percentage points. This measure would set the transient
occupancy tax rate at twelve percent (12%). At this rate, for example, a
stay in a hotel $100 in value would generate a tax of twelve dollars.
The tax is not imposed upon the hotel or motel owner but is imposed
upon the temporary, or '‘transient", occupant The owner of the hotel or
motel does have a duty to both collect the tax from the occupant and to
remit the tax to the City of Solvang.

This measure requires all proceeds of the tax to be deposited into the
City's General Fund to be used for such general municipal
governmental purposes as the City Council shall direct. Among such
purposes are police services, tourism related services, public bathroom
construction and maintenance, street and sidewalk construction,
maintenance and repair, pothole repair, and storm drain construction,
maintenance and repair. It is estimated that this increase will generate
Five Hundred Thousand ($500,000.00) or more additional revenue on
an annual basis from the visitors that will pay the tax.

The transient occupancy tax increase proposed by this measure will
only become effective if approved by a majority of those electors voting
on the measure.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure

/s/ Roy A. Hanley

City Attorney, City of Solvang

MEASURE Z2012
City of Solvang
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE

Tourism is Salvang’s major industry and provides over half of the city's
revenue for administration, services and maintenance. This industry
provides many of the services that we, the residents of Solvang enjoy.
The major tourism revenue comes from the Transient Occupancy Tax
(TOT). This tax is collected from guests by all inns, hotels, motels and
bed and breakfast owner/operators and is paid directly to the City of
Solvang. Since 1996 the TOT in Solvang has been a 10% tax on the
cost of a guestroom, which adds up to over 2.5 million dollars in annual
revenue to the general fund. Measure Z2012 will increase Solvang's
TOT to 12% of the cost of a guest room resulting in a projected increase
of $500,000 to the City annually.

The purpose of increasing TOT from 10% to 12% is to:

Offset decreased revenue from sales tax

Offset decrease revenue from property tax

Continue City funding of public safety, the library, parks and recreation
and tourism.

Promote Tourism.

VOTE YES FOR MEASURE Z2012

This is an investment in Solvang with NO cost to Solvang residents
(unless staying in a hotel room).

The undersigned authors of the argument in favor of Measure Z2012 at
the General Election for the City of Solvang to be held on November 6,
2012 hereby state that this argument is true and correct to the best of
their knowledge and belief.

Is! Hans Du us, Mayor Pro Tern
Is! Tara Wood, Council Member

MEASURE Z2012 City ofSolvang  AN ORDINANCE BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF SOLVANG AMENDING SECTION 3-2-2 OF CHAPTER 2 TITLE 6 OF THE SOLVANG MUNICIPAL CODE PERTAINING TO THE CITY OF SOLVANG TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX  SECTION 1. ENACTMENT  Amending Section 3-2-2 {Tax Imposed) of Chapter 2 of Title 3 of the Solvang Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:  3-2-2: TAX IMPOSED:  (a) For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of twelve percent (12%) of the rent charged or twelve percent (12%) of the value of the complimentary room calculated on the average monthly room rate. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city, which Is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel, if for any reason the tax is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the finance department may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the finance department.  SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY  If any provision of this Section or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the Section which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this Section are severable.  SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE  This Ordinance shall be in force and take effect ten (10) days after the official canvas of the Novembers, 2012 Election,	
	

