CITY OF DEL MAR
PROPOSITION H
BALLOT MEASURE - PUBLIC INFORMATION

PROPOSITION H

Shall the ordinance which proposes the regulation of medical marijuana compassionate use dispensaries and alters the City's	YES
sales tax laws be adopted?	NO

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Currently, the City of Del Mar ("City") does not regulate or tax medical marijuana compassionate use
dispensaries, nor does it authorize the operation of dispensaries. The proposed proposition would
regulate and tax medical marijuana dispensaries in the City. The proposition would allow dispensaries
(as defined in the proposition), to operate in the City according to the regulations and requirements set
forth in the proposition.

The regulations for dispensaries would include a number of operational requirements, including, but not
limited to, security requirements; adequate lighting; limited hours of operation; storage, packaging and
display requirements; consumption prohibitions; and age restrictions. The proposition would limit
where dispensaries may operate, generally prohibiting them from operating within a 600-foot radius of
accredited kindergarten through twelfth-grade schools or playgrounds or in any land use zone
permitting residential uses, and requires them to be spaced at least 1000 feet apart. The City's Planning
and Community Development Department would process and issue dispensary permits.

The proposed proposition also imposes a two and one-half (2-1/2%) percent sales tax on every
transaction of medical marijuana, which would be reduced to one percent (1%) if a statewide tax is
imposed on such transactions. The proposition also states that qualified patients, primary caregivers
and certain individuals associated with such dispensaries who comply with the ordinance and applicable
state laws may not be arrested or prosecuted by any law enforcement personnel.

A legal question exists as to whether the proposition's taxation provisions, which propose a unique City
tax on medical marijuana higher than the uniform sales tax rate imposed by California law, would
require the Board of Equalization to cease collecting all sales taxes in Del Mar.

Additionally, legal questions exist as to whether California and/or federal law allow for operation of
dispensaries in the manner authorized by the proposition, including: (1) because marijuana is illegal
under federal law, whether the City would be in violation of state and/or federal law by issuing
dispensary operating permits called for by the proposition; (2) whether City employees who issue
permits called for by the proposition might be prosecuted by the federal government for violating
federal criminal law; and (3) whether the proposition improperly purports to amend state criminal law
by altering the ability of law enforcement to arrest and prosecute individuals for violations of California
criminal law.

Finally, a legal question exists as to the accuracy and effect of representations in the proposition and the
circulation of the proposition, including representations regarding the residency of the proposition
proponent and the current state of the law relating to medical marijuana.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION H

Proposition H, REGULATION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA COMPASSIONATE USE DISPENSARIES, will allow
safe, regulated access to medical marijuana for qualified patients in the City of Del Mar by allowing
medical marijuana dispensaries, operating in full compliance with California State law.

In 1996, the majority of voters in California and in the City of Del Mar voted for the Compassionate Use
Act, which allowed patient access to medical marijuana. In 2010, the voters of Del Mar again chose to
defeat the black market and reaffirmed their desire for regulation and oversight of marijuana, by voting
overwhelmingly in favor of Proposition 19.

Despite the clear will of the public, there is still no safe access to medical marijuana in the City of Del
Mar.

Research from UC San Diego has shown medical marijuana to be an effective treatment for the effects
of cancer radiation therapy, debilitating arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and other pain conditions affecting
the large senior population in our City. Today, Del Mar patients are forced to use less effective and more
costly pharmaceuticals to manage their pain or to turn to black market dealers for their medicine.

Proposition H ensures the safety of patients and the community by including security requirements
including alarm systems, security cameras, lighting standards, and restricting hours of operation.

Proposition H ensure that medical marijuana dispensaries are located in appropriate areas. It prohibits
medical marijuana dispensaries in residential zones and areas where children congregate.

Proposition H requires a large buffer between dispensaries to allow patient access, while avoiding a
concentration of dispensaries in Del Mar.

Proposition H includes cost recovery fees to ensure that the safe access to qualified patients does not
become a financial burden on the city.

Join us in supporting patients and caregivers in Del Mar! Vote "Yes" on Proposition H.

Linda Strause, Ph.D.

Ex. Dir. Clinical Operations, Vical Inc.
Founding Chair, Ethics, SD Hospice,
Caregiver

Lori Saldana

Former Speaker Pro Tempore,
California Assembly

Charles R. Imes

Patient and Cancer Survivor

Leo Laurence, J.D.

Former Sheriff's Deputy

Speaker Law Enforcement Against Prohibition

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION H

No Marijuana Dispensaries in Del Mar. The ballot arguments for Proposition H are simply
whitewashing a black market drug.

One argument says research at UC San Diego showed marijuana to be an effective treatment for the
effects of a number of diseases, from cancer radiation therapy to arthritis. Not true. Low doses of
cannabis in combination with other pain-relief drugs that were administered under medical supervision
at UC San Diego showed evidence of short-term pain relief only in AIDS patients. The researchers noted
that serious adverse effects could result from the use of cannabis, including paranoia and depression in
the elderly.

In fact, the federal government has determined that marijuana is dangerous. That it has a "high
potential for abuse," "no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States" and "a lack
of accepted safety [standards] for use...under medical supervision."

Another argument for Proposition H mentions that security equipment will be installed to protect the
dispensaries. Of course you need security equipment since those dispensaries will be a magnet for illicit
drug users and thieves.

The proposition maintains there will be a large buffer between dispensaries. How large a buffer can
there be since proponents want to establish five to seven dispensaries within Del Mar's commercial
area?

This proposition isn't about compassionate treatment for seriously ill patients. It's about selling
marijuana for profit.

And doing that in Del Mar opens our community to the prospect of federal raids. It also exposes our city
employees to the threat of prosecution.

Say no.

Carl Hilliard, BA, LLM
Mayor, City of Del Mar
Del Mar City Council

Donald Mosier, M.D., Ph.D.
Professor, The Scripps Research
Institute, former Chair, Univ.
California AIDS Task Force

G. Richard Wheelock, M.D.
Del Mar Medical Properties

Paul Haydu, M.D.

Former ER Physician & Del Mar Resident

Bruce Bekkar, M.D.
Staff Physician

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION H

Do not be misled: The pot shop initiative is not about compassionate use of marijuana for seriously ill
patients.

This initiative is an attempt to sell a drug in Del Mar that both state and federal laws consider illegal.
According to the U.S. Attorney, if the measure is adopted and our city and its employees comply with
the mandatory provisions, Del Mar and Del Mar city employees will be at risk for aiding and abetting the
violation of state and federal laws. Specifically, the U.S. Attorney's July 17, 2012 letter to our city
attorney stated "City employees who conduct activities mandated by the Ordinance are not immune
from" civil and criminal liability. The Del Mar City Council rejected the proposed ordinance. The Council
does not want to put the City and its employees in a position of breaking the law.

The people behind the proposed ordinance show not only a lack of understanding of criminal and
regulatory rules, but also of basic sales tax. Their proposed 2 %% sales tax would create a burdensome
dual collection system for the city, restaurants and businesses that will actually cost more than the tax
itself.

We have already incurred the expense of putting this measure on the ballot as required by law. Our city
will face additional significant expenses if this measure is approved, everything from the cost of dealing
with public safety to court expenses.

The pot shop initiative is poorly written and seriously flawed. Rather than being focused on compassion,
it is centered on selling an illegal drug in our village making a profit doing so.

Vote NO. No pot shops in Del Mar.

Carl Hilliard, Mayor	Scott	Chipman,	Director

Del Mar City Council	San	Diegans	for	Safe	Neighborhoods

Terry Sinnott, Deputy Mayor
Del Mar City Council

Paul Chabot, Director
Coalition for a Drug Free California

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION H

Though opponents wish things differently, California voters approved medical marijuana in 1996 and the
legislature later enacted laws to permit storefront collectives to dispense medical marijuana. As a
California appeals court explained, California law "expressly authorized collective, cooperative
cultivation projects as lawful means to obtain medical marijuana under California law and immunized
the activities of such projects from both criminal sanctions and nuisance abatement actions." County of
Los Angeles v. Alternative Medicinal Cannabis Collective (2012).

This ordinance would not put Del Mar employees "at risk for aiding and abetting the violation of state
and federal laws". Dozens of California cities have regulations like Del Mar's proposed ordinance where
government employees issue licenses; none have been federally prosecuted. In Qualified Patients Ass'n
v. City of Anaheim (2010), the court held "governmental entities do not incur aider and abettor or direct
liability by complying with their obligations under the state medical marijuana laws."

In an apparent attempt to influence voters, federal lawyer Laura Duffy stated that if local employees
were to commit a drug crime they would not be granted federal "immunity". But employees would only
need "immunity" if they were violating drug laws. The ACLU called on Duffy "identify the specific
elements of the citizen-drafted initiative which you assert would require city employees to violate
federal law." Duffy has failed to do so.

The will of Del Mar voters need not be deferred by bullying from federal representatives or
prohibitionists.

Reaffirm the right to regulated access - "Yes" on Proposition H.

Alex Kreit	Judge James P. Gray (Ret.)

Professor at Thomas Jefferson School of Law	Retired Superior Court Judge

Head of San Diego City Medical Marijuana Taskforce	Libertarian Candidate for Vice President

A. Tom Horvath, Ph.D.
Addiction Treatment Expert
Practical Recovery

Compassionate Use Dispensary Regulation and Taxation

ORDINANCE

WHEREAS the California voters approved Proposition 215 in 1996 to ensure that seriously ill
Californians have the right to obtain and use cannabis for medical purposes and to encourage elected
officials to implement a plan for the safe and affordable distribution of medicine; and

WHEREAS the California State Legislature adopted Senate Bill 420, the Medical Marijuana Program
Act, in 2003 to help clarify and forther implement Proposition 215 in part by authorizing patients and
primary caregivers to associate within the State of California in order to collectively or cooperatively
cultivate cannabis for medical purposes; and

WHEREAS California courts upheld the legality of compassionate use dispensaries under state law,
including in People v. Hochandel, 176 CaLApp.4th 997, and People v. Urziceanu, 132 CaLApp.4th
747;

WHEREAS California courts have ruled that federal law does not preempt municipalities from
regulating compassionate use dispensaries under California and local law, including in Qualified
Patients Association v. City of Anaheim, 187 CaLApp.4th 997, County of San Diego v. San Diego
NORML, 165 CaLApp.4th 798, and

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Del Mar does hereby enact the following:

TITLE

These provisions of the Municipal Code shall be known as the Compassionate Use Dispensary
Regulation and Taxation Ordinance.

PURPOSE AND INTENT

It is the purpose and intent of the Compassionate Use Dispensary Restriction and Taxation Ordinance
to ensure safe access to medical cannabis in the City of Del Mar for qualified patients and their primary
caregivers in compliance with California’s Compassionate Use Act of 1996 and Medical Marijuana
Program Act of2003 through regulated compassionate use dispensaries in the City of Del Mar.

Extensive medical research, including research conducted at the University of California San Diego, has
shown that medical cannabis helps to alleviate the pain and suffering caused by diseases and ailments
including cancer, multiple sclerosis, chronic pain, arthritis, and HIV/A IDS wasting syndrome. To reduce
pain and suffering, the citizens of Del Mar desire that qualified patients who have received a
recommendation for the use of medical cannabis from a licensed physician shall have safe access to the
medical cannabis that gives them relief through regulated compassionate use dispensaries. These

compassionate use dispensaries shall be operated by collectives, cooperatives, or associations of
qualified patients and primary caregivers, who cultivate, exchange, and distribute medical cannabis in a
closed circuit in compliance with California law.

By regulating compassionate use dispensaries, the City of Del Mar will ensure safe access while
protecting public safety. This Ordinance will prevent the proliferation of dispensaries, ensure
dispensaries are safe distances from residences and areas where children gather, and require
dispensaries to obey strict operational standards. Also, this Ordinance will improve the focal economy
by creating jobs and generating tax revenue for the City of Del Mar.

DEFINITIONS

The following phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall be construed as defined in California Health and
Safety Code Sections 11362.5 and 11362.7:

“Person with an identification card;”

“Identification card;”

“Primary caregiver,” and
“Qualified patient.”

The following phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall be construed as defined below:

“Cannabis.” All parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the
resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin. It does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber
produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted
therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germinatioa

“Compassionate Use Dispensary” or “CUD.” means ten (10) or more, qualified patients, persons with
identification cards who associate, as an incorporated or unincorporated association, within the City of
Del Mar, in order to collectively or cooperatively provide medical cannabis from a licensed or permitted
location pursuant to this Chapter for use exclusively by their registered members, in accordance with
California Health and Safety Code Sections 11362.5 and 11362.7., et seq.

“Marijuana.” For the purposes of this Ordinance, marijuana shall mean the same as cannabis as
defined above.

‘Playground.” Any park or recreational area specifically designed to be used by children that has play
equipment installed, or any similar facility located on public or private school grounds, or on city,
county, or state park grounds, that is open to the public, as defined in California Health and Safety
Code Section 104495, subdivision (a)(1).

“School” Shall be as as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 11362.768, subdivision
(h).

OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS

(1)	Security Personnel Required. Compassionate use dispensaries must have at least one security guard
on duty during operating hours who possesses a valid guard card from the California Department of
Consumer Affairs. Members of a collective that operates a Compassionate Use Dispensary who
possess a valid guard card from the California Department of Consumer Affairs may serve as security
guards.

(2)	Security Cameras. For security purposes, the premises of compassionate use dispensaries shall be
monitored at all times by a closed circuit video recording system. The camera and recording system
must be of adequate quality, color rendition, and resolution to allow the ready identification of any
individual committing a crime on the premises. Recordings must be kept for at least thirty calendar days.

(3)	Alarm System The premises of compassionate use dispensaries shall have centrally-monitored
alarm systems.

(4)	Lighting to Ensure Safety. Interior building lighting, exterior building lighting, and parking area
lighting, if applicable, of compassionate use dispensaries must be in compliance with applicable
regulations, and must be of sufficient foot-candles and color rendition so as to allow the ready
identification at a distance of no less than twenty feet from any individual committing a crime on
premises.

(5)	Secured Storage of Medical Cannabis. Medical cannabis shall be stored in compassionate use
dispensaries with at least four walls and a roof or stored in a vault or safe, or other secured storage
structure. If the safe or vault weighs less than 450 pounds, it must be bolted to the floor or structure of
compassionate use dispensaries.

(6)	Hours of Operation. Compassionate use dispensaries may operate within the hours of 8:00 AM to
10:00 PM every day.

(7)	Exterior Signs. Signs displayed on the exterior of the premises of compassionate use dispensaries
shall conform to existing regulations.

(8)	Interior Signs. A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous location inside compassionate use
dispensaries, stating as follows: 'The diversion of marijuana for non-medical purposes is a violation of
State law. The use of marijuana may impair a person's ability to drive a motor vehicle or operate heavy
machinery. Loitering at the location of a medical marijuana dispensing collective for an illegal purpose is
prohibited by California Penal Code Section 647(h).”

(9)	No Alcoholic Beverages. No compassionate use dispensaries shall cause or permit the sale or
dispensing of alcoholic beverages for consumption on or off the premises.

(10)	No Cannabis Visible from Exterior of Compassionate Use Dispensaries. No cultivation of
cannabis, dried cannabis, or dried cannabis products may be visible by the naked eye from the exterior
of compassionate use dispensaries.

(11)	Packaging of Foods Containing Medical Cannabis. Any beverage or edible produced, provided,
or distributed at compassionate use dispensaries containing medical cannabis shall be so identified as
part of the packaging with a prominent and clearly legible warning advising that the product contains
medical cannabis and that is it to be consumed only by those with a physician's recommendation

(12)	Operation in Compliance with California and Local Law Required. Compassionate use
dispensaries must comply with state laws regarding medical cannabis, and they must ensure that only
qualified patients and designated primary caregivers who are members of the collective that operates the
compassionate use dispensary receive medical cannabis from the compassionate use dispensary.

(13)	Restrictions on Dispensing to Qualified Patients Under Eighteen Years of Age. Compassionate use
dispensaries may not dispense medical cannabis to anyone under the age of eighteen unless he or she is
a qualified patient and is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian in accordance with state law. The
parent or legal guardian shall sign a statement of feet that they are the parent or legal guardian of the
minor, and produce legal proof of parental or guardian status, such as a birth certificate or court order.

(14)	No Evaluations for the Use of Medical Cannabis Allowed on Premises. Compassionate use
dispensaries may not allow any licensed medical doctor or doctor of osteopathic medicine to provide
medical cannabis evaluations within the physical premises of the compassionate use dispensary.

(15)	No Consumption of Medical Cannabis Allowed on Premises. Compassionate use dispensaries
may not allow any consumption of medical cannabis within the physical premises of compassionate use
dispensaries.

(16)	Background Checks Required for Directors. Compassionate use dispensaries must obtain a
background check through the California Department of Justice, Office of the Attorney General, for all
directors, to verify that no director has been convicted in the past seven years of a serious felony, as
defined in California Penal Code section 1192.7, subdivision (c).

(17)	Community Relations Liaison Required. Compassionate use dispensaries shall designate a
community relations liaison who shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age. The individuals) designated
as the community relations liaison shall provide his or her name to the Planning and Community
Development Department to receive all complaints and be given by the directors) of the compassionate
use dispensary the responsibility and duty to address and immediately resolve all violations taking place
on the premises. The name and a telephone number for the community relations liaison for a
compassionate use dispensary shall also be made available to the public to address community

complaints and questions.

LIMITATIONS ON THE PERMITTED LOCATIONS OF COMPASSIONATE USE
DISPENSARIES

The location at which a compassionate use dispensary distributes medical cannabis must meet the
following requirements:

(1)	Appropriate Zones. The location must be in a Non-Residential Zone appropriate for Commercial,
Manufacturing, Industrial, or Retail Sales uses, including health care use;

(2)	Distance Restrictions for Compassionate Use Dispensaries from Schools. Compassionate use
dispensaries may not operate within a 600-foot radius from an accredited kindergarten through
twelfth-grade school, as measured in Health and Safety Code section 11362.768, subdivision (c).

If a kindergarten through twelfth-grade school begins operating within a 600-foot radius as measured in
Health and Safety Code section 11362.768, subdivision (c), of a compassionate use dispensary after
the compassionate use dispensary has received a business license from the City of Del Mar, the
compassionate use dispensary shall remain a lawful use of land under local law and shall remain eligible
to receive renewal of all applicable permits, including its business license.

(3)	Distance Restrictions for Compassionate Use Dispensaries from Playgrounds. Compassionate use
dispensaries may not operate within 600 feet, measured in a path along public thoroughfares, from the
perimeter of the suite or unit of a compassionate use dispensary to the boundary of a playground. The
boundary of a playground shall be defined by the edge of the material surrounding the playground, such
as a fence, concrete, or wood, or it shall be defined by the end of the groundcover for the playground,
such as grass, sand, or graveL

If a playground begins operating within 600 feet, measured in a path along public thoroughfares, from
the perimeter of the suite or unit of a compassionate use dispensary to the boundary of a playground,
after the compassionate use dispensary has received a business license from the City of Del Mar, the
compassionate use dispensary shall remain a lawful use of land under local law and shall remain eligible
to receive renewal of all applicable permits, including its business license.

(4)	Distance Required Between Compassionate Use Dispensaries. Compassionate use dispensaries
may not operate within 1000 feet of each other, as measured in a path along public thoroughfares from
the perimeter of the suite or unit of the compassionate use dispensaries.

COMPASSIONATE USE DISPENSARIES SHALL BE REGULATED BY THE CITY OF
DEL MAR’S PLANNING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

(1)	Requirements to Receive a Compassionate Use Dispensary Permit. All Compassionate Use

Dispensaries must seek and receive a Compassionate Use Dispensary Permit from the Planning and
Community Development Department of the City of Del Mar. The requirements for receiving this
permit are as follows:

A.	The intended proposed physical location of the compassionate use dispensary complies
with the provisions of this Ordinance;

B.	The applicant has demonstrated a plan to comply with all of the operational
requirements set forth in this Ordinance; and,

C.	No director of the dispensary-applicant collective has been convicted of a serious
felony, as defined in California Penal Code section 1192.7, subdivision (c), in the past seven years.

If all of these requirements are met, the Planning and Community Development Department of
the City of Del Mar must issue the Compassionate Use Dispensary Permit.

(2)	City of Del Mar Planning and Community Development Department Shall Develop the
Compassionate Use Dispensary Permit Application Process Promptly After this Ordinance Goes into
Effect. The Planning and Community Development Department shall formally develop and put into
effect the permit application process set forth in this Section of this Ordinance within forty-five (45)
working days after when this Ordinance goes into effect.

(3)	City of Del Mar Planning and Community Development Department Shall Grant or Deny All
Applications for Registry Within Fifteen Days of Sub mission. The City of Del Mar Planning and
Community Development Department shall process and grant or deny all applications for
compassionate use dispensary permits within fifteen (15) working days of when applications are
submitted. If the Planning and Community Development Department determines within that fifteen
working days that the permit application is incomplete, the Planning and Community Development
Department shall immediately notify in writing the permit applicant of such feet and the reasons
therefore, including any additional information necessary to render the application complete. Such
writing shall be deposited in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, immediately upon determination that the
application is incomplete. The applicant shall be permitted sixty (60) working days from when the
writing informing the applicant that the application is incomplete is deposited in the U.S. mail to amend
the application or submit supplemental information. Within fifteen (15) working days following the
receipt of an amended application or supplemental information, the Planning and Community
Development Department shall again determine whether the application is complete in accordance with
the provisions set forth above. Evaluation and notification shall occur as provided herein until such time

as the application is found to be complete.

COMPASSIONATE USE DISPENSARIES SHALL BE ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE A
BUSINESS LICENSE FROM THE CITY OF DEL MAR

After receiving a Compassionate Use Dispensary Permit from the Planning and Community
Development Department of the City of Del Mar, compassionate use dispensaries shall be eligible to
apply for and receive a business license from the City of Del Mar.

FEES CHARGED BY THE CITY OF DEL MAR SHALL BE FOR COST RECOVERY
ONLY

All fees charged to implement this Ordinance by the City of Del Mar shall be for cost recovery only.

ADDITIONAL SALES TAX IMPOSED TO BENEFIT THE GENERAL FUND OF THE

CITY OF DEL MAR

(1)	Two and One-Half Percent Sales Tax Imposed on Every Transaction of Medical Cannabis.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, and in addition to the usual state and focal sales
tax imposed on every retail transaction in the City of Del Mar, for transactions at compassionate use
dispensaries involving medical cannabis, an additional tax of two and one-half percent (2.5%) shall be
imposed, so long as the State of California does not impose any sales or excise tax on every retail
transaction involving medical cannabis beyond the standard sales tax for all retail transactions.

(2)	Reduction if Statewide Sales or Excise Tax Imposed on Transactions Involving Medical Cannabis.

If the State of California imposes a sales or excise tax on every retail transaction involving medical
cannabis in addition to the usual state and focal sales tax imposed on every retail transaction in the City
of Del Mar, before this Ordinance goes into effect, simultaneous with when this Ordinance goes into
effect, or after this Ordinance goes into effect, the additional tax imposed by this Ordinance on every
retail transaction involving medical cannabis shall be reduced to one percent (1.0%).

(3)	Allocation to General Fund. All revenues collected pursuant to this Ordinance shall be deposited in
the General Fund of the City and be used for general governmental purposes as the City Council may
from time to time provide in accordance with the Municipal Code of the City of Del Mar and the City
Council’s Annual Appropriation Ordinance.

COMPASSIONATE USE DISPENSARIES. QUALIFIED PATIENTS. AND PRIMARY
CAREGIVERS THAT.COM PLY WITH STATE AND LOCAL LAW.SHALL NOIRE
SUBJECT TO ARREST OR PROSECUTION

Qualified patients, primary caregivers, and dispensary directors, officers, managers, employees, agents,
and volunteers who comply with California’s medical marijuana laws and the laws of the City of Del
Mar including this Ordinance are not in violation of any focal or state law. Thus, they shall not be subject

to arrest or prosecution if they come into contact with law enforcement. Further, law enforcement shall
not seize any dried cannabis or cannabis plants in their possession.

SEVERABILITY

If any provision of the Compassionate Use Dispensary Regulation and Taxation Ordinance, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid or unenforceable, that invalidity
or unenforceability shall not affect all of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance that can be given
effect without the invalid portion or application; and to this end, the provisions or applications of this
Chapter are severable.