RESOLUTION NO. 2012-139

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF POMONA

ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OFTHE

CITY OF POMONA A CERTAIN INITIATIVE MEASURE RELATING TO

THE ENACTMENT OF A SPECIAL TAX FOR LIBRARY SERVICES, AT

THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY,

NOVEMBER 6, 2012, AS CALLED BY RESOLUTION NO. 2012-84

\VH ERE AS, ihe City Council (the "Council”) of the City of Pomona (the "City”). County of
Los Angeles, State of California is authorized to impose a special lax for library service pursuant to
Government Code sections 53717-53717.6; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt this resolution setting an election for the
November 2012 ballot; and

WHEREAS, the City has an interest in providing adequate funding for its library sendees to
ensure that there is sufficient staffing and equipment to service City residents and members of the
public; and

WHEREAS, the City General fund has experienced a decrease in revenues causing the
reduction in library services and existing revenues will be insufficient to fund such services; and

WHEREAS, the Library Board of Trustees has recommended that the City Council place a
measure on the November 6,2012 ballot fora Special Library Tax ofS38 per parcel, which includes
a provision that the tax be annually indexed for inflation to the CPI in subsequent years, and that the
library services be offered at least 3S hours per week spread over at least five days per week;

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Constitution articles XIII A, section 4, XIII C, section
2(b), XIII D, section 3(a), California Government Code sections 50075 elseq., 53722, and 53724, no
local government may impose any new, or extend or increase any existing special parcel tax unless
and until that tax is submitted to the electorate and approved by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of
the qualified electors voting in the election; and

WHEREAS, Article XIII B of the California Constitution places an annual limitation upon
appropriations from proceeds of taxes by each local government of the State of California; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt a new special parcel tax to provide adequate
funding for its library services and to adopt a new appropriations limit; and

WHEREAS, the Council has the authority to place propositions on the ballot to be
considered at a regular or special election of the City; and

Resolution No. 2012-139
Page 1 of 7

WHEREAS, the Council has determined to authorize the submittal to the voters on
November 6, 2012, a ballot measure to such qualified electors of the City to (i) adopt a new special
parcel tax at the rate of S3S.00 for all parcels and/or residential units within the City commencing
July 1,2013 and authorize annual increases for inflation to such special parcel tax; and (ii) establish
an appropriations limit for the City; and

WHEREAS, the ballot proposition and the terms of approval, collection and use of the
special parcel tax are described and provided for in the ordinance to be considered by the qualified
voters, attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Ballot Ordinance”) and by this reference made an operative
part hereof, and in accordance with all applicable laws; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that under CEQA Guidelines 15060(c)(2) and 15378(b)(2)
and (b)(4), the special parcel tax does not constitute a project under CEQA and therefore no further
CEQA review is required.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of Pomona as
follows:

SECTION 1. Recitals. The Council hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals
are true and correct, are incorporated herein and by this reference made an operative part hereof.

SECTION 2. Calling and Giving Notice of Election. The Council hereby calls and gives
notice of a general election to be held on November 6, 2012 in the City of Pomona, County of Los
Angeles. The City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of
the election as necessary', in the time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 3. Submission of Ballot Measure. Pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the
California Constitution, Government Code sections 50077, 53970 et seq., 53722, and 53724, the
Council hereby orders the Ballot Ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit A to be submitted to the
qualified voters of the City at the general election to be held on November 6, 2012, and requests the
Registrar of Voters of Los Angeles County (the “Registrar of Voters”) to conduct the’ general
election, at which it shall submit to the qualified voters of the City the measure as set forth in Section
4 hereof and the Ballot Ordinance set forth in Exhibit A hereof.

SECTION 4. Ballot Measure. The Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does hereby
order that the ballot measure shall be presented and printed upon the ballot submitted to the qualified
voters in the manner and form set forth in this Section 4. On the ballot to be submitted to the
qualified voters at the general election to be held on November 6, 2012, in addition to any other
matters required by law, there shall be printed substantially the following:

MEASURE: ADOPTING A SPECIAL LIBRARY PARCEL	
TAX : To provide revenue dedicated to the City of Pomona Library	YES
sendees, and operation of the Library no fewer than 3S hours per week,	
shall the City of Pomona ordinance adopting a special parcel tax of	
S3S.00/parcel and/or residential unit, providing for annual adjustments	
commencing July 1,2013, be approved by the voters?	NO

Resolution No. 2012-139
Page 2 of7

SECTION 5. Specific Purposes. The specific purposes of ihe special parcel lax and ihe
annual increases thereof are lo pay for library services provided in the City no fewer than 3S hours
per week over five days per week, including, but not limited to, the cost of obtaining, furnishing,
operating, and maintaining equipment, and paying the salaries, benefits, and all other necessary and
related expenses of library personnel, equipment and facilities as deemed necessary by the Council or
as required by law, regulation or contractual obligation of the City, and any incidental expenses
incurred in the administration of the tax, including, but not limited to, the costs of the election, and
the cost of collection. Such library services shall be required to be provided by the City no fewer than
five days per week. The proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be used only for the specific purposes
identified herein. The proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be deposited in a special fund, to be
created and maintained by the City.

SECTION 6. Accountability Measure. If the ballot measure authorizing the City’s special
parcel tax for library services is approved by the qualified voters of the City, for so long as any
proceeds of the special parcel tax remain unexpended, the City Finance Director shall cause a report
to be prepared by an independent auditor and to be filed with the Council no later than December 31
of each year, commencing December 31,2014, stating (1) the amount of special parcel tax revenues
collected and expended in such year; (2) the status of any projects or description of any services or
programs funded from proceeds of the special parcel tax; and (3) evidence of library services being
provided at least 38 hours per week over at least 5 days per week.. The report may relate lo the
calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Finance Director shall determine,
and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine
report to the Council.

SECTION 7. Annual Report. If the ballot measure authorizing the City’s special parcel tax
for library services is approved by the qualified voters of the City, the City shall annually adopt a
written report which shall contain a description of each lot or parcel of taxable property subject to the
special parcel tax, the amount of the special parcel lax for each lot or parcel for each fiscal year, and
the basis and schedule for the special parcel tax authorized pursuant to the Ballot Ordinance attached
hereto as Exhibit A and approved by the qualified voters of the City. For purposes of the special
parcel tax, “taxable property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in the City which receives
a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Treasurer-Tax Collector of Los Angeles
County. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property
taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the special parcel tax in such year. The Los Angeles
County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel from taxation
shall be final and binding for the purposes of the special parcel tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge
the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a
misclassification of property pursuant to section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of the special parcel tax shall
follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and
Taxation Code. In the event that the City reduces library hours below 38 hours per week, except in
the event of a natural disaster or other state of emergency declared by the City Council preventing the
operation of the library services, the City shall not levy the special parcel tax until such time the level
of services are restored.

SECTION 8. Computation and Collection of Special Parcel Tax. If the ballot measure
authorizing the City’s special parcel tax for library services is approved by the quali Tied voters of the

Resolution No. 2012-139
Page 3 of 7

Cily, ihe City Finance Director or his/her authorized designee or employee is hereby authorized and
directed each fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year 2013-2014, to determine the special parcel
tax amount to be levied for the next ensuing fiscal year for each taxable parcel of real property within
the City, in the manner and as provided in accordance with Ballot Ordinance attached hereto as
Exhibit A and the authorizations set forth therein, including the annual increases for inflation to such
special parcel tax. The special parcel tax shall be collected on behalf of the City by the County of
Los Angeles in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as, or with, other charges and
taxes fixed and collected by the City, or by the County on behalf of the Cily. The City Finance
Director is hereby authorized and directed to provide all necessary information to the Treasurer-Tax
Collector of Los Angeles County to affect proper billing and collection of the special parcel tax, so
that the installments of the tax shall be included on the secured property tax roll of Los Angeles
County. Unless otherwise required by the City Council, no Council action shall be required to
authorize the annual collection of the special parcel tax as herein provided.

SECTION 9. Interest and Penalties. If the ballot measure authorizing the City’s special
parcel lax for library services is approved by the qualified voters of the City, the special parcel tax
shall be collected in the same manner as ordinary ad valorem taxes are collected provided, however,
that the City Council may authorize other appropriate methods of collection of the special parcel tax
by appropriate resolution(s). The special parcel tax shall have the same lien priority, and be subject
to the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in cases of delinquency, as provided for ad
valorem taxes.

SECTION 10.	Election Procedures.

a.	Pursuant to the requirements of Elections Code section 4000 et seq., the Council
hereby requests the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los Angeles to conduct a general election
for the proposed ballot measure.

b.	The election on the ballot measure shall be held and conducted as provided for herein.
In all particulars not prescribed in this Resolution, the election shall be held as provided by law for
the holding of City elections, and otherwise in accordance with the Elections Code, or as determined
by the Registrar of Voters in accordance with the Elections Code.

c.	The Board of Supervisors of Los Angeles County is hereby requested to instruct and
permit the Registrar of Voters to render all sendees to the City as needed relating to the general
election on the ballot measure, and the City hereby agrees to reimburse the county in full for the'
sendees performed, upon presentation of a bill to the City. The Board of Supendsors of the County
of Los Angeles is authorized to canvas the returns of that election with respect to the votes cast in the
City and certify the results to the Council. The City recognizes that additional costs will be incurred
by the County by reason of the general election measure and agrees to reimburse the County for all
costs. The City Clerk is directed to file a certified copy of this Resolution, including the Ballot
Ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit A, with the Board of Supendsors of Los Angeles County and
the Registrar of Voters of Los Angeles County.

d.	The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cooperate with the Registrar of
Voters and to follow the procedures and meet all deadlines established by the Registrar of Voters.

e.	At the next regular meeting of the Council occurring after the returns of the election
for the ballot measure have been canvassed and certified, the Council shall cause to be entered in its

Resolution No. 2012-139
Page 4 of 7

minutes a statement of the results of the election.

SECTION 11. Arguments and Analysis.

a.	Pursuant to Elections Code section 9316, the City Clerk shall fix and determine a
reasonable dale prior to the election for the submission to the City Clerk of an argument in favor of
and against the ballot measure, and additional rebuttal arguments pursuant to Elections Code section
9317. Direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred words and shall be signed by not more than
five persons.

b.	Pursuant to Elections Code section 9317, when the City Clerk has selected the
arguments for and against the ballot measure, which will be printed and distributed to the voters, the
City Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the ballot measure to the authors, if any, of
the arguments against, and copies of the argument against the ballot measure to the authors, if any, of
the arguments in favor. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the direct
arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct argument, which it seeks to
rebut.

c.	The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the ballot measure, not to
exceed three hundred words, showing the effect of the measure on existing law and the operation of
the ballot measure.

SECTION 12.	Placement	on the Ballot. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and

directed to take all steps necessary to place the ballot measure on the ballot and to cause the ballot
measure to be printed and shall act as the filing authority for arguments. The full text of the Ballot
Ordinance shall be printed in the voter pamphlet, and a statement shall be printed in the ballot
pursuant to Section 9312 of the Elections Code advising voters that they may obtain a copy of this
Resolution, the Ballot Ordinance and/or ballot measure, at no cost, upon request made to the City
Clerk.

SECTION 13.	Notice.	Notice of the time and place of holding the election is hereby

given, and the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give such further or additional
notice, in the time, form and manner required by law. The Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to
publish any further or additional notice as required by law.

SECTION 14.	Delivery	of	Resolution	and	Ballot	Ordinance	to	County. The Council

directs the City Clerk to deliver copies of this Resolution, including the Ballot Ordinance attached
hereto as Exhibit A, to the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los Angeles and to the
Registrar of Voters of the County of Los Angeles.

SECTION 15.	Severability.	If	the	ballot	measure	authorizing	the	City’s special parcel

tax for library sendees is approved by the qualified voters of the City, the special parcel tax shall not
apply to any person, entity, or property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the City to
impose the tax herein provided. If for any reason any provision of this Resolution, the Ballot
Ordinance, or the application thereof is found to be invalid, or if the special parcel tax is found
inapplicable to any particular parcel within the City by a Court ofcompetent jurisdiction, the balance
of this Resolution, the Ballot Ordinance and the application of the special parcel tax to the remaining
parcels within the City shall not be affected and, to this end, the provisions of this Resolution and the
Ballot Ordinance are severable.

Resolution No. 2012-139
Page 5 of 7

SECTION 16.	Successors. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Ballot

Ordinance, if approved by the qualified voters of the City, and its special tax authorization and
authority shall be binding upon any successors in interest to the City or any successors in interest to
the City’s library service functions.

SECTION 17.	Effective Date of Special Tax. Pursuant to California Constitution

article X1LI C section (2)(d) and California Government Code section 53724, if two-thirds of the
qualified voters voting in the election on the Proposition to adopt the Ballot Ordinance authorizing
the special parcel tax for library services, attached hereto as Exhibit A, vote in favor of the adoption
of such Proposition, the provisions regarding the proposed special parcel tax as set forth therein shall
be deemed valid and binding. The proposed special parcel tax as set forth in the Ballot Ordinance
shall be considered as adopted upon the date that the vote is declared by the Council, and shall go
into effect July 1,2013.

■%

SECTION 18.	'	Effective Date of Appropriations Limit. Pursuant to California

Constitution article XIII B section 4, if a majority of the qualified voters voting in the election on the
Proposition to establish the appropriations limit for the City vole in favor of the adoption of such
Proposition, the appropriations limit authorized thereto shall be valid and binding for a period of four
years. The appropriations limit shall be considered as adopted upon the date that the vole is declared
by the Council, and shall go into effect ten (10) days after that date.

SECTION 19.	CEQA. Special tax monies raised pursuant to the Ballot Ordinance are

exempt from environmental analysis under the California Environmental Quality Act pursuant to
Public Resources Code Section 210S0 (b)(S) since the proceeds of the special tax will be used for:
(a) meeting operating expenses, including employee wage rates and fringe benefits; (b) purchasing or
leasing supplies, equipment or materials; (c) meeting applicable financial reserve needs and
requirements; and (d) obtaining funds for capital projects necessary to maintain service within
existing service areas.

SECTION 20.	Resolution.	This	Resolution	shall	take	effect immediately upon its

adoption. This Resolution shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within ten (10)
days ofits adoption.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED THIS 6TH DAY OF AUGUST 2012.
ATTEST:	C rL^BfO MO N	A;

Marie Michel Macias, City Clerk

Elliott Rothman. Mavor

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

		/ T> i o K i  fie #>o l—i c-17H /TTFor-y^n PcA-
Arnold M. Al\j		are^Glasman, City Attorney

Resolution No. 2012-139
Page 6 of 7

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
CITY OF POMONA

I, MARIE MICHEL MACIAS, CITY CLERK of the City of Pomona do hereby certify that
the foregoing Resolution was adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Pomona
held on the 6th clay of August, 2012 by the following vote:

AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS: Soto, Rodriguez, Carrizosa, Lantz, Escobar, Rothman
NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS: None
ABSENT: COUNCILMEMBERS: Atchley
ABSTAIN: COUNCILMEMBERS: None

Marie Michel Macias, City Clerk

Resolution No. 2012-139
Page 7 of 7

EXHIBIT “A”

ORDINANCE NO._________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF POMONA ADOPTING
A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX FOR LIBRARY SERVICES

WHEREAS, the City Council (the "Council") of the City of Pomona (the "City”).
County of Los Angeles. State of California is authorized to impose a special tax for library
service pursuant to Government Code sections 53717-53717.6; and

WHEREAS, the City has an interest in providing adequate funding for its library
services to ensure that there is sufficient staffing and equipment to sendee City residents and
members of the public; and

WHEREAS, the City General fund has experienced a decrease in revenues causing the
reduction in library services and existing revenues will be insufficient to fund such services; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to (i) adopt a new special parcel tax at the rate of $38.00
for all parcels and/or residential units within the City commencing July 1. 2013 and authorize
annual increases for inflation to such special parcel tax; and (ii) establish of an appropriations
limit for the City; and

WHEREAS, the new special parcel tax will be used for the purpose of providing funding
for the City's library sendees; and

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF POMONA, CALIFORNIA, DO ORDAIN

AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1 Recitals. The Recitals set forth above are incorporated herein and by this
reference made an operative part hereof.

Section 2. Special Parcel Tax for Library Services. There is hereby adopted and
established for the City a special parcel tax. The specific purposes of the special parcel tax and
the increases thereof are to pay for library services provided in the City no fewer than 38 hours
per week over five days per week, including, but not limited to. the cost of obtaining, furnishing,
operating, and maintaining equipment, and paying the salaries, benefits, and all other necessary
and related expenses of library personnel, equipment and facilities as deemed necessary by the
Council or as required by law, regulation or contractual obligation of the City, and any incidental
expenses incurred in the administration of the tax, including, but not limited to, the costs of the
election, and the cost of collection. Such library services shall be required to be provided by the
City no fewer than five days per week. The proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be used only
for the specific purposes identified herein. The proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be
deposited in a special fund, to be created and maintained by the City.

Resolution No. 2012-139
Page 1 of3

Section 3. Special Account. The proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be deposited
in a special account, created and maintained by the City, and used only for the specific purposes
identified in Section 2 hereof.

Section 4. Accountability Measure. For so long as any proceeds of the special parcel
tax remain unexpended, the City shall cause a report to be prepared by an independent auditor
and filed with the City Council no later than December 31 of each year, stating (i) the amount of
special parcel tax proceeds collected and expended in such year; (ii) the status of any projects or
description of any services or programs funded from proceeds of the special parcel tax; and (iii)
evidence of library sendees being provided at least 38 hours per week over at least 5 days per
week. In the event that the City reduces library hours below 38 hours per week, except in the
event of a natural disaster or other state of emergency declared by the City Council preventing
the operation of the library sendees, the City shall not levy the special parcel tax until such time
the level of sendees are restored

Section 5. Application of Special Parcel Tax. The special parcel tax shall be
assessed to the owner of each parcel within the City, unless the owner is by law exempt from
taxation, in which case, the tax imposed shall be assessed to the holder of the possessory interest
in such parcel, unless such holder is also by law exempt from taxation.

Section 6. Rate and Imposition of Special Parcel Tax. The special parcel tax shall be
levied each year, commencing July 1, 2013, on all taxable parcels of property, improved or
unimproved, within the boundaries of the City, at the maximum rate of S38.00 per parcel and/or
residential unit per year. Provided, however, such rate shall be adjusted annually for inflation.
The maximum Library Special Tax rate is equal to the initial base year amount adjusted annually
each July 1, beginning on July 1, 2014, by the percent change in the Consumer Price Index for
All Urban Consumers, Los Angeles, Riverside, and Orange Counties, for the 12-month period up
to January 1 of the adjustment year. Yearly Consumer Price Index adjustments shall not exceed
five percent (5%) or less than zero percent (0%) for any single year.

Section 7. Severability. The special parcel tax shall not apply to any person, entity,
or property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the City to impose the lax herein
provided. If for any reason any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof is found to
be invalid, or if the special parcel tax is found inapplicable to any particular parcel within the
City by a Court of competent jurisdiction, the balance of this Ordinance and the application of
the special parcel tax to the remaining parcels within the City shall not be affected and, to this
end, the provisions of this Ordinance are severable.

Section 8. Successors. To the fullest extent pennitted by law, this Ordinance and its
special tax authorization and authority shall be binding upon any successors in interest to the
City or any successors in interest to the City's library service functions.

Section 9. Authorization. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of
i this Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing where indicated below.

\

Resolution No. 2012-139
Exhibit “A"

Page 2 of 3

[SIGNATURES FOLLOW]

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED. APPROVED and ADOPTED by the
people of the City of Pomona voting on the 6th day of November, 2012.

ATTEST:	CITY OF POMONA:
Marie Michel Macias, City Clerk APPROVED AS TO FORM:	Elliott Rothman, Mayor
Arnold M. Alvarez-Glasman, City Attorney	

Resolution No. 2012-139
Exhibit "A”

Page 3 of 3