ORDINANCE NO. 71
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WILDOMAR,
CALIFORNIA, ADDING A NEW CHAPTER 3.18 TO THE
WILDOMAR MUNICIPAL CODE AUTHORIZING A
SPECIAL TAX TO PROVIDE FUNDING FOR WILDOMAR
COMMUNITY PARKS AND COMMUNITY PARK RELATED
FACILITIES, PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

The people of the City of Wildomar do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. ADDITION OF CHAPTER 3.18. A new chapter 3.18 entitled “Save
Wildomar Community Parks Funding Measure” is hereby added to Title 3 “Revenue and
Finance” of the Wildomar Municipal Code, and shall read as follows:

“Chapter 3.18 - SAVE WILDOMAR COMMUNITY
PARKS FUNDING MEASURE

3.18.010 - Authority to Adopt Measure. This chapter and the tax authorized herein are
adopted pursuant to the provisions of the California Constitution, Articles XIIIA §4 and
XIIIC §2, and pursuant to Sections 50075 et seq. and 53722 et seq. of the California
Government Code.

3.18.020 - Purpose. The tax authorized by this chapter is solely for the purpose of
raising revenue to pay for the availability of and the funding, repair, operating and
maintenance of community parks and community park related facilities, programs and
services within the City of Wildomar. The tax is not imposed as an ad valorem tax on
real property, nor a transaction tax or sales tax on the sale of real property. The
proceeds of the tax will be deposited in a special fund and shall be restricted for the
purposes stated above. As such, the tax is a special tax.

3.18.030 - Use of Proceeds. Tax proceeds raised pursuant to this chapter may only be
used for Wildomar community park purposes as specified in Section 3.18.020,
including, but not limited to, maintaining clean public restrooms, maintaining safe
playground equipment, restoring safety lighting, removing graffiti, maintaining sports
fields, and maintaining landscaping and public structures situated in Wildomar
community parks. Tax proceeds raised pursuant to this chapter may also be used for
audit reports as set forth in this chapter.

3.18.040 - Annual Report. An annual report shall be prepared and filed with the City
Council of the City as provided in Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3 of the California
Government Code, and shall contain (a) the amount of funds collected and expended,
and (b) the status of the community park and community park facilities, programs and
services funded by the tax proceeds raised pursuant to this chapter, including the costs
of staff, utilities, materials, contract services and other items related to the repair and
maintenance of community parks and community park facilities.

3.18.050 - Annual Audit. The Director of Finance shall cause the City’s independent
auditor to perform an annual audit of the expenditure of the proceeds of the tax imposed
by this chapter.

3.18.060 - Oversight Committee. By no later than March 1, 2013, the City Council shall
establish a Wildomar Community Parks Funding Measure Citizen’s Oversight Advisory
Committee to advise the City Council regarding the collection and expenditure of tax
revenues collected under the authority of this chapter. The Committee shall consist of
at least five members, who shall be residents of the City. The terms of the Committee
members and their specific duties shall be established by resolution of the City Council.

3.18.070 - Special Tax Fund. Tax proceeds raised pursuant to this chapter shall be
deposited into a special fund in the City treasury, to be designated the “Wildomar
Community Parks Special Tax Fund,” and appropriated and expended only for the
purposes authorized by this chapter.

3.18.080 - Special Tax. Commencing as of July 1, 2013 and continuing annually
thereafter, there is imposed a tax on all parcels in the City for the privilege of using
community park and community park related facilities, programs and services and the
availability of such facilities, programs and services. The maximum tax rate imposed
hereby shall not exceed Twenty-Eight Dollars ($28.00) per parcel per year. For
purposes of this chapter, "parcel” means a unit of real estate in the City as shown on the
most current official assessment role of the Riverside County Assessor.

3.18.090 - Collection of Special Tax. The tax imposed by this chapter shall be due and
payable on July 1 of each year, but it may be paid in two (2) installments due no later
than the immediately following December 10 and April 10. The tax shall be delinquent if
not received on or before the delinquency date set forth in the notice mailed to the
address of the owner of the parcel as shown on the most current assessment roll of the
Riverside County Tax Collector. The tax authorized under this chapter shall be
collected by the Riverside County Tax Collector in accordance with applicable
procedures, and the tax may only be included on the annual tax bill sent out by the
Riverside County Tax Collector.

3.18.100 - Collection of Unpaid Special Taxes. The amount of any tax imposed on a
parcel by this chapter, together with any penalties for nonpayment, shall be deemed a
debt to the City, in the event of a delinquency in the payment of any such tax and
penalties, the City may bring an action in its name against the owner of the parcel with
respect to which the tax is delinquent for collection of the amounts owing. In any such
action, the City shall also be entitled to recover its attorneys’ fees and costs and
administrative expenses.

3.18.110 - Penalty for Nonpayment. A penalty of Five Dollars ($5.00) is hereby
imposed on all taxpayers who fail to pay the tax imposed by this chapter when due. In
addition, if the tax remains unpaid as of July 1 of the following year, an additional
penalty of Five Dollars ($5.00) shall be imposed on all amounts unpaid. Every penalty

imposed under the provisions of this chapter shall become a part of the tax herein
required to be paid.

3.18.120 - Exemptions. The tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to the owner of
any parcel that is legally exempt therefrom.

3.18.130 - Regulations. The City Council is authorized to promulgate such regulations
as it deems necessary in order to implement the provisions of this chapter.

3.18.140 - Amendment. This chapter may not be amended by the City Council to
increase the tax imposed hereunder without applicable voter approval. Subject to the
foregoing, the City Council may amend this chapter without voter approval to clarify its
provisions or to make technical corrections, including conforming the collection
provisions of this chapter with applicable State law.

3.18.150 - Severability. If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this
chapter is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality,
illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause, section or part
of this chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences,
clauses, sections or parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
people of the City of Wildomar, that this chapter would have been adopted had such
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part thereof not
been included herein.

3.18.160 - Challenge. Any action to challenge the tax imposed by this chapter shall be
brought pursuant to Government Code Section 50077.5 and Code of Civil Procedure
Section 860 et seq.

Submitted to the voters at a General Municipal Election consolidated with the Statewide
General Election on November 6, 2012, with results declared at a Regular Wildomar
City Council Meeting on December 12, 2012 via Resolution No. 2012-44 incorporating
certified results from the County of Riverside Registrar of Voters. Results show a
majority of voters voted in favor of the Ordinance.

Certified this 12th day of December, 2012.

City Clerk