Measure A: Parcel Tax, Contra Costa Community College District

To provide Diablo Valley College, Contra Costa College, Los Medanos College, and the Brentwood and San Ramon Centers with funds that cannot be taken by the state; maintain high quality education; support course offerings and instructional programs, including healthcare, technology, and public safety; increase access to support services, and prepare students for university transfer; shall Contra Costa Community College District levy $11 per parcel for six years with Citizens' Oversight, no funds for administrative salaries, and all funds spent locally?

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
The Governing Board of the Contra Costa Community College District has adopted a resolution proposing a parcel tax (a qualified special tax). This ballot measure asks voters to decide whether the District should levy a parcel tax on each parcel of taxable real property within the District, beginning July 1, 2013, and continuing for six years.
If this measure passes, effective July 1, 2013, the District would levy a parcel tax in the amount of $11 per parcel per year, on each parcel of taxable real property located within the District. The parcel tax would expire on June 30, 2019.
A parcel of taxable real property is any unit of real property located within the District that receives a separate property tax bill from the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. The parcel tax would not be levied on parcels that are exempt from paying property taxes.
The ballot measure states that the proceeds from the parcel tax will be used to: "support academic course offerings and instructional programs, including courses in healthcare, technology, and public safety; increase student access to academic support services; prepare students for university transfer; and support the District's maintenance and operations, including purchase of instructional equipment, materials and supplies." The measure specifies that proceeds from the parcel tax will not be used to pay direct or indirect administrative staff costs. Proceeds from the parcel tax may be used only for the specific purposes set forth in the ballot measure and according to constitutional and statutory provisions.
State law requires the District's chief fiscal officer to file an annual report with the District's Governing Board that states the amount of funds received and expended in each year and the status of any projects required or authorized to be funded from parcel tax proceeds. State law also requires the proceeds from the parcel tax to be deposited into a designated account. The measure also would require the District's Governing Board to establish an independent citizens' oversight committee that would review the annual audit and the use of parcel tax proceeds, to ensure the proceeds are being used only for the purposes described in the measure.
Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the measure for it to pass. A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax. A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax.




Arguments For Measure A
Vote YES on A to allow our local community colleges-- Diablo Valley College, Contra Costa College, Los Medanos College and educational centers in San Ramon and Brentwood--to keep providing essential access to affordable, high quality education for local students.
Due to state budget cuts, many of the most important core academic classes are now overcrowded or unavailable. This makes it hard for students to get the classes they need to complete their degrees or move on to four-year schools and rewarding careers. Studies have shown that the longer it takes for community college students to complete their studies, the more likely it is that they will never finish.
Strong core academics and high quality career training programs in healthcare, sciences, technology and public safety, prepare our community college graduates to transfer to universities or begin their careers in these critical fields. Our local economy depends upon the quality of our colleges!
Vote YES on A so that local community college students have access to classes and get the counseling they need to stay in school.
	•	Maintain programs to prepare students for jobs and careers
	•	Improve core academic program in math, science and English
	•	Help students get into the classes they need
	•	Provide programs to prepare students for transfer to four-year colleges
	•	Maintain job retraining programs to help prepare adults for 21st-century jobs
	•	Attract and retain high quality faculty 
Every penny from Measure A will be spent here in Contra Costa County to support our community colleges.
	•	None of these funds can be taken away by the state
	•	A citizens' oversight committee will ensure funds are spent as promised
	•	Measure A will be in place for only 6 years and cannot be continued without voter approval 
Vote YES on A to protect high quality career training.
YesForCCCDVCLMC.org.
Claudia Hein, DVC Chemistry Dept Chair
Mary Helen Rocha, City Councilmember/former mayor, Antioch
Helen Benjamin, Chancellor Contra Costa Comm College Dist
Ed Best, Former member Citizen's Oversight Cmttee CCCCD
Rodney Wilson, Former Assoc Student Union President, Contra Costa College

(No argument against Measure A was filed.)

Full Text of Measure A
CONTRA COSTA COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT 2012 Education Revenue Augmentation Act
This Proposition may be known and referred to as the "Contra Costa Community College District 2012 Education Revenue Augmentation Act" or as "Measure A".
FINDINGS
The Governing Board of Contra Costa Community College District ("Governing Board") seeks to maintain its schools for the benefit of its community college students. The Contra Costa County community places a high value on maintaining and continuing to improve the academic performance and quality of education for community college students in the District.
The local community colleges--Diablo Valley College, Contra Costa College, and Los Medanos College--and the college centers in San Ramon (Diablo Valley College) and Brentwood (Los Medanos College), prepare students to transfer to four-year universities; maintain job training in healthcare, technology, public safety, and other areas, and preserve student services.
The District and community have consistently supported our local community colleges with local fund-raising efforts, including Measure A in 2002 and in 2006.
The District and the colleges have made reductions of programs, services, and course offerings as a result of four years of state apportionment revenue reductions.
The Governing Board believes that a special tax is necessary to maintain and enhance quality education for Contra Costa Community College District students.
All funds generated from this special tax cannot be taken by the state. All expenditures of these funds would be monitored by an independent Citizens' Oversight committee. TERMS
Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this Proposition, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax annually on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for six fiscal years commencing Monday, July 1, 2013. The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the "Contra Costa Community College District 2012 Education Revenue Augmentation Act". The amount of the Contra Costa Community College District 2012 Education Revenue Augmentation Act shall be $11 per year per parcel of taxable property.
PURPOSES
Proceeds of the Contra Costa Community College District 2012 Education Revenue Augmentation Act shall be authorized to be used to provide financial support to school programs directly benefitting students, as follows:

	•	support academic course offerings and instructional programs, including courses in healthcare, technology, and public safety; 
increase student access to academic support services;
prepare students for university transfer; and
support the District's maintenance and operations, including the purchase of instructional equipment, materials and supplies.
No proceeds shall be spent on direct or indirect costs for administrative staff of the District.
Proceeds shall be fairly and equitably distributed, as the Governing Board of the District shall determine.
ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS
Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. The Governing Board shall establish an independent Citizens' Oversight Committee to review the Annual Audit and other records of how moneys raised under this Proposition have been spent in order to ensure that such moneys have been spent wisely and only for the purposes named in this Proposition. The Governing Board shall provide by resolution for the composition, duties, funding and other necessary information regarding the Committee's formation and operation.
Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Contra Costa Community College District 2012 Education Revenue Augmentation Act tax, the Governing Board shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1. For so long as any proceeds remain unexpended, the Chancellor or the chief financial officer of the District shall cause a report to be filed with the Governing Board no later than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2013, stating (1) the amount collected and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or description of any programs funded. The costs of preparing the annual report may be paid from the proceeds of the parcel tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Governing Board.
Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this Proposition shall constitute the specific purposes of the Costa Community College District 2012 Education Revenue Augmentation Act, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.
LEVY AND COLLECTION
The Contra Costa Community College District 2012 Education Revenue Augmentation Act shall be collected by the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.
"Parcel of taxable real property- shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector. "Parcel of taxable real property- shall exclude all parcels which are otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor's determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Contra Costa Community College District 2012 Education Revenue Augmentation Act paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.
SEVERABILITY The Governing Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Proposition concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this Proposition has independent value, and the Governing Board and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this Proposition by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.