HKsv ballot measure submittal  (•ESI:) form		Official Use Only: Date Stamp  RECEIVED  Alameda County  :\IJG 09 -2012 Reg, of ’Vo*er«
?:BABLOTvMEASURE QUESTION '		
jurisdiction Name: ggp Leandro Unified School District	Hecdon Date November 6, 2012	

Note; The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.

Insert ballot title/question text here:

! To offset severe State budget cuts with emergency funding that cannot be j
taken by Sacramento; protect core academic math/science/reading programs
and student safety; keep libraries open; retain quality teachers; maintain j
j classroom computers, instructional technology, PE., art, music and class size; I
shall San Leandro Unified School District levy $39/year on single family homes
and rates on commercial/other types of parcels, for five years, with annual
audits, citizens oversight, senior exemptions, and no money for administrator
salaries?

L.„

	
Two-Thirds	
FULL TEXT OPTION	
Full Text to be printed In the Voter Information Pamphlet  B YES (note: electronic version must be submitted via e-mail or on a CD)	
□ NO	
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE	
Print Name:	Date:
Cindy M. Cathey	August 8, 2012



Phone #:

510-667-3522

E-Mail;

E-MaiyWebsite:

lpollard@sanleandro.k12.ca.us

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

ANALYSIS BY THE COUNTY COUNSEL OF A SAN LEANDRO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE

Measure L, a San Leandro Unified School District ("District") special parcel tax measure,
seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy an annual special parcel tax on each parcel
of taxable real property for five years following adoption of the measure.

School districts have the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of
the votes cast on special tax measures pursuant to Article XI11 A, Section 4 and Article XI11C,
Section 2 of the California Constitution and sections 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 of the
California Government Code.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the District
will impose a special tax on all parcels of taxable real property annually for five years. The tax
rates will be as follows: $39.00 (thirty-nine dollars) per year per parcel for single family
residential parcels, multi-family residential parcels with 2-4 units, and vacant/unimproved
parcels; $19.00 (nineteen dollars) per unit for multi-family residential parcels with 5 or more
units; and $0.02 (two cents) per square foot of lot size for commercial/industrial parcels. For
purposes of this special parcel tax, “parcel” means any parcel of land that receives a separate
tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector.

The Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector will collect the tax at the same time and in
the same manner as ad valorem property taxes. Certain exemptions are available to any parcel
owned and occupied by individuals 65 years of age or over or anyone receiving Supplemental
Social Security Income for a disability. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which
no ad valorem property taxes are levied in any year shall also be exempt from this tax.

If the measure passes, the funding revenue will be used for the specific purposes set
forth in the full text of the measure printed in this sample ballot pamphlet, including: maintaining
core math, science and reading programs; attracting and retaining teachers; maintaining
classroom technology; etc. The measure further provides that the monies collected shall be
accounted for separately and expended only for those specified purposes. The funds will not
pay for administrative salaries. The measure provides for an independent citizens’ oversight
committee and revenue and expenditure reports.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the District will not be authorized to levy the special tax outlined above.

DONNA R. ZIEGLER
County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure L, which is printed in full in this sample
ballot pamphlet. If you desire an additional copy of the measure, please call the Elections
Official's office at (510) 272-6933 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. You may also
access the full text of the measure on the Alameda County website at the following address:

www.acaov.org/rov/.

Argument in Favor of Measure L

Save San Leandro schools from destructive State budget cuts! Vote YES on L to protect quality
education for San Leandro students.

Over the past five years, Sacramento cut over $12 million from San Leandro schools causing
devastating cuts to student academic programs. YES on L says enough is enough. Our students
deserve better!

Every dime raised by Measure L goes to our local schools and CAN’T BE TAKEN AWAY BY
SACRAMENTO.

YES on L protects and maintains small class sizes, art/music, library programs, physical
education, security staff and teachers that are all essential for a good education.

•	YES on L protects core academic math, science and reading programs.

•	YES on L keeps school libraries open.

•	YES on L retains high quality teachers.

•	NO money can be used for administrators’ salaries.

YES on L prepares students for high demand jobs of the 21st century. By maintaining up-to-date
computer and educational technology programs, YES on L allows students to compete in today’s
high-speed, technologically advanced economy.

YES on L gets back to basics, ensuring our students get a solid educational foundation that
prepares them for college.

YES on L maintains school security staff to keep crime away from our middle/high schools and
provide students support and safety to stay in school and out of trouble.

Measure L requires strict fiscal accountability, including a five year sunset, annual financial
audits, and independent citizens oversight to ensure funds are spent as promised. Seniors and
those on disability are exempt from paying.

San Leandro public schools receive less funding and State support than ANY other School
District in our region. YES on L gives our students the same opportunities as our neighbors.

Join the San Leandro Chamber of Commerce, State Senator Ellen Corbett, teachers, parents,
seniors, and community leaders - vote YES on L! Visit www.YESonLSanLeandroSchools.com.

ARGUMENT AGAINST
SAN LEANDRO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX

MEASURE L

We are in very difficult economic times. Everyone has been badly hurt by the Great Recession.
We must be very careful with the limited financial resources in our community.

Since 2006, San Leandro Voters have already approved $160,000,000.00 in expensive Bonds
(Measure B and Measure M) for the San Leandro Unified School District at an average cost of
over $350.00 per household per year through 2035.

Now the San Leandro Unified School District is attacking Proposition 13 by advocating a split
roll assessment property tax scheme that will cause all business property in San Leandro to pay
far more in property taxes than our neighboring communities. This will make it even more
difficult for our struggling local businesses and will result in higher costs for all of us. Measure
L will keep new businesses and jobs from locating in San Leandro.

Our public education costs are rising higher and higher, yet no one is talking about how we must
get these costs under control. There are ineffective cost controls in Measure L. Until we put
firm limits on the true costs of public education, our current problems will only get worse.

Measure L is only for five years. What happens afterwards? Do they ask us for more money in
2016 or what? We need long term solutions not hurried quick fixes that erode Proposition 13
and threaten our local businesses.

Take a good look at your ballot. There are three statewide and several other local tax measures
to vote on in this election. How many new taxes can you afford, especially a tax that attacks
struggling local businesses and erodes Proposition 13?

WE MUST SEND A LOUD AND CLEAR MESSAGE TO THE SAN LEANDRO
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT.

SAY NO TO OUT OF CONTROL COSTS.

SAY NO TO TEMPORARY QUICK FIX MEASURES.

SAY NO TO ATTACKS ON LOCAL BUSINESSES.

SAY NO TO ATTACKS ON PROPOSITION 13.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE L.

Argument In Favor of Measure L
Signers

1.	Mary Styner

Eden Area ROP Teacher of the Year

2.	Ellen M. Corbett
California State Senator

3.	David Grodin

Chair-Elect, San Leandro Chamber of Commerce

4.	Phyllis Gee

Senior Commissioner

5.	Bob Macinnis

San Leandro Police Chief, Retired

Argument Against Measure L
Signers

1.	Thomas R. Silva

CAAPAC Local Trustee/San Leandro Business Property Owner

2.	Marc Crawford

CAAPAC Local Trustee/San Leandro Business Property Owner

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure L

Don’t be misled by absentee landlords who don’t live in San Leandro and don’t want to pay their fair
share! They don’t care that our schools have so little funding, teachers are literally rationing classroom
supplies. It's up to us to do something about this!

Vote YES on L to help San Leandro schools - the ONLY measure on your November ballot directly
addressing San Leandro’s needs!

FACT: State budget cuts have slashed education funding. In just 5 years, Sacramento politicians cut $12
million from San Leandro schools. Your schools receive less funding than every other school district in
our region.

FACT: All Measure L funds are legally required to be spent only on San Leandro schools and can’t be
taken by Sacramento politicians.

FACT: Measure L upholds Proposition 13 and follows the law. Senior homeowners are exempt from
paying under Measure L. Receiving your exemption is easy: visit www.sanleandro.kl2.ca.us or call 510-
667-3522 to apply.

FACT: San Leandro businesses SUPPORT Measure L! The San Leandro Chamber of Commerce endorses
YES on L because it prepares students for jobs and careers in today’s tough economy.

YES on L protects quality education for San Leandro students by maintaining small class sizes, music,
libraries, physical education, security staff and teachers - which are all essential for a good education.

Measure L includes tough taxpayer protections/guarantees:

•	Citizens Oversight Committee

•	Published annual financial audits

•	Legally requires funds directly benefit student education

•	Measure L CANNOT be used for administrator salaries/pensions.

Vote YES on L - give our students the opportunities our neighbors have.

August 20, 2012

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

We must have open, honest, good faith discussions about our local government finances.

The San Leandro Unified School District is not telling you the whole truth about its
finances and how Measure L attacks Proposition 13.

Yes, since 2006 the State cut $12,000,000.00 total from the San Leandro Unified School
District budget, but what about the $160,000,000.00 in expensive bonds that San Leandro
voters have already approved? They’re still $148,000,000.00 ahead at an average cost of
over $350.00 per household, per year through 2035.

Isn’t $160,000,000.00 in approved local funding enough to offset $12,000,000.00 in cuts
from Sacramento?

Now they're attacking Proposition 13 in a very sneaky and deceptive way. Look
at the Measure L ballot summary, what exactly does "rates on
commercial/other types of parcels" mean?

Do some homework and review the full text of Measure L. Instead of one flat per parcel
tax in the San Leandro Unified School District, there are five separate split roll property
tax rates in Measure L.

Split roll assessments are dangerous first steps in dismantling the very strong protection of
Proposition 13, which keeps our property taxes low and affordable for us all.

Measure L will hit struggling San Leandro businesses hard with new taxes ranging from
$600.00 to well over $40,000.00 per year. This will result in higher prices and lost jobs in
San Leandro.

Isn’t $160,000,000.00 in already approved local funding more than enough to offset
$12,000,000.00 in cuts from Sacramento?

SAY NO TO SNEAKY AND DECEPTIVE TACTICS.

SAY NO TO HIGHER COSTS FOR LOCAL BUSINESSES.

SAY NO TO SPLIT ROLL ASSESSMENTS.

SAY NO TO ATTACKS ON PROPOSITION 13.

VOTE NOON MEASURE L.

Thomas R. Silva

CAAPAC Local Trustee

San Leandro Business Property Owner

Marc Crawford

CAAPAC Local Trustee

San Leandro Business Property Owner

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure L
Signers

1.	Stephen Cassidy

Mayor, City of San Leandro

2.	John J. Jermanis

San Leandro City Manager, Retired Co-Chair, Yes on Measure L

3.	David Grodin

Chair-Elect, San Leandro Chamber of Commerce

4.	Deborah Cox

Chair Citizens Bond Oversight Committee, Co-Chair Yes on Measure L

5.	Donna B. Reed

49 Year San Leandro Homeowner and Tax Paper

Rebuttal to Argument In Favor Measure L
Signers

1.	Thomas Silva

CAAPAC Local Trustee, San Leandro Business Property Owner

2.	Marc Crawford

CAAPAC Local Trustee, San Leandro Business Property Owner

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure L

Don’t be misled by absentee landlords who don’t live in San Leandro and don’t want to pay their fair
share! They don’t care that our schools have so little funding, teachers are literally rationing classroom
supplies. It's up to us to do something about this!

Vote YES on L to help San Leandro schools - the ONLY measure on your November ballot directly
addressing San Leandro’s needs!

FACT: State budget cuts have slashed education funding. In just 5 years, Sacramento politicians cut $12
million from San Leandro schools. Your schools receive less funding than every other school district in
our region.

FACT: All Measure L funds are legally required to be spent only on San Leandro schools and can’t be
taken by Sacramento politicians.

FACT: Measure L upholds Proposition 13 and follows the law. Senior homeowners are exempt from
paying under Measure L. Receiving your exemption is easy: visit www.sanleandro.kl2.ca.us or call 510-
667-3522 to apply.

FACT: San Leandro businesses SUPPORT Measure L! The San Leandro Chamber of Commerce endorses
YES on L because it prepares students for jobs and careers in today’s tough economy.

YES on L protects quality education for San Leandro students by maintaining small class sizes, music,
libraries, physical education, security staff and teachers - which are all essential for a good education.

Measure L includes tough taxpayer protections/guarantees:

•	Citizens Oversight Committee

•	Published annual financial audits

•	Legally requires funds directly benefit student education

•	Measure L CANNOT be used for administrator salaries/pensions.

Vote YES on L - give our students the opportunities our neighbors have.

FULL BALLOT TEXT

RECfcii i/ED

SAN LEANDRO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Measure_____

[letter designation to be assigned by Alameda County Registrar of

RECITALS

The Governing Board ("Board") of the San Leandro Unified School District ("District")
has established the goals of improving academic performance and the quality of education
for all children in the District so that they are prepared for college and to compete for good
jobs. Furthermore, the District aims to enhance local control of our schools and reduce our
dependence on the State of California for education funding.

Over the last four years, the State has cut millions from District schools. This has
caused devastating cuts to student academic programs and drastic reductions to teachers,
and District schools may lose additional millions in next year's state budget.

To balance its budget in the face of severe state cuts, the District has been forced to
make substantial cuts. Having already cut teachers, librarians, counselors, office staff,
campus supervisors, custodians, maintenance and grounds staff, there is nothing left to cut
but core academic instruction.

The District must act to protect quality education. The Measure would provide stable
and predictable funding that our schools can count on to protect the most essential
academic programs for students and retain quality teachers.

Money from the Measure would be used to protect and maintain small class sizes and
the music, library, physical education, security staff and teachers that are all essential for a
good education. Funds would also be used to ensure that our students get a solid
educational foundation in academic subjects such as math, science, and reading, helping
prepare them for entry into college and to compete in today's tough job market. To
compete in today's high-speed, technologically advanced economy, it is critical to maintain
up-to-date computer and educational technology programs for our students, and the
Measure will help prepare students for high demand jobs of the twenty-first century.

The measure would also maintain the school security staff that keep crime away
from our middle schools and high schools and provide students with the support and safety
they need to stay in school and out of trouble.

With the Measure the academic quality of local schools will continue to improve,
ensuring students have access to the teachers, small class sizes, computers and learning
technology they need for academic and career success.

This measure would enhance local control of District schools, make our schools less
dependent on Sacramento, and provide vital funding to support students and education at a
time when they need it most.

By law, all funds from this local funding measure must be used to protect the
specified programs in District schools and cannot be taken away by the State. Strict
accountability is mandatory, including independent citizen oversight and annual audits to
ensure funds are spent as promised. None of the funds will be used for administrator
salaries.

TERMS

Moneys raised under this Measure shall be authorized to be used only for the following
purposes in accordance with priorities established by the Board and to the extent of
available funds:

•	Protect and maintain core academic math, science and reading programs

•	Protect student safety

•	Keep school libraries open

•	Attract and retain high-quality teachers and staff including counselors

•	Maintain classroom computers and instructional technology

•	Protect and maintain physical education programs and athletic programs

•	Protect and maintain art and music programs for a well-rounded education

•	Protect and maintain small class sizes

•	Minimize further budget cuts resulting from reductions in state funding for local

schools

No parcel tax funds will be spent on administrative salaries.

A. Amount and Basis of Tax

1.	Parcel of Taxable Real Property. The special tax shall be levied on every
Parcel of Taxable Real Property within the District.

"Parcel of Taxable Real Property" is defined as any unit of real property within the
District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Alameda
County Tax Collector ("County Tax Collector"). All property that is otherwise exempt from
or upon which no ad valorem property taxes are levied in any year shall also be exempt
from the special tax in such year.

Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under common ownership, contain a single-
family residence, and that constitute one economic unit, meaning that they have the same
primary purpose as the principal parcel and are not separate and distinct properties that
may be independently developed or sold, shall comprise a single Parcel of Taxable Real
Property for purposes of the parcel tax.

2

2.	Uniform Application. The special tax shall be uniformly applied to each Parcel
of Taxable Real Property within the following property classifications.

Type of Property

Annual Amount of Tax per

Parcel of Taxable Real Property

•	Single Family Residential	$39	per	parcel

•	Multi-Family Residential With	2-4 Units	$39	per	parcel

•	Multi-Family Residential With	5 or	More Units $19	per	unit

•	Commercial/Industrial	$0.02 per square foot of lot size

•	Vacant/Unimproved Parcels	$39	per	parcel

For purposes of determining the rate of tax above, the following definitions shall apply:

•	"Single Family Residential" includes parcels containing one or both of the
following kinds of residential living units (a) those with no common walls on a
single Assessor's parcel (i.e., single family detached homes); and (b) those with
common walls each of which is assigned a unique Assessor's parcel number (i.e.
condominiums and townhouses), each of which shall be treated as a Parcel of
Taxable Real Property; and (c) mobile homes, each of which shall be treated as a
Parcel of Taxable Real Property.

•	"Multi-Family Residential" means a residential living unit with common walls on
an Assessor's parcel on which other units are located. Such parcels include, but
are not limited to, duplexes, parcels with two (2) or more living units on a single
assessor's parcel; apartment buildings with at least two (2) units; and any and all
other multi-family residential parcels.

•	"Commercial/Industrial" means all improved Parcels of Taxable Real Property that
do not meet the definition of Single Family Residential or Multi-Family
Residential. Commercial/Industrial property includes, but is not limited to, retail
buildings, shopping centers, hotels, motels, service stations, office buildings,
hospitals, trailer parks, warehouses, transportation facilities, storage facilities,
utilities, agricultural and farmland, light and heavy industrial and recreational
land.

• "Vacant/Unimproved" means an unimproved parcel with no structures or
buildings.

Every year, all Parcels of Taxable Real Property that were classified as Vacant parcels in the
prior fiscal year, may be reclassified into another category if a building permit has been
pulled as of January 1 of that year.

Any parcel that does not fall clearly within any category above shall be taxed $39 per parcel
annually.

3

B.	Exemptions for Seniors and People with Disabilities

Upon application, an exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted on
any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who occupies said parcel
as a principal residence ("Senior Citizen Exemption") or on any parcel owned by one or
more persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age,
who occupies said parcel as a principal residence ("SSI Exemption").

C.	Claims / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County
Tax Collector or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations of
tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With
respect to matters specific to the levy of the tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption and
the SSI Exemption and the appropriate tax classification, the decisions of the District shall
be final and binding. The procedures described herein, and any additional procedures
established by the Board shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an
exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special tax by the District. Whether
any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by
the District, in coordination with the County as necessary. Taxpayers wishing to challenge
any determination of the County Tax Collector must do so under the procedures for
correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Part 9 of Division 1 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of
any tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the
California Revenue and Taxation Code.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the
appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum
collected by levy of this special tax.

E.	Mandatory Accountability Protections

1.	Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. The Board shall provide for
the creation of an independent citizens' oversight committee to oversee the special taxes
collected pursuant to the Measure to ensure that moneys raised under this Measure are
spent only for the purposes described in this Measure. The Board shall provide by
resolution for the composition, duties, funding, and other necessary information regarding
the committee's formation and operation.

2.	Annual Reports. Upon the levy and collection of the education parcel tax,
the Board shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to
Government Code Section 50075.1. For so long as the tax is in effect, the Superintendent
or the chief financial officer of the District shall cause a report to be filed with the Board no
later than December 31 of each year, stating (1) the amount collected and expended in
such year, and (2) the status of any projects or description of any programs funded. The
report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as
said officer shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget,
audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board.

3.	Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the Measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the education parcel tax, and proceeds thereof shall be
applied only for such purposes.

4

F.

Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the District resulting
from the adoption of a special tax. However, if any such funding is reduced or affected
because of the adoption of this local funding measure, then the Board may reduce the
amount of the special taxes levied as necessary in order to restore such State or federal
funding and/or maximize the District's fiscal position for the benefit of the educational
program. As a result, whether directly or indirectly, no funding from this measure may be
taken away by the State or federal governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Measure concur, that
every section and part of this Measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters
would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon
approval of this Measure by the voters, should any part of the Measure or taxing formula be
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, ail remaining parts
of the Measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest
extent allowed by law.

5