GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012
SAMPLE BALLOT AND VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

Find Your Polling Place on the Back Cover
Polls Open at 7:00 A.M. and Close at 8:00 P.M.

ELECCION GENERAL

MARTES 6 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 2012
BOLETA ELECTORAL DE MUESTRA Y FOLLETO DE INFORMACION DEL VOTANTE

Encuentre su centre electoral en la contraportada
Los centres electorales abren a las 7:00 a.m. y cierran a las 8:00 p.m.

Am

2012^11^605®“

»PUnSS(^mAP±7:00USM±8:00ft

Sacramento County Registrar of Voters
Visit our website: www.elections.saccountv.net

7000 65th Street, Sacramento, CA 95823
Telephone number: (916) 875-6451

K Crime Reduction and Street Resurfacing Measure
Shall an ordinance be adopted to modify the City's
existing Utility User Tax to treat taxpayers equally;
and to temporarily increase the current rate by 1.75%, for 10
years, for the following restricted uses: additional police
officers, programs to prevent youth crime/violence, police
equipment and technology, and resurfacing city streets?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

Prepared by Citrus Heights Attorney

The Citrus Heights City Council has placed Measure K on the bal-
lot, to ask voters to update the definitions in the City’s existing
Utility Users Tax (UUT) Ordinance and to approve a temporary
one and three-quarter percent (1.75%) increase in the UUT for a
period of ten (10) years for the sole purpose of funding street
resurfacing, additional police officers, police equipment and tech-
nology, and programs to prevent youth crime/violence.
The UUT is a tax on electricity, gas, cable, sewer and telecommu-
nications services.

The City, when it incorporated in 1997, adopted Sacramento
County's UUT ordinance; that ordinance has not been updated
since that time. Measure K would update the definitions in the
City's current UUT ordinance by including wireless communica-
tions, private communication service, paging and voice over inter-
net, and other anticipated technologies within the scope of the
services subject to the UUT. Thus, if Measure K passes, users
of these and other new technologies would pay the same UUT
paid by users of traditional landline telephones and other utility
users.

Measure K does not propose any tax on internet access, such as
DSL or cable modem. Measure K also does not tax internet serv-
ices, such as purchases or downloads of music, books, or similar
items.

Measure K defines how the City must use the increased revenue.
Because Measure K is a special, not a general, tax and due to
Measure K's terms, the increased UUT revenues from the 1.75%
temporary tax can only be used as follows: 0.875% for street
resurfacing; 0.547% for additional police officers, 0.218% for
police equipment and technology, and 0.110 % for programs to
prevent youth crime/violence. A special fund, the “Street i
Resurfacing and Crime Reduction Measure Fund," will be created
and all proceeds from the special tax will be deposited into this
fund. The City will have an annual report providing information on
the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of
any projects authorized to be funded by the special tax.

Measure K will not become effective unless the Measure is
approved by two-thirds of the people voting on the Measure.

A “Yes" vote is a vote to approve updating the UUT and to approve
a temporary 1.75% increase in the UUT for a period often years
for the sole purpose of funding street resurfacing, additional police
officers, police equipment and technology, and programs to pre-
vent youth crime/violence. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax.
Measure K would be approved if it receives a “Yes” vote from 2/3s
of those voting on the Measure.

DATED: June 28, 2012

si Ruthann G. Ziegler, City Attorney
City of Citrus Heights, California

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of City of Citrus
Heights Ordinance amending Citrus Heights Municipal Code
Chapter 86, Article V relating to Utility User Tax. If you desire a
copy of the ordinance, please access the City of Citrus Heights
website at: http://www.citrusheights.net, or call the Office of the
City Clerk, City of Citrus Heights, at (916) 727-4704 and a copy
will be provided at no cost to you."

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Keep Citrus Heights Safe - Vote YES on Measure K

The City’s crime rate is at its lowest point since we formed our
police department in 2006, but that's changing with the passage
of the state’s prison realignment bill. The release of prisoners into
our community began October 2011. Supervision of this new cat-
egory of offender becomes the responsibility of local jurisdictions.
Statistics show 70% of these criminals will commit new crimes.

City residential streets need resurfacing. When we incorporated
in 1997, most streets in Citrus Heights had never received main-
tenance.

In the past seven years our annual revenues have fallen by $9.7
million due to the downturn in the economy and the State contin-
uing to take away our revenue sources for City services.

For the first 15 years of incorporation Citrus Heights has consis-
tently operated with a balanced budget. We need this temporary
revenue in order to continue to maintain the safety of our commu-
nity and to continue our efforts to rebuild the City's infrastructure.

A yes vote on Measure K is vital to stay ahead of the increase in
crime we are now experiencing and to keep our streets safe. Ayes
vote on Measure K will result in a modest and temporary increase
in the utility user tax of approximately $5 per month per residen-
tial household. A yes vote on Measure K will raise $2 million per
year that will only be used for additional police officers, police
equipment and technology, youth crime prevention programs, and
street resurfacing. In 10 years, the increase will expire. At that
time, in 2023, we will finally receive our property tax revenue
which is currently diverted to Sacramento County.

Keep Citrus Heights Safe - Vote YES on Measure K

s/ Jeff Slowey, Mayor

s/ Stephen A. Miller, Vice Mayor

s/ Jeannie Bruins, Council Member

s/ Melvin D. Turner, Council Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Don’t be misled by the City's cry of poverty. Citrus Heights has
enough money to repair our roads and fund police protection.
Measure K is a large tax increase. Currently, Citrus Heights' resi-
dents pay no taxes on Cell Phones. If Measure K passes, you will
pay 4.25% on top of your current bill. The average Citrus Heights
household will be paying an additional $94.10 a year. That
amounts to a whopping $2,000,000 a year in new taxes.
Furthermore, sewer rates are projected to triple in the next few
years, and so will this new tax.

This year Citrus Heights received $1.3 million-gas tax- for road
maintenance and repairs, but spent less than 1/3 paving neigh-
borhood streets. Instead, these road funds are used to pay some
of the highest salaries and pensions in the region. Currently, the
city’s top staff is in line for $100,000-plus pension-paid for in part
every time you use your cell phone.

Last year there was a $1 million general fund surplus. Half went
for employee bonuses and none went for roads. The simple solu-
tion is for the City to use the $33 million in their savings account
and use the gas tax revenue for what it was intended - paving
roads.

Other jurisdictions are dealing with the state's prison realignment
in innovative ways. For example, assigning each parolee to an
officer to monitor. But it’s easier for Citrus Heights to simply raise
taxes when they really don't need to.

Vote "NO" on Measure K.

s/ Edward J. (“Ted”) Costa, C.E.O., People’s Advocate, Inc.
si Richard B. Brinton, Resident, Author
s/ Ken Payne, President, Sacramento Taypayers’ Association
s/ Bret C. Daniels. Former Mayor, City of Citrus Heights

Ballot Type 030 Page 19

www.elections.saccounty.net

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Don't be deceived. Voting "yes" on this measure means a new tax
on cell phones and other telecommunication services. And when
the cost of utilities increases, so will your tax. Sewer rates will
triple in the next few years, and so will the tax. Since PG&E,
SMUD, Comcast, Surewest and ATT rates are likely to increase
over 10 years, so will the tax.

This is not the time to be increasing taxes. People need more
income, not more expenses. This new tax will discourage busi-
ness growth - right where real job growth begins. Without job
opportunities in the private sector, there is no attraction for people
to move to Citrus Heights. Larger businesses will pass their costs
on to you, increasing your tax contribution. However, small busi-
nesses rely on competitive rates and need incentives to locate in
Citrus Heights, and a utility tax increase is not an incentive. Even
worse, unless business owners live in Citrus Heights, they cannot
even vote on this tax increase.

This tax does not add any new police officers on the streets to
fight crime- just four new detectives (promoted from within), four
new hires for backfill, and a new sergeant to run their nonprofit
youth program.

This tax increase is a perfect example of bureaucratic thinking.
Excess taxes collected in earlier years were not spent paving
neighborhood streets. Instead, those dollars were stashed away
and now there is $33 million surplus in the bank. Even worse.
Citrus Heights' taxpayers currently contribute $1.3 million per year
for roads, and most of it is siphoned off to pay some of the high-
est salaries and pensions in the region.

The city has $33 million in the savings bank. We paid those taxes
already. How about using this money first?

Vote "No" on Measure K

si Edward J. (“Ted”) Costa, C.E.O., People’s Advocate, Inc.
si Richard B. Brinton, Resident, Author
s/ Ken Payne, President, Sacramento Taypayers Association
$/ Bret C. Daniels, Former Mayor, City of Citrus Heights

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Those who signed the argument against Measure K did not get
answers before making uninformed and inaccurate statements. If
they had, they would know:

•	The proposed UUT ordinance update ensures all utility users
are treated equally - today’s technology didn’t exist when the
original ordinance was adopted so not all users are treated
equally.

•	The Citrus Heights Chamber of Commerce endorses Measure
K, recognizing the need to provide additional police enforce-
ment because State Assembly Bill 109 (Prison Realignment)
places convicted felons into our community, most with NO
supervision.

•	Measure K will put five additional police officers on the streets
and upgrade current and future technology and provide funds
to prevent youth violence and reduce crime.

*	City employees are not over compensated. In 2010 employee
benefits were reduced, saving the City approximately
$5,000,000 through 2016.

*	In 2004 Measure A passed resulting in a loss of approximately
$3,000,000 per year when transportation dollars were shifted
from local projects to regional projects. Funds designated for
roads are not “siphoned off for any other purpose.
Transportation funds are budgeted for transportation expenses.

*	General Fund Reserves were established for times of econom-
ic uncertainty, natural disasters, and to augment operating
expenses until the City receives property tax revenues starting
in Fiscal Year 2022/2023 which are currently diverted to

Sacramento County. Reserves may be needed to complete previ-
ously approved redevelopment projects since the City no longer
receives redevelopment funds.

Keep our streets safe. Learn the facts and please join us in voting
Yes on Measure K.

s/Jerry Mayberry, Citrus Heights Regional Chamber of Commerce
Chairman

s/Tonya Wagner, President, REACH & Neighborhood Area 1

s/James Monteton, Planning Commissioner; President of
Neighborhood Area 7 & 8

s/William H. Van Duker, Business Owner, Resident

s/Dale K. Covey, Businessperson, Resident

Ballot Type 030 Page 20

www.elections.saccounty.net