ORDINANCE NO. 12-07

A COUNCIL-SPONSORED INITIATIVE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF GOLETA
ADDING A NEW CHAPTER 3.06 TO THE GOLETA MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING
TO ESTABLISHING THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX AT TWELVE PERCENT
(12%) WITHIN THE CITY OF GOLETA

The people of the City of Goleta ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. Enactment of Ordinance.

The following Chapter 3.06 is hereby added to the Goleta Municipal Code to read in its
entirety as follows

“Chapter 3.06 -Transient Occupancy Tax

Sections:

3.06.01	Definitions

3.06.02	Tax-Imposed on transients; rate; when payable

3.06.03	Duty of operator to collect; to be separately stated; certificate to be posted

3.06.04	Reporting and	remitting amount

3.06.05	Penalties and	interest

3.06.06	Determination by tax collector upon failure to collect and report

3.06.07	Appeal from determination of tax collector

3.06.08	Records

3.06.09	Refunds

3.06.10	Actions to collect

3.06.11	Exemptions

Sec. 3.06.01- Definitions.

For the purposes of this article the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:

Hotel. Any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.

Occupancy. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any
room or rooms or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.

Operator. The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity of
owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other capacity.
Where the operator performs his functions through a managing agent of any type or

1

character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an
operator for the purposes of this article and shall have the same duties and liabilities as
his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this article by either the principal or the
managing agent shall, however be considered to be compliance by both.

Rent. The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy of
space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor or
otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any kind or
nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.

Transient. Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a period of
thirty consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days.
Any such person so occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until
the period of thirty days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing between the
operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy.

Sec. 3.06.02 - Tax—imposed on transients; rate; when payable.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall
pay a tax in the amount of twelve percent of the rent charged by the operator. Such tax
constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the City which is extinguished only by
payment to the operator or to the City. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of
the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate
share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon
the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax is not paid
to the operator of the hotel, the City may require that such tax shall be paid directly to
the City.

Sec. 3.06.03 - Duty of operator to collect; to be separately stated; certificate to be
posted.

Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this article to the same extent and
at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient. The amount of tax shall
be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged, and each transient shall
receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or
state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be
assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if
added, any part will be refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided.

Before commencing business, each operator of any hotel renting occupancy to
transients shall register their hotel with the City of Goleta and obtain from City a
"Certificate of Authority to Collect Transient Occupancy Tax" to be at all times posted in

2

a conspicuous place on the premises. The certificate shall, among other things, state
the following:

(a)	The name of the operator;

(b)	The address of the hotel;

(c)	The date upon which the certificate was issued;

(d)	"This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the
Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance by registering with the City for the
purpose of collecting from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and
remitting said tax to the City. This certificate does not authorize any
person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful
business in an unlawful manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly
complying with all local applicable laws, including but not limited to those
requiring a permit from any board, commission, department or office of the
City. This certificate does not constitute a permit."

Sec. 3.06.04 - Reporting and remitting amount.

Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the close of
the prior month, or at the close of any shorter reporting period which may be established
by the City, make a return to the City, on forms provided by them, of the total rents
charged and received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies. At the
time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the City.
The City may establish shorter reporting periods for any certificate holder if deemed
necessary in order to insure collection of the tax and they may require further
information in the return. Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of
business for any reason. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this article shall be
held in trust for the account of the City until payment thereof is made to the City.

Sec. 3.06.05 - Penalties and interest.

(a)	Original Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by
this article within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the
amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.

(b)	Continued Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of thirty days following the date on which
the remittance first became delinquent shall pay additional delinquency
penalty of ten percent of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of
the tax and the ten percent penalty first imposed.

(c)	Fraud. If the City determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due
under this article is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the

3

amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated
in subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

(d)	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails to
remit any tax imposed by this article shall pay interest at the rate of one-
half of one percent per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid.

(e)	Penalties Merged With Tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest as
accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax
herein required to be paid.

Sec. 3.06.06 - Determination by tax collector upon failure to collect and report.

If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect such tax and to make, within the time
provided in this article any report and remittance of such tax or any portion thereof
required by this article, the City shall proceed in such manner as it may deem best to
obtain facts and information on which to base its estimate of the tax due. As soon as the
City shall procure such facts and information as it is able to obtain upon which to base
the assessment of any tax imposed by this article and payable by any operator who has
failed or refused to collect the same to make such report and remittance, it shall
proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax, interest and penalties
provided for by this article. In case such determination is made, the City shall give a
notice of the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at their last
known place of address. Such operator may within ten days after the serving or mailing
of such notice make application in writing to the City Clerk’s Office for a hearing on the
amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the
time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the City shall
become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If such application is
made, the City shall give not less than five days written notice in the manner prescribed
herein to the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said notice why such
amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and penalties. At such
hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax, interest
and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing the City shall determine the
proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the
manner prescribed herein of such determination and the amount of such tax, interest
and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen days
unless an appeal is taken as provided in section 3.06.07.

Sec. 3.06.07 - Appeal from determination of tax collector.

Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the City with respect to the amount of
such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the City Council by filing a notice

4

of appeal with the City Clerk within fifteen days of the serving or mailing of the
determination of tax due. The City Council shall fix a time and place for hearing such
appeal, and the City Clerk shall give notice in writing to such operator at their last known
place of address. The findings of the City Council shall be final and conclusive and shall
be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice of
hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the
service of notice.

Sec. 3.06.08 - Records.

It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to the
City of any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve, for a period of three years,
all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he may have
been liable for the collection of any payment to the City, which records the City shall
have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

Sec. 3.06.09 - Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or
paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the City under this article it may be refunded as provided in
subsections (b) and (c) of this section provided a claim in writing therefore,
stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim
is founded, is filed with the City within three years of the date of payment.

(b)	An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected
and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or
illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the City that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a refund nor
a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has
either been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently
payable by the transient to the operator.

(c)	A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than once
or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City by filing a claim
in the manner provided in subsection (a) of this section, but only when the
tax was paid by the transient directly to the City, or when the transient
having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the
City that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund from the
operator who collected the tax.

5

(d)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.

Sec. 3.06.10 - Actions to collect.

Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this article
shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the City. Any such tax collected by an
operator which has not been paid to the City shall be deemed a debt owed by the
operator to the City. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of this
article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of
such amount.

Sec. 3.06.11 - Exemptions

No tax shall be imposed upon:

(a)	Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, is beyond the
power of the City to impose the tax provided for in this Section; or

(b)	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason
of express provision of Federal Law or International Treaty.

(c)	Any person(s) who is allowed the right of occupancy by the operator of a
hotel without rent.

No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made under penalty of
perjury at the time rent is collected upon a form prescribed by the City.

The ordinance set forth above was submitted to the voters of the City of Goleta at the
municipal election held on November 6, 2012 and was approved by said electorate.

ATTEST:

6

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA ) ss.

CITY OF GOLETA )

I, Deborah Constantino, City Clerk of the City of Goleta, California, do hereby
certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 12-07 was introduced on June 19, 2012, the
ordinance set forth above was submitted to the voters of the city of Goleta at the
municipal election held on November 6, and passed and approved by said electorate.
The election results having been properly certified, said ordinance is adopted and will
be in full force and effect from January 1, 2013.

(SEAL)

7



I

i ■■