


<impartial> IMPARTIAL	ANALYSIS	OF	MEASURE	“D”

BY PLUMAS COUNTY COUNSEL

If approved by the voters, Measure “D” would approve

I the adoption of an ordinance levying within the County of
Plumas a temporary 0.25 percent transactions and use
tax, commonly referred to as a “sales tax,” pursuant to
section 7285 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. The
transactions and use tax authorized by Measure “D”
would be effective beginning April 1,2013, and continue
until January 1, 2017, at which time it will no longer be
imposed unless a new ordinance is approved by the
voters. The revenue from this transactions and use
tax would be available for expenditure for local Plumas
County general governmental purposes.


By way of background, a transactions tax is a sales tax,
due on the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of
L all tangible personal property within the county. A use tax is an excise tax imposed on the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer for storage, use or consumption within the county. The ordinance contains several exemptions and exclusions from the tax.

The State of California currently imposes a statewide
7.25 percent transactions and use tax which is collected
and administered by the State Board of Equalization.
Cities and counties are allocated 0.25 percent for local transportation and 0.75 percent for local general
government purposes from the statewide sales tax.
The remaining 6.25 percent of the statewide sales tax is
retained by the State of California for use by the state
government. If approved, Measure “D” would add a
temporary 0.25 percent local transactions and use tax to be collected with the statewide tax for a combined rate of 7.5 percent in Plumas County.

This measure will pass if a majority of the votes cast vote
“Yes.” A “YES” vote favors authorizing the temporary local 0.25% percent transactions and use tax. A “NO” vote opposes authorizing the tax. <impartialend>




<impartialsigs> /s/ R. Craig Settlemire,

County Counsel, Plumas County <impartialsigsend>





<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Plumas County’s General Fund receives a small portion of
the current sales tax collected countywide; less than 1 %
of the 7.25%. Voting YES on Measure D will contribute an
estimated $475,000 per year to the General Fund. This
measure would temporarily change the sales tax rate
from 7.25% to 7.5%.

The General Fund pays for county services such as
public safety and emergency services.

Decreasing property values in Plumas County has had a
severe impact on the General Fund. Current 2012/2013
fiscal year projections are for General Fund revenues
to decrease significantly. One of the ways to continue
supporting County services is to increase the local sales
tax by .25%. A large portion of revenue will also be paid
by visitors to our County.

Plumas County seeks revenues to continue providing
services and programs the community expects. A sales
tax change is a beneficial way to replace lost revenue that
will be spent locally and not subject to State allocation.
Please help ensure the revenue that’s raised here stays
here - vote YES on Measure D!

The undersigned authors of the Argument in Favor of
Measure D at the General Election for the County of
Plumas to be held on November 6, 2012 hereby state
that the argument is true and correct to the best of their
knowledge and belief. <favorend>




<favorsigs> /s/ Robert Meacher, Chair, Plumas County Board of
Supervisors

/s/ Terry Swofford, Vice Chair Plumas County Board of
Supervisors

/s/ Sherrie Thrall, Plumas County Board of Supervisors
/s/ Lori Simpson, Plumas County Board of Supervisors
/s/ Jon Kennedy, Plumas County Board of Supervisors <favorsigsend>


NO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE C WAS SUBMITTED


