MUIR BEACH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
________________MEASURE E	__________

MEASURE E: Shall Muir Beach YES

CSD Ordinance No. 2012-1, which -------

imposes an annual special tax of NO

two-hundred ($200.00) dollars for a pe- ----

riod of four (4) years, FY 2012-2013, FY 2013-2014,
and FY 2014-2015 and 2015-2016, on each parcel
within the Muir Beach CSD for fire protection, includ-
ing fuel abatement and emergency preparedness, be
approved and shall the Muir Beach CSD appropriations
limit be increased by the amount of this voter-approved
tax?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE E

MUIR BEACH COMMUNITY
SERVICES DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX

This measure, if approved by two-thirds of those vot-
ing thereon, would authorize the collection of a yearly spe-
cial tax levied by Ordinance 2012-1 of the Muir Beach
Community Services District for four years commencing
in FY 2012-2013 and terminating in FY 2015-2016. The
ordinance levied a special tax in the amount of two-hun-
dred ($200.00) dollars per year. The Measure states that
the proceeds of the taxes would be used to provide for fire
protection, including fuel abatement and emergency pre-
paredness as specified in the ordinance. The measure
would also increase the District appropriations limit by the
amount of the special tax.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

ORDINANCE NO. 2012-1
AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE MUIR BEACH
COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
APPROVING AND ADOPTING THE LEVY OF A
SPECIAL TAX ON THE REAL PROPERTY
LOCATED WITHIN THE DISTRICT FOR FIRE
PROTECTION AND RELATED PURPOSES

WHEREAS, the Muir Beach Community Services
District has been empowered by its voters to supply fire
protection to the District residents; and

WHEREAS, increasing costs of operations and capital
acquisitions for fire protection services, including the in-
creasing need for fuel abatement in our wildland urban
interface setting caused by aging and diseased trees and the
increasing concern about emergency preparedness, along
with the increasing governing agency requirements and
the declining net income from traditional funding sources
caused the District to authorize the development of a plan
to provide a stable, financial foundation to mitigate these
problems, and

WHEREAS, the District subsequently received and
has adopted a comprehensive annualized long-term plan to
maintain and improve fire protection services, including
the fuel load reduction, community emergency and disas-
ter preparedness, and to better manage the bureaucratic
requirements (hereinafter “Fire Protection Plan”); and
WHEREAS, the District is required by CalOSHA (SB
1207 - Romero) that the occupational safety and health
requirements, and therefore training and equipment re-
quirements, for volunteer firefighters are the same as those
of full-time paid firefighters; and

WHEREAS, such services and the maintenance and
improvement of the equipment and facilities required to
provide such services are of benefit to all parcels within
the District to which they are made available, whether or
not the service is actually used, and offering but not limit-
ed to increasing the value of the land, improvements, and
their possible future uses and by reducing the risk of their
destruction by fire; and

WHEREAS, the present Memorial Day BBQ, cloth-
ing sales, grants and contributions neither raise the rev-
enue necessary to pay the costs of maintaining and im-
proving these services, nor provide a stable and predict-
able base of funding.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF MUIR BEACH COM-
MUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1: Purpose and Intent. The purpose and in-
tent of the Board with respect to the special tax is:

s/PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

To methodically upgrade the District’s fire protection,
including fuel abatement and emergency preparedness.
SECTION 2: Tax Ini nosed. Land parcels to be assessed
under this Ordinance shall be defined as any parcel of
land, developed or undeveloped, wholly or partially locat-
ed within the District, for which the County Assessor of
Marin County has assigned an assessor’s identification

number, provided, however, that any such parcels which
are contiguous and held under identical ownership, may,
upon approval of an application of the owners thereof to
this Board, be treated as a single parcel for purposes of this
special tax. The special tax of two hundred ($200.00) dol-
lars shall be levied per annum for a period of four (4)
years, FY 2012-2013, FY 2013-2014, FY 2014-2015, and
FY 2015-2016, on each parcel as defined in this Section 2.
SECTION 3: Exemption from Special Tax. Any owner
of a parcel used solely for owner-occupied single-family
residential purposes and whose household income is
Eighty Percent (80%) and below of median income for
Marin County residents, may obtain an exemption for the
special tax upon approval of an application of such owner
submitted to the Muir Beach Community Services
District.

SECTION 4: Increase of Appropriations Limit. Pur-
suant to the provisions of Article XIII-B of the California
Constitution, the appropriations limit of the Muir Beach
Community Services District is hereby increased by an
amount equal to the special taxes imposed by this ordi-
nance for a period of four (4) years.

SECTION 5: Method of Collection. The special tax
imposed by this ordinance is due from every person who
owns a parcel within the Muir Beach Community Services
District and as reflected upon the rolls of the County
Assessor at the same time ad valorem tax is due and is to
be collected in the same manner. The Marin County Tax
Collector shall collect the tax and any penalty or interest
due hereunder. The full amount due under this Ordinance
shall constitute a debt to the Muir Beach Community
Services District. Marin County may deduct the reason-
able costs incurred by the County for this service before
remittance of the balance to Muir Beach Community
Services District.

SECTION 6: Delinquency. To any amount of the special
tax created by this Ordinance which becomes delinquent,
the Marin County Tax Collector shall add a penalty in the
amount equal to any penalty owing for delinquencies in
the ad valorem property tax. The tax and penalty shall bear
interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property tax until paid.

SECTION 7: Effective Date. This Ordinance shall not
become effective unless approved at the June 5,2012 elec-
tion by a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the voting registered
voters within the District. This Ordinance shall become
effective immediately upon the voter approval.

SECTION 8: Four-Year Tax. When approved by the vot-
ers this Ordinance shall remain in effect for a period of
four (4) years.

SECTION 9: Invalidity. If any part of this ordinance is
held to be invalid for any reason, such decision shall not
affect the remaining portion of this Ordinance and the
Board hereby declares that it would have passed the re-
mainder of this Ordinance as if such invalid portion there-
of had been deleted.

SECTION 10: Adoption and Publication. This Ordi-
nance shall be introduced at least five (5) days prior to the
Board meeting at which this Ordinance is to be adopted by

the Board. The full text of this Ordinance shall also be
published once within fifteen (15) days after this Ordi-
nance’s passage by the Board, and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the day of the General Election in which the
voters are to vote on it approval.

SECTION 11: Posting. The District shall post a certified
copy of the full text of this Ordinance, as adopted by the
Board, along with the names of the board members voting
for and against the Ordinance.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 5th day of
March, 2012 by the following vote:

AYES:	Bender, Rudnick, Shaffer

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Fitzpatrick, Lambert

ABSTAIN:	None

s/STEVE SHAFFER
President, Board of Directors
Muir Beach Community Services District

ATTEST:

s/LEIGHTON HILLS
District Manager

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

The Muir Beach Volunteer Fire Department (MBVFD)
runs on the barest of budgets. Measure E will allow the
volunteer firelighters in Muir Beach to continue to provide
critical services, operate in compliance with increasingly
costly state requirements for training and emergency
equipment, and, as any fiscally sound organization, to
build a small reserve to pay for unscheduled but unavoid-
able costs.

Without the parcel tax that has been in place since 2008,
the MBVFD could not build, as it is doing this year, its
sorely needed firehouse to adequately shelter fire trucks
and emergency equipment. Only because of funding re-
sulting from the current parcel tax, plus foundation sup-
port and contributions from the Fireman’s Association,
will the Fire Department, for the first time ever, have an
appropriate and fully functional space for its emergency
equipment and operations.

Year after year the MBVFD has been funded primarily by
money raised by the Fire Association - mainly the annual
BBQ and clothing sales - and by grants the Association
has obtained from government agencies. But these monies
are no longer sufficient. The BBQ and clothing sales pro-
vide about one third of the budget, and government grants
have become scarce. Major expenses are sure to be around
the corner, including replacement of the aged pumper fire
buck. We need to be ready.

The MBVFD gives us fire-fighting protection, in-commu-
nity emergency response coverage, and wild fire abate-
ment services like chipping and brush removal, all of
which arc critically important in our fire-vulnerable envi-
ronment. Our volunteer fire department can save our lives
and it undoubtedly enhances our property values. Measure
E is a small investment for insuring the treasure that Muir
Beach is to all of us.
s/BOB HAYDEN
s/STEVE WYNN
s/LESLIE RIEHL
s/SCOTT BENDER

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E
WAS SUBMITTED.

MB-3