MEASURE A2012
Santa Barbara Unified School District
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

The California Constitution, Article XIIIA, section 4 and the California
Government Code (§ 50075 ef seg.) authorize a school district, upon
approval by a two-thirds vote (2/3) of the voters within the district, to
impose a special tax on real property parcels within the district

; This measure, if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters within the
Santa Barbara Unified School District (the "District"), will authorize the
District to levy a parcel tax of $45 per year against each parcel of land
that lies wholly or partially within District boundaries that has been
assigned an assessor’s parcel number. (The full text of the measure is
printed in the ballot pamphlet.)

The parcel tax is to be levied for four (4) fiscal years, without increase,
beginning in the fiscal year starting July 1,2013 and ending in the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2016, The parcel tax shall be collected in the
same manner and will be subject to the same interest and penalties as
general property taxes and the proceeds will be deposited into a
separate restricted account and shall be used only for the following
specific secondary level educational purposes:

•	Maintaining math, science and technology education;

•	Maintaining music, arts and theater programs;

•	Maintaining foreign language at the secondary level;

•	Attracting and retaining quality teachers without funding for
administrator salaries;

•	Augmenting career skills courses that provide job readiness;

•	Providing a citizens oversight committee; and

•	Providing independent financial audits.

An annual written report will be made to the District’s Board of
Education (the "Board") showing (1) the amount of funds collected and
expended from tax proceeds, (2) the status of any projects or programs
funded by the parcel tax listed above, and (3) an annual independent
financial audit. Tax proceeds shall not be spent on administrative
salaries.

The oversight committee shall advise the Board on expenditures funded
by the measure to ensure funds are only spent by the District for the
purposes stated in the measure. Secondary charter schools authorized
by the District shall share in the tax funding, proportional to the
enrollment of students from the District and will report annually to the
Board and community on how tax funds have been spent,

Any owner that is 65 years of age or older of a parcel used solely for
owner-occupied single-family residential purposes may receive an
exemption from the parcel tax by annually submitting an application by
June 15 of each year to the Board in accordance with the Board’s
adopted rules and regulations.

A YES vote means the measure and parcel tax are APPROVED.

A NO vote means the measure and parcel tax are NOT APPROVED.

/s/ Gustavo E. Lavayen
Chief Deputy County Counsel

5R OQO-OOQ

MEASURE A2012
Santa Barbara Unified School District
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE

Everyone wins when we have successful schools.

Successful schools increase property values and enhance the local
economy. Every dollar invested in our local public schools yields almost
double that in return.

Unfortunately our schools have been decimated by budget cuts and
mandates from the state.

Four years ago, our community chose overwhelmingly to take matters
into its own hands and voted to fund music, arts, math, science and
technology programs. We voted "yes" to take control of how local
revenues are spent in our junior high and high schools. With our votes
we provided critical funding for local education.

Measure A extends this support, which will otherwise expire, and saves
this critical funding that:

•	cannot be taken by the state;

•	requires ALL funds be used locally in the Santa Barbara
Unified School District;

•	cannot be spent on administrator salaries and benefits;

•	requires mandatory independent citizen oversight,

By voting for Measure A2012 our junior high and high school students
will continue to benefit from:

•	Essential math, science, and technology programs

•	Music, art, and theater programs

•	Vital foreign language courses

•	Updated computer and educational technologies

•	Career skill courses for job readiness

To be clear, these programs will no longer exist without the passage of
Measure A2D12. By continuing this funding we are ensuring that our
youth have more of the tools they will need to become productive,
creative, and successful members of our community.

Not only are our youth our future workforce, homebuyers, business
owners, and taxpayers; they are the very future of our community and of
our nation.

Supporting Measure A2012 is a critical investment in our youth and their

education and provides local control. Measure..A2012 enhances the

quality of life for everyone in our community, now and for generations to
come.

Please join us and vote Yes on Measure A2012.

The undersigned authors of the argument in favor of Measure A2012 at
the General Election for the Santa Barbara Unified School District to be
held on November 6, 2012, hereby state that such argument is true and
correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

Is! Jean Blois, Former school board member, Goleta Union School
District, Taxpayer Advocate

Isl Gay Milligin, Real Estate Broker

Isl William J. Cirone, Superintendent, Santa Barbara County of
Education Office

1st Mary Jo Hartle, President, Santa Barbara Music Club, Chamber
Music Society of Santa Barbara

Isl Kristen Kovacs, President, Santa Barbara Area Council of PTAs

MEASURE A2012

Santa Barbara Unified School District

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE

Among the falsehoods cited by the supporters of Measure A2Q12 is the
assertion that essential math, science and foreign language programs
will no longer exist without Its passage. Parcel taxes are less than 1%
of all revenue sources, hardly an amount that would jeopardize these
programs. It is also untrue that this Measure would require independent
citizen oversight. The school committee appoints all overseers and
there is no independent audit of the expenditures.

Much more effective than the small amount of revenue generated by
this Measure would be implementing the far-reaching reforms many of
us have advocated for many years. If the schools weren't saddled with
the devastating lifetime tenure and seniority rules, we wouldn't have had
the sad spectacle of dismissing the Santa Barbara County Teacher of
the Year a few years ago. Eliminating bureaucracy (County Education
Office) and overhauling ineffective curriculum would have far greater
benefit than imposing new taxes.

if anyone thinks this tax is not burdensome, I would urge you to
examine your property tax statement and add up all the parcel taxes.
Not only will property owners face higher taxes but renters will
undoubtedly see their rents go up as well.

Your school committee has hired very expensive consultants with your
tax dollars to bamboozle the voters. The committee placed a similar
measure on the ballot last June so voters wouldn't be voting on this and
other tax initiatives by Governor Brown and Mayor Schneider at the
same time.

Without essential reform, please vote no.

The undersigned author of the rebuttal to the argument in favor of
Measure A2012 at the General Election for the Santa Barbara Unified
School District to be held on November 6, 2012, hereby states that such
argument is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.

Isl Lou Segal, Small business owner and long-time resident of Santa
Barbara

PR-9000-2

SR 000-000

MEASURE A2012

Santa Barbara Unified School District

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE

Although the voters in the Santa Barbara School District have been
bombarded with urgent and dire warnings that a defeat of Measure A
will have severe consequences for their children, I urge you to ignore
these pleas and to send a powerful message to the Santa Barbara
School Board and the entrenched bureaucracy running our schools by
voting NO.

It is an indisputable fact that our public schools have not kept pace with
other countries, and our children are falling behind in an increasingly
global marketplace for highly skilled and high-paying jobs. In 2009,
American 15-year-olds were 31st in math and 23"* in science in the
world. Incredibly, over 70% of students graduating high schools in
Santa Barbara and other cities in California and attending community
colleges were inadequately prepared for college courses, and had to be
placed in remedial English and/or math courses.

The reason for this dismal performance Is not because our schools
have not extracted more money from financially burdened taxpayers,
but because they are badly in need of major reforms that the
bureaucracy, the teacher unions and their allies have mightily resisted.
There is no plausible reason why teachers are granted lifetime tenure,
are paid based on seniority and are effectively shielded from any
reasonable measures to evaluate their performance. It is a disgrace
that these practices along with an antiquated curriculum are allowed to
continue, while many of our children are graduating our public schools
barely able to write a coherent sentence or perform basic math.

I urge all voters to send a powerful and compelling message to the
school board that they will not fork over their hard earned money until
major REFORMS are enacted. Don't let the highly paid consultants
hired with your tax dollars convince you otherwise.

The undersigned author of the argument against Measure A2012 at the
General Election for the Santa Barbara Unified School District to be
held on November 6, 2012 hereby states that this argument is true and
correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.

Is! Lou Segal, Small business owner and long-time resident of Santa
Barbara

MEASURE A2012

Santa Barbara Unified School District

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE

Measure A2012 is about investing in the junior high and high school
youth of Santa Barbara, Goleta, and Montecito. In this era of continued
state budget cuts, Measure A2012 is about maintaining high-quality
educational programs in our public secondary schools, with funds that
are locally controlled.

Voters in 2008 overwhelmingly approved Measure H knowing that
dedicated local funding improves student achievement.

Now, four years later the successes of Measure H have never been
more evident.

The facts speak for themselves:

•	Over 50% of graduates from Santa Barbara Unified School
District's high schools have already met the University of
California eligibility requirements versus 34% for the rest of
Santa Barbara County:

•	11th and 1201 grade students in Santa Barbara Unified School
District high schools score over 50 points higher in all SAT
college entrance exams as compared to the rest of the state
of California;

•	Graduates of the class of 2012 will be attending every
University of California, every California State University, MIT,
Harvard, Harvey Mudd, Cornell, Princeton, Yale, Claremont
McKenna, Columbia, Stanford, University of Southern
California and many other colleges and universities in the
United States and around the world;

•	Over 50% of Santa Barbara Unified School District high
schools students in the class of 2013 will be enrolled as 12lh
graders in a college level English class.

We owe it to our students to continue to provide the educational
enhancements and programs provided by Measure H.

By voting YES on Measure A2012 you will be ensuring the continued
success of our students throughout the Santa Barbara Unified School
District for another four years.

The undersigned authors of the rebuttal to the argument against
Measure A2D12 at the General Election for the Santa Barbara Unified
School District to be held on November 6, 2012, hereby state that such
argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

7s/ David E. Cash, Ed.D., Superintendent, Santa Barbara Unified
School District

1st William J. Cirone, Superintendent, Santa Barbara County
Education Office

1st Maya Upton, Santa Barbara High School Parent & PTA President

1st Peter MacDougall, President Emeritus, Santa Barbara City College

Is I Joseph Campanelli, Parent of two recent SBHS graduates;
Director, Santa Barbara Contractors Association Education
Foundation

MEASURE A2012
Santa Barbara Unified School District
FULL TEXT OF THE MEASURE

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To offset severe state budget cuts to our junior and senior high schools by continuing to provide dedicated local funding that cannot be taken by
the State and to maintain and protect the high quality of secondary school programs, the Santa Barbara Unified School District proposes to adopt
a secondary education parcel tax for a period of 4 years, beginning July 1, 2013, at the rate of $45 per year, on each parcel located within the
Santa Barbara Unified School District, with an exemption available for senior citizens, and with accountability measures in connection with the
special assessment that are over and above those required by law, including independent financial audits and the mandatory appointment of an
independent citizen's review committee to provide oversight and accountability, to be used for the following secondary level purposes:

•	Maintaining and protecting math, science, and technology education;

•	Maintaining and protecting music, arts and theater programs;

•	Maintaining and protecting foreign language at the secondary level;

•	Augmenting career skills courses that provide job readiness; and

•	Attracting and retaining quality teachers without funding administrator salaries or benefits

AMOUNT OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT

The secondary education parcel tax shall be $45 per year for four (4) years assessed against each parcel within the boundaries of the Santa
Barbara Unified School District. The proceeds of the secondary education parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the
District.

DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"

For purposes of the special tax, the term “Parcel" means any parcel of land that lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Santa Barbara
High School District, for which the Assessor of the County of Santa Barbara, as applicable, has assigned an assessor's parcel number.

EXEMPTION OF SENIORS

Pursuant to California Government Code section 50079(b), any owners who are 65 years of age or older of a Parcel used solely for owner-
occupied, single-family residential purposes may obtain an exemption from the secondary education parcel tax by annually submitting an
application by June 15 of each year to the Board of Education of the Santa Barbara Unified School District in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the Board.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among
others, shall apply to the secondary education parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the secondary
education parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the secondary education parcel tax shall be applied only to
those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special restricted fund shall be created into which the proceeds of the secondary
education parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the District showing (i) the
amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the secondary education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs
required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the secondary education parcel tax, as identified above.

In addition to the accountability measures required by [aw, there shall be an annual independent financial audit performed and a mandatory
independent community oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Education to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the
measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The oversight committee will monitor the
expenditures of these funds by the District and its charter schools will report on an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds
have been spent.

DISTRIBUTION OF PARCEL TAX FUNDS

Secondary charter schools authorized by the district shall share in the parcel tax funding, proportional to the enrollment of secondary charter
students in Santa Barbara Unified School District secondary schools,

