IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q
“INCREASE THE HOTEL TAX TO
TEN PERCENT (10%) WITHIN COUNTY”

The Amador County Board of Supervisors proposes to increase the
iransient occupancy tax, which is often referred to as a “hotel tax,”
from 6% to 10% within the unincorporated areas of the County in
order to be consistent with the 10% hotel tax imposed by the cities
of Jackson, Sutter Creek and lone. This tax is primarily paid by
visitors to Amador County and applies only to stays of 30 days or
less. The hotel guest pays the tax and the hotel operator collects
the tax and regularly sends the funds to the County.

The hotel tax in the unincorporated County has been 6% since
before 1978. The cities of Jackson, Sutter Creek and lone are currently
collecting a 10% hotel tax. Amador County Code Section 3.16.020
defines a “hotel” as “any structure, or any portion of a structure,
which is occupied or designated for occupancy by transients for
dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn,
tourist home or house, bed-and-breakfast house, motel, studio, hotel,
bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a
fixed location, or other similar structure or portion thereof.”

This hotel tax increase will be effective only if Measure Q is approved
by a majority of the qualified voters. If approved by the voters, the
increased hotel tax will become effective on December 1, 2012.

Measure Q is a general tax, which means that the proceeds received
from the tax can be placed in the general fund for expenditure in
accordance with the adopted County budget. The additional revenue
generated could fund general services, including parks, law
enforcement services, and maintenance of roads and other public
property, as determined by the Board of Supervisors. However,
historically, most of the funds raised by this hotel tax have been
used for tourism promotion in the County. This hotel tax will be
permanent. It will be collected until it is repealed by the voters.

A “yes” vote on Measure Q is a vote to approve and authorize an
increase in the existing hotel tax from 6% to 10% to a level consistent
with the cities of Jackson, Sutter Creek, and lone.

A “no” vote on Measure Q would not increase the hotel tax, leaving
the hotel tax at its current 6%.

si Gregory G. Gillott, County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Q.
If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please
call the elections official's office at (209) 223-6465 and a
copy will be mailed at no cost to you. You may also access
the full text of the measure on the county Web site at the
following Web site address: www.amadorgov.org/Elections.

FISCAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY AUDITOR-CONTROLLER
MEASURE Q

An increase from 6% to 10% of the Transient Occupancy Tax if
approved by the voters on November 6th, 2012 will raise approximately
$64,300 additional Transient Room Occupancy tax revenue for the
fiscal year.

s/ Eugene J. Lowe, Auditor-Controller

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

Measure Q is a true "win-win" proposition for everyone in Amador
County. Measure Q will generate approximately $64,000.00 annually
by increasing the "Tourist Occupancy Tax" (TOT) from 6% to 10%.
Visitors pay the "tourist occupancy tax" when they stay in hotels
and inns.

The new money paid by tourists, not local taxpayers, will go into
the general fund of Amador County. It is anticipated that the additional
monies go to Tourism Promotion.

Will increasing the TOT decrease in visitations to the County? No!
The 10% rate proposed equals the statewide average and brings
the county rate in line with the majority of cities in Amador County
as well as neighboring counties.

Tourism is one of our most important economic forces and
prime sources of jobs. Over 10% of Amador County jobs depend
on tourism. Tourists spend millions of dollars each year that sustain
many local businesses. The TOT increase will generate additional
jobs. This in turn generates more tax dollars to fund essential local
government jobs and services.

Measure Q promotes Amador County and generates jobs. That
is why Measure Q is supported by the Amador Council of Tourism,
Bed and Breakfast Inns of Amador County, Amador County Chamber
of Commerce, Amador County Business Council and many others.

si Tracey Towner, President,

Amador Council of Tourism

si Tracey Berkner, Owner,

Volcano Union Inn & Taste Restaurant

si Jim Gullett, Owner,

Vino Noceto

si Mark Borchin, President,

Amador County Chamber of Commerce

si Anne Platt, President,

Amador County Business Council

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

03-501