

<resolution> Full Text

“Shall the San Mateo County Critical Services Ordinance, providing
for the imposition of one-half cent transaction (sales) and use tax
for a period of ten (10) years, be approved to read as follows:

AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING A ONE-HALF CENT
RETAIL TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX FOR
GENERAL FUND PURPOSES IN THE COUNTY OF SAN
MATEO FOR A PERIOD OF TEN (10) YEARS

WHEREAS, the County of San Mateo continues to face increased
demand for, and expenses in providing, essential County services
and facilities that its residents rely on, such as:

•	Maintaining child abuse protection programs;

•	Maintaining 911 emergency dispatch services;

•	Maintaining healthcare for low-income children, seniors and
disabled;

•	Maintaining fire prevention and response;

•	Maintaining pre-school after-school and library programs for
children and teens, including reading programs and homework
centers;

•	Keeping county parks open;

•	Maintaining county-wide gang and drug task forces;

•	Providing neighborhood health clinics;

•	Maintaining adequate jail staffing;

•	Ensuring that hospitals in the county, including Seton Medical
Center, are earthquake safe, maintain long term care beds
for low-income patients requiring more intensive care than
nursing facilities can provide, and expand and improve
the overall quality of health care in the County, including
emergency services and advanced medical technology to
reduce emergency room wait times and increase capacity and
efficiency for county residents;

•	Ensuring that Medi-Cal patients and applicants for Medi-Cal
benefits referred by the Health Plan of San Mateo (HPSM)
receive appropriate and timely inpatient and outpatient
services;

WHEREAS, the Board is considering whether to use general funds
to provide substantial assistance to Seton Medical Center to rebuild
to meet seismic standards so that it can continue providing critical
healthcare services in the community; and

WHEREAS, without additional revenue, the County of San Mateo
will be hampered in providing these and other essential County
services.

The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo, State of
California, ORDAINS as follows: <resolutionend>





<full> SECTION 1. Chapter 5.150, consisting of sections 5.150.010
through 5.150.160, is hereby added to Title 5 of the San Mateo
Ordinance Code to read as follows:

CHAPTER 5.150 - TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX

SECTION 5.150.010. TITLE. This Chapter shall be known as
the County of San Mateo Retail Transactions (Sales) and Use Tax
Ordinance. The County of San Mateo shall hereinafter be called
“County.” This Chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County.

SECTION 5.150.020. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date”
means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the effective date of the ordinance adding this
Chapter.

SECTION 5.150.030. PURPOSE. This Chapter is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and the provisions
hereof shall be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To generate revenue that will be placed in the general fund
to support general County services and functions.

B.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 which authorizes the County to adopt this tax ordinance,
which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax
Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Tax Code.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes
a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered
and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that
adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can
be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this Chapter.

SECTION 5.150.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the
Operative Date, the County shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration
and operation of this Chapter; provided, that if the County shall not
have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
Operative Date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case
the Operative Date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following execution of the such a contract.

SECTION 5.150.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For

the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax
is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the Operative Date.

SECTION 5.150.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this
Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when
such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless
of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

SECTION 5.150.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby
imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the County
of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the Operative Date for storage, use or other consumption in
said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

SECTION 5.150.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF
STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this Chapter as though fully set forth herein.

SECTION 5.150.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF
STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAX. In adopting
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this County shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board
of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State
of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to
be taken by or against the County or any agency, officer, or
employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board
of Equalization in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Chapter;

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumptions remain subject to tax by the State under
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation code; or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not be subject to tax by the state under the
said provision of that code.

4.	The word “State” appears in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in
the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “County” shall be substituted for the word “State” in
the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

SECTION 5.150.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s
permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall
not be required by this Chapter.

SECTION 5.150.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions
tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed
by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law, or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use
tax, as a result of the following:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property under the authority
of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is
shipped to a point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of
sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee
at such point. For purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a
point outside the County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-County address and by declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to
a place of business out-of-County and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not
to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

B.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Chapter,
the storage, use or other consumption in this County of tangible
personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions
and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate
of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws
of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for
a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which
is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of
time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise
of, any right or power over tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged
in business in the County shall not be required to collect use
tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the County
or participates within the County in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving
the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the County or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under
the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the County” shall also
include any retailer of any of the following vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser
who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the County.

C.	Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a City or County imposing, or retailer liable
for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person
of the property, the storage, use, or other consumption, which is
subject to the use tax.

SECTION 5.150.120. AMENDMENTS. All amendments to Part
1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code that are made
subsequent to the effective date of this Chapter relating to sales and
use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, shall automatically become a part of this Chapter, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the
rate of tax imposed by this Chapter or the duration thereof.

SECTION 5.150.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION
FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in

any court against the State or the County, or against any officer of
the State or the County, to prevent or enjoin the collection under
this Chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION 5.150.140. AUDIT. Within 60 days of the Operative
Date, the Board of Supervisors will designate, by resolution, a
committee to perform an annual audit of the general fund revenues
generated by this Retail Transactions (Sales) and Use Tax.

SECTION 5.150.150. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this
Chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is
held to be invalid, the remainder of the Chapter and the application
of such provisions to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.

SECTION 5.150.160. SUNSET. The tax imposed by this Chapter
shall be imposed for ten years from the Operative Date of the tax as
defined in section 5.150.020 of this Chapter and, thereafter, shall no
longer be imposed.

SECTION 2. This ordinance shall take effect thirty days after its
final adoption by the Board of Supervisors by a two-thirds vote,
or upon adoption by a majority vote of the electorate of the ballot
measure described in Section 6 and 7 of this Board of Supervisors
Resolution No. 072107, whichever date is later, provided that the
ordinance shall only take effect if it is approved by both the Board
of Supervisors and the electorate.” <fullend>





<impartial> Impartial Analysis of Measure A

The California Constitution and state law authorize the County
of San Mateo Board of Supervisors to propose to voters a general tax.
The Government Code and Revenue and Taxation Code provide the
measure passes if a majority of those voting on it approve it.

By this measure, the Board of Supervisors proposes to add
Chapter 5.150 to the San Mateo County Ordinance Code. A
copy of the proposed ordinance is printed in the sample ballot.
The ordinance would impose a sales tax on retail transactions
throughout the entire County at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%)
on the gross receipts of retailers from the retail sale of tangible
personal property within the County. The ordinance also imposes
a use tax on the storage, use, or consumption, within the County, of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer. The use tax
would be at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%) of the sales price of
the property. The operative date of the sales and use tax is April 1,
2013, and the tax will remain in effect for a period of ten years, after
which it expires.

The ordinance contains certain exemptions and exclusions
to the sales and use tax, and the full text of the ordinance should
be consulted for further specifics regarding such exemptions and
exclusions.

The proceeds of the tax will be placed in the County’s general
fund to support general County services and functions. The Board
of Supervisors has not committed these funds to a specific purpose
but identifies the following County-provided services as essential
services facing growing demand and increasing costs:	library

programs; child welfare; healthcare; and emergency, fire, safety,
and medical services. The Board of Supervisors also indicates it
is considering use of general funds to help Seton Medical Center
rebuild to meet seismic standards.

The ordinance adopts certain provisions of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to the imposition,
administration, and collection of sales and use taxes, including
exceptions, collection, overpayments, refunds, and violations.

A “yes” vote on this measure is a vote to approve and
authorize the imposition of the general sales and use tax at
the rate of 0.5%, as described above and as will be set forth
in Chapter 5.150 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code.
The tax would be used to support general County services
and functions.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the County to
impose the proposed general sales and use tax.

This measure passes if a majority of those voting on the
measure vote “yes.” <impartialend>





<favor> Argument in Favor of Measure A

From the Coastside to the Baylands and everywhere in between,
we proudly call San Mateo County our home. However, due to
continued cuts from the State, San Mateo County faces an ongoing
structural deficit of tens of millions of dollars - much of what we
love about living here is at risk.

In response to this declining revenue over the past five years,
San Mateo County eliminated over 500 positions, de-funded vital
programs and according to the Civil Grand Jury, our Emergency
Operations Center has fallen below acceptable standards. Current
employees have done their part by agreeing to pay more for health
care and retirement. Local leaders have cut the budget to the bone
and further reductions to crucial emergency services and others
could put residents at risk.

By voting YES on Measure A we will generate the funding to Save
our Services in San Mateo County, including:

•	Child abuse prevention

•	911	emergency	dispatch

•	Healthcare for low-income children, seniors and the disabled

•	Fire prevention and response

•	Pre-school, after-school and library reading programs and
homework centers for children and teens

•	Keeping county parks open

•	Ensuring hospitals and emergency rooms are seismically
safe and remain open

By law, Measure A funds cannot be taken away by the State. An
independent oversight committee and annual audits will ensure
that every penny is accounted for and spent on crucial San Mateo
County services like those listed in Measure A.

Vote YES on A to provide locally controlled funds to sustain the
quality of life we appreciate in San Mateo County by improving
direct services in every community, including Atherton, Belmont,
Brisbane, Broadmoor, Burlingame, Colma, Daly City, East Palo
Alto, El Granada, Emerald Hills, Foster City, Half Moon Bay,
Hillsborough, La Honda, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Montara, Moss
Beach, North Fair Oaks, Pacifica, Pescadero, Portola Valley,
Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, South San
Francisco and Woodside.

Join San Mateo County residents, business, community and
healthcare leaders - vote YES on Measure A - Save Our Services.<favorend>




<favorsigs> www.saveourservicesnow.org

/s/	Adrienne J. Tissier	August	15,2012

President, Board of Supervisors

/s/	Michael Garb	August	15,2012

Advocate for Children’s Service and Abuse Prevention

/s/	Maya Altman	August	15,2012

CEO, Health Plan of San Mateo

/s/	Anthony L. Slimick	August	16,2012

President San Mateo County Firefighters Local 2400

/s/	Julia Bott	August	15,2012

Executive Director, San Mateo County Parks Foundation <favorsigsend>




<rebutfavor> Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure A

San Mateo County blames its “structural deficit” on
“cuts from the State”.

What a whopper!

Actually, irresponsible spending on employee salaries and
benefits is to blame:

San Mateo County Budget. All Funds

	2003-04	2012-13	Increase
Revenue	$984,815,521	$1,453,674,876	48%
Salaries/ benefits per permanent employee	$80,500	$135,761	69%

In 2007, the County Manager warned:

“Rapidly increasing salaries and benefits are one of the factors
causing the structural deficit... Will future County salary
and benefit increases be consistent with revenue growth and/or
productivity increases? ”

Five years along, we know the answer to that question - NO 1

Proponents warn that ‘further reductions to crucial emergency
services and others could put residents at risk”.

There’s an ugly word for this threat: BLACKMAIL !

San Mateo County Supervisors have chosen to cut staff and reduce
services to citizens, rather than address the real issue:

Out-of-control San Mateo County employee compensation 1

Our Supervisors dare not annoy the public employee unions.
Instead, they expect taxpayers to approve ever-increasing taxes
to sustain public employee compensation almost twice that of
the average taxpayer. Notice to taxpayers: blackmail never stops!
They’ll be back with more demands in future.

Higher sales taxes hurt local businesses, and increase unemployment.
Worse yet, they are regressive and hit the poor hardest of all. 

Measure A proponents should be deeply ashamed of their support
for a tax that so hurts the poor and rewards the well off

VOTE NO ON MEASURE A ! <rebutfavorend>





<rebutfavorsigs> For more information: http://www.SVTaxpayers.org/measurea

/s/	John Boeder	August	17,2012

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/	Harland Harrison	August	27,2012

Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County CA

/s/	Don Pettengill	August	27,2012

Half Moon Bay Resident <rebutfavorsigsend>





<against> Argument Against Measure A

Suddenly, the Board of Supervisors has noticed that “without
additional revenue, the County of San Mateo will be hampered ...
in providing essential County services”. Yes, demand for services
goes up in hard times, as consumers and taxpayers suffer economic
decline. But who’s going to raise their revenue?

If taxpayers have to tighten their belts, why can’t government
tighten its belt?

With Measure A, San Mateo County government gets to loosen
its belt while the rest of us get to punch another hole in ours to
tighten it even further. That’s not right! Everyone must pitch
in. It’s unfair to ask taxpayers to further support unsustainable
employee compensation and pensions. According to the County’s
recommended 2012-2013 Budget, average full-time permanent
county employee salary plus benefits will be $135,761, way above
what the average taxpayer brings in. Are they working for us, or are
we working for them?

A sales tax increase will hurt local businesses. And it falls hardest
on the poor, who already suffer most in economic downturns:

“Sales taxes are among the most regressive forms of taxation.
Consumers with moderate or low incomes have to sacrifice
much larger portions of their incomes on sales taxes than do
wealthy consumers”.

(Robert Reich, Secretary of Labor under President Clinton, and
presently Professor of Public Policy at UC Berkeley, in an NPR
interview)

In 1960, sales tax was only 3%. Raising sales taxes sure did not fix
California’s budget problems, and it won’t fix San Mateo County’s
budget problems, either. We need serious budget reform - not more
taxes.

All higher taxes do is make it harder for regular people to make
ends meet, and further raise the already high cost of living in San
Mateo County. The poor are, as usual the hardest hit.

Think of the poor before you vote.
 VOTE NO ON MEASURE A <againstend>



<againstsigs> For more information: http://www.svtaxpayers.org/measurea

/s/	John Roeder	August	17,2012

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/	Harland Harrison	August	17,2012

Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County CA

/s/	Don Pettengill	August	17,2012

Half Moon Bay Resident <againstsigsend>




<rebutagainst> Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure A

While all groups have a right to express their opinion, the stakes are
too important to be swayed by fringe perspectives and misleading
statements. In fact a primary opposing argument signer won’t be
affected by the cuts because he doesn’t live in San Mateo County.

Massive cuts have been made and the critical services we depend
on will be endangered if Measure A does not pass. Please review
the facts:

Fact: Measure A revenue is critical for public safety. According
to the Civil Grand Jury, our Emergency Operations Center, critical
during an earthquake or natural disaster, has fallen below acceptable
standards.

Fact: All funds Stay Local- Every penny from Measure A will
benefit San Mateo County residents, cannot be taken by the state,
and support local services such as:

•	Child abuse prevention

•	911 emergency dispatch

•	Healthcare for low-income children, seniors and the disabled

•	Fire prevention and response

•	Pre-school, after-school and library reading programs and
homework centers for children and teens

•	Keeping county parks open

•	Ensuring hospitals and emergency rooms are seismically safe
and remain open

Fact: Tightening the Belt- San Mateo County has made significant
budget reductions and cut over 500 positions. County salaries have
been frozen since 2008, retirement benefits cut, and employees pay
more for health care.

Fact: Low income residents need our help-San Mateo County’s
low income and uninsured families, children, seniors and the
disabled rely on the healthcare and educational services that would
receive vital Measure A funding.

Please join us and Vote Yes on A to Save our Services. <rebutagainstend>



<rebutagainstsigs> /s/	Don Horsley  Supervisor	August 24, 2012
/s/	Debra Amour  Registered Nurse, Intensive Care	August 27, 2012
/s/	Armando Muela	August 26, 2012
	Retired Fire Chief, Woodside Fire Protection District	
/s/	Anne Campbell	August 24, 2012
	San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools	
/s/	Lenore L. (Lennie) Roberts  San Mateo County Parks Advocate	August 24, 2012 <rebutagainstsigsend>