CITY OF CORONADO
Member of the City Council

RICHARD BAILEY
Financial Analyst

I am running for city council because it is time for the next generation of Coronado leaders to step
up, get involved, and ensure that Coronado today remains Coronado tomorrow.

The City of Coronado is quite possibly the best place to call home. Our city has a rich history, an
engaged community, and an unsurpassed charming village atmosphere.

But our city is not without challenges.

We face an overbuilding problem that threatens our village character. We face an uncertain
financial future as California forces the closure of our Community Development Agency. And
above all, we face a shrinking sense of what makes our city best, a sense of community.

If elected, my motto will be "Coronado First" as I will always vote for the preservation of our
village neighborhood and against the development of "McManslons." My education and
professional experience with finance make me qualified to budget effectively for the years ahead
so we remain a fiscally sound municipality. I am running for Coronado City Council because
Coronado is my home and the community where my wife and I will raise our family one day.

I respectfully ask for your vote and trust to lead the City of Coronado.

CS-09C0-4

N SD 400-024

Measure F

(This proposition will appear on (he ballot in the following form.)

PROPF

MEASURE: F, APPROVING AN INCREASE TO THE CITY OF CORONADO’S TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX

Shall the Ordinance Amending Coronado’s Municipal Code to Increase the City's Transient
Occupancy Tax (Hotel Tax) from Eight to Ten Percent be Adopted?

This proposition requires approval by 50%
of the voters voting on the proposition.

Full text of this proposition follows the argument.

IMPARTIAL CITY ATTORNEY ANALYSIS OF BALLOT MEASURE F

Measure F proposes to increase the City of Coronado's current Transient Occupancy Tax ("TOT")
from 8% to 10%. The TOT, also known as a hotel tax, is imposed only on hotel visitors who visit
the City of Coronado for 25 consecutive days or less. The City's Municipal Code defines "hotel"
as any structure, or portion of any structure, which is occupied, or intended, or designed for
occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes. The tax is collected by hotel
operators based on the rent paid by a person to occupy a hotel and transmitted to the City.

The City's existing TOT rate of 8% has been in effect since 1995. If passed, Measure F would
amend the City's Municipal Code to increase the TOT rate by two percent (2%) and establish the
total rate of 10%. Measure F does not change the City's Municipal Code in any other manner.

Measure F is a general tax and would be deposited in the City's general fund to be used for any
general governmental purpose of the City. Services commonly supported from the City's general
fund include police, fire, beach lifeguards, parks, library, capital improvements, public facilities
maintenance, non-enterprise public works (such as beach grooming), and general government
functions that support them (financial, personnel, administration, insurance, etc). Measure F must
be approved by a majority of the votes cast by the qualified voters of the City to take effect.

A "yes" vote for Measure F will increase the existing TOT from 8% to 10%.

A "no" vote against Measure F will leave in place the existing TOT rate of 8%.

Prepared by: Johanna N. Canlas, City Attorney City of Coronado

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure F. If you desire a copy of the ordinance,
please call the election official's office at (619) 522-7321 and a copy will be provided at no cost to
you.

PR-09C0-1

NSD 400-025

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

As of February 1, 2012, the State of California dissolved all redevelopment agencies throughout
the state, including our own Community Development Agency (CDA). Our CDA was responsible
for funding the construction of fundamental public structures and facilities that include City Hall,
the Community Center, the Police Station, the Animal Control Facility, our Library's remodel, the
Lawn Bowling Green, affordable senior housing, our elementary and secondary public schools,
and a host of other protects. With the disestablishment of the CDA, there is no longer a dedicated
funding source for the construction of important public facilities like a Senior Center or for the
maintenance of the public structures that we already have in existence. The burden for the
maintenance and replacement of these buildings therefore falls upon the shoulders of the City of
Coronado and her taxpayers. Raising the TOT will net the City approximately two million dollars
per year of new revenue to help protect the City’s finances against future threats and will give the
City greater ability to budget for foreseen and unforeseen responsibilities that we and our children
will face in the decades to come. The revenue that we would reap from an increase in the TOT
would be borne by visitors to our hotels. They place demands on our city, while they benefit from
Coronado’s excellent city services. Through TOT they share that burden with our own Coronado
taxpayers.

If Coronado's TOT went from 8% to 10%, Coronado would still maintain one of the lowest TOT
rates in San Diego County.

Please vote yes to bring our TOT rate in line with the rest of San Diego County and to bring your
city government the revenues needed to maintain our public structures and vital services.

CASEY TANAKA
Mayor of Coronado

MICHAEL J.WOIWODE
Mayor Pro-Tern of Coronado

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F

No argument against the proposition was filed in the office of the City Clerk of Coronado.

PR-09C0-2

N SD 400-026

TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, the City of Coronado (“City") currently imposes a transient
occupancy tax at the rate of eight percent (8%) upon guests of hotels and other transient
accommodations located throughout the City; and

WHEREAS, the City has not increased the transient occupancy tax rate since
1995; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to increase and establish the rate for the City's
transient occupancy tax to ten percent (10%) to be imposed on guests of hotels and other
transient accommodations located throughout the City.

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CORONADO DOES ORDAIN as

follows:

Section 1. Section 16.12.030 of Chapter 16.12 of Title 16 of the Coronado Municipal Code
shall be amended to read in its entirety as follows:

16.12.030. Imposition

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax
in the amount of ten percent (10%), of the rent owed by the transient to the City, which is
extinguished only by payment to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the
rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each
installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in
the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the City
Treasurer may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the City Treasurer.

PR-09C0-3

N SD 400-027