BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
Jurisdiction Name: Cj^gbot_Lag posjtas CCD	Election Da,c:November g ^

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.
Insert ballot question text here:

j “To provide Chabot and Las Positas Community Colleges funds that cannot be
1 taken by the state, ensure affordable quality education, prepare students for
! university transfer, maintain job training in healthcare, technology, public
safety, and other areas, uphold core academics, and preserve student support
j services, shall Chabot-Las Positas Community College District levy $28 per
parcel annually for six years with Citizens' Oversight, no money for permanent
| salaries, and all funds spent on local colleges?"

Yes

No

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

Two-Thirds (66.6%)

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

f~71 YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along xvith this form)

□ no

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

Print Name:

Jeffrey M. Kingston

Date:

8/7/2012

ice use)

CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)

Phone #:

Phone #: (925) 485-5208

E-Mail:

E-Mail/Website: www.clpccd.org

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

ANALYSIS BY THE COUNTY COUNSEL OF A
CHABOT-LAS POSITAS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE

Measure I is a Chabot-Las Positas Community College District ("District") special parcel
tax measure. Measure I seeks voter approval of a special parcel tax on all parcels for a period
of six years, beginning July 1,2013. This measure would levy twenty-eight dollars ($28.00) on
each parcel within the District annually. The measure defines “parcel” as any parcel of land that
lies wholly or partially within the District’s boundaries that receives a separate tax bill for ad
valorem property taxes.

Community college districts have the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by
two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposals pursuant to the provisions of Article
XIIIA, Section 4 of the California Constitution and Sections 50075-50077, 50079.1, and 53722 of
the California Government Code.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the special
tax described above will be imposed annually for six years. The tax will be collected by the
Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector and Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector,
depending on where the parcel is located, at the same time and in the same manner as ad
valorem property taxes are collected.

If this measure passes, the funding revenue will be used for the specific purposes set
forth in the full text of the measure printed in this sample ballot, including: updating classroom
technology; maintaining core academic classes, such as math, science, and English; preserving
student support services; and preparing students to transfer to four-year universities. The
measure provides that the monies collected shall be accounted for separately and shall be
expended only for those specified purposes. The monies collected will not be used to pay
administrators’ salaries or benefits. An independent citizens’ oversight committee shall monitor
the expenditures of the monies and shall report annually to the community.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the District will not be authorized to levy the special tax.

DONNA R. ZIEGLER
County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure I, which is printed in full in this
sample ballot pamphlet. If you desire an additional copy of the measure, please call the
Elections Official’s office at (510) 272-6933 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. You
may also access the full text of the measure on the Alameda County website at the following
address: www.acqov.org/rov/.

Chabot-Las Positas CCD Ballot Argument

We strongly urge you to vote Yes on Measure I for Chabot College and Las Positas
College.

Because State budget cuts have slashed funding for our local community colleges,
thousands of local students are being turned away from the classes they need to
transfer to a four-year university or to prepare for their careers.

Measure I will ensure that the students at Chabot College and Las Positas College get
the core classes they need to succeed.

Chabot College and Las Positas College are vital to the higher education of our
community. They serve as safety nets for our local students, providing access to
college courses that many might otherwise be unable to afford.

Measure I will allow Chabot College and Las Positas College to remain a leading
source of training our community for jobs of the 21st Century.

Measure I will allow Chabot College and Las Positas College to:

•	Protect core academic programs in science, math and English

•	Restore funding to increase access to classes and lab offerings

•	Update classroom technology

•	Maintaining student support services

•	Maintain and enhance job training programs to prepare adults for jobs in the

new economy

With Measure I:

•	Every penny will stay at Chabot College and Las Positas College

•	Funds cannot be taken away by the State

•	Independent citizens' oversight will ensure that funds are spent as promised

•	No funds will be used for administrators' salaries

Please join us in supporting Measure I to give Chabot College and Las Positas College
the resources to restore core programs and classes and remain a vital local
educational source.

Argument In Favor of Measure I
Signers

1.	Ellen M. Corbett
California State Senator

2.	Dale Eldridge Kays

President/CEO Livermore Valley Chamber of Commerce

3.	Patrick M. Lofft

Member Alameda Tax Payer Association; Accountant

4.	Janet Lockhart

Las Positas Foundation Board Past Chair, Former Dublin Mayor

5.	Francisco Zermeno

Hayward City Councilman, Professor, Chabot College

Resolution No. 03-1213
July 31,2012
Page 3

Section 7. The Board hereby requests that each of the Alameda County Registrar of
Voters and Contra Costa County Registrar of Voters submit the following measure to the
voters of the District and to print this entire Full Ballot Text in the ballot pamphlet:

CHABOT-LAS POSH AS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY MEASURE
Chabot-Las Positas Community College District

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To protect Chabot College and Las Positas College from State budget cuts,
provide local funding that cannot be taken away by the State and preserve
affordable, quality education for students, Chabot-Las Positas Community
College District proposes to establish an education parcel tax for a period of
six years, beginning July 1, 2013, at the rate of $28 per year, on each
assessor’s parcel located within the Chabot-Las Positas Community College
District, and to implement accountability measures in connection with the
temporary levy to ensure the funds are used to:

(a)	update classrooms technology;

(b)	maintain core academic classes such as math, science, and English;

(c)	attract and retain high quality teachers;

(d)	restore funding to increase the number of classes and lab offerings;

(e)	prepare students to transfer to four-year colleges and universities in
a timely manner;

(f)	maintain job training programs to help prepare adults for 21st
Century jobs; and

(g)	preserve student support services.

AMOUNT OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT

The education parcel tax shall be $28 (or less as provided below) per year
for six (6) full years assessed against each parcel.

The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate
account created by the District.

Resolution No. 03-1213
July 31, 2012
Page 4

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the special tax, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of land
which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Chabot-Las
Positas Community College District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad
valorem property taxes from either the Alameda County or Contra Costa
Comity Assessor/Tax Collector’s office. All property that is otherwise
exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any
year shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this special tax, any such “Parcels” which are (i)
contiguous, (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by the owner
submitting evidence of such facts by June 15 of any year to the Board of
Trustees of the Chabot-Las Positas Community College District, be treated
as a single “parcel” for purposes of the levy of this education parcel tax.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT
SUPPORT

The collection of the education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or
offset any increase in local, state or federal government sources that would
otherwise be available to the Chabot-Las Positas Community College
District during the period of the education parcel tax. In the event that the
levy and collection does have such an effect, the Chabot-Las Positas
Community College District shall cease the levy or shall reduce the
education parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount
of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

EXEMPTIONS FROM THE TAX

Current applicable California law does not provide any exemptions from the
payment of the educational parcel tax, including exemptions for owners of
parcels who are either 65 years of age or older or receive Supplemental
Social Security income for a disability, regardless of age. However, in the
event applicable law changes during the term of this educational parcel tax,
the District intends to grant both seniors and disabled persons receiving SSI
an exemption, to the extent legally permissible.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code
Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures,
among others, shall apply to the education parcel tax levied in accordance
with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall
be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the education parcel

Resolution No. 03-1213
My 31,2012
Page 5

tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a
separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the
education parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report
shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the
amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the education
parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or
authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the education parcel tax, as
identified above.

Under no circumstances shall any of the proceeds of the educational special
parcel tax be used for administrators’ salaries or benefits. Parcel tax
proceeds shall only be spent for Chabot College and Las Positas College.

CITIZEN OVERSIGHT

In addition to the accountability measures required by State law, an
Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to
monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on an
annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds have been

spent.

*End of Full Ballot Text of Measure*

The abbreviated text of the ballot proposition with respect to the foregoing measure
shall read as follows:

“To provide Chabot and Las Positas Community Colleges funds that cannot be
taken by the state, ensure affordable quality education, prepare students for
university transfer, maintain job training in healthcare, technology, public safety,
and other areas, uphold core academics, and preserve student support services, shall
Chabot-Las Positas Community College District levy $28 per parcel annually for
six years with Citizens' Oversight, no money for permanent salaries, and all funds
spent on local colleges?”

Yes	No