yDebera enmendarse la Carta de la Ciudad de Indian Wells para limitar: a menos que sea requerido por ley federal o estafal, el monfo de la indemnizacion a 1)
Miembros del Concejo Municipal a $1 ;000, 2) el Alcalde a $1,500 y 3) el Alcalde Interino a $1,250 por mes, sujeto a un ajuste anual del CPI, mas el reembolso de
los gastos razonables incurridos en el ejercicio de sus funciones y aprobado previamente por el Consejo de la Ciudad?

SAMPLE BALLOT/ BOLETA EJEMPLAR

lN-«£¥3

t t

1 A

m

3 ow
3>< s
crn-
= O 5

Si®

32.Q

Isl

s-l?

S s'a

!!s

s

co 2



o a-

r-oli

L Er CD

i *

i *

O ^O-

2 ^ V)
g, ^ co

Cl
CD

CD-

CT C/>

3
m

13

S'

2. c o ,

3 Q-O-,

S' § ^

iSgg,

^ 3 “-§

co -a “ 5T

-1 Of? O OJ

8 5J“2. o

£ a

&|S-|

§>•§-£



2.-P

Q-;

5T !

CD

® “ a

r-a

> CD

:I5

rs' o'

Z

o

•<

I

cp

1 1

m O rt>
™ </q ™

O S3 -5

!'-§ ar

.2.8 Q,
0 q.2

q5

o >a
i-FT53

id'

„ CD

8 8

CD CD

e?o

§■

avidwars wiaioy jL<m^a 3 -di/uvs

MEASURE(S) SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS / MEDIDA(S) SOMETIDA(S) A LOS VOTANTES

CITY/CIUDAD
CITY OF INDIAN WELLS / CIUDAD DE INDIAN WELLS

MEASURE “R” - CITY OF INDIAN WELLS

EXHIBIT “A”

ORDINANCE BILL NO. 2012-0?

AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE CITY OF INDIAN WELLS TO IMPOSE. LEVY AND COLLECT A
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX FOR THE MAINTENANCE AND SERVICING OF LANDSCAPE AND LIGHTING
IMPROVEMENTS

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Landscape and Lighting Act of 1972 (California Streets and Highways Code section 22500 et seq.), the City of
Indian Wells ) (the “City”) formed seventeen separate landscape and lighting maintenance assessment districts (the “HMDs”) for the purpose of
funding the maintenance and servicing of landscape improvements (as more particularly defined herein) within the public rights-of-way throughout the
City; and

WHEREAS, in 1991, the LLMDs were subsequently consolidated into one landscape and lighting maintenance assessment district (the
“Landscape and Lighting District No. 91-1"), with eighteen zones established therein; and

WHEREAS, although the improvements being maintained and serviced in Landscape and Lighting District No. 91-1 are located throughout
the City, not all property owners within the City pay assessments for the maintenance and servicing of the improvements but enjoy and are benefited
by the improvements; and

WHEREAS, the current assessments are insufficient to recover the costs of maintaining and servicing the improvements and the City has an
interest in providing adequate funding for the maintenance and servicing of such improvements for the benefit of the entire community; and

WHEREAS, the City must find an immediate solution to provide adequate funding for the maintenance and servicing of the improvements; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to impose, levy, and coilecia special parcel tax to provide such funding, meet anticipated future demands; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Constitution articles XIII A, section 4, XIII C, section 2(d), and XIII D, section 3(a), and California
Government Code sections 50075, 50077,53722, and 53724 no local government may impose, extend, or increase any special tax unless and until
that tax is submitted to the electorate and approved by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the qualified electors voting in the election; and

WHEREAS, the City will be authorized to impose, levy, and collect the special parcel tax at the maximum rate of $171.00 per taxable property
within the City of Indian Wells commencing July 1,2013, and annually may be adjust the special parcel tax for inflation each Fiscal Year to recover
Increases in the costs of providing the maintenance and servicing of the improvements; and

WHEREAS, the automatic annual adjustments to such special parcel tax shall commence on July 1,2014. and may be imposed each July 1
thereafter; and

WHEREAS, because the special parcel tax revenues will be sufficient to fund the maintenance and servicing of the landscape
improvements, the City will suspend the imposition, levy and collection of the special benefit assessments on parcels located within Light and
Landscaping District 91-1 and the 18 zones therein for so long as the special parcel tax is imposed, levied, and collected by the City.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF INDIAN WELLS DO ORDAIN as follows:

SECTION JL Recitals. The Recitals set forth above are incorporated herein and by this reference made an operative part hereof.

to* SECTION 2. Definitions. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in this Section 2 shall for all purposes of this Ordinance
have the meanings herein specified,

"City' means the City of Indian Wells.

“Improvement' means one or any combination of the following:

(a)	The installation or planting of landscaping.

(b)	The installation or construction of statuary, fountains, and other ornamental structures and facilities.

(c)	The installation or construction of public lighting facilities, including, but not limited to, traffic signals.

(d)	The installation or construction of any facilities which are appurtenant to any of the foregoing or which are necessary or convenient for
the maintenance or servicing thereof, including, but not limited to, grading, clearing, removal of debris, the installation or construction of curbs, gutters,
walls, sidewalks, or paving, or water, irrigation, drainage, or electrical facilities.

(e)	The installation of park or recreational improvements, including, but not limited to, all of the following:

(1)	Land preparation, such as grading, leveling, cutting and filling, sod, landscaping, irrigation systems, sidewalks, and drainage.

(2)	Lights, playground equipment, play courts, and public restrooms.

_________(f)	The	maintenance or servicing, or both, of any of the foregoing, and of any improvement authorized by subdivision (i). ____

PW1CO nor

33-9018-MI 7

(g)	The acquisition of land for park, recreational, or open-space purposes,

(h)	The acquisition of any existing improvement otherwise authorized pursuant to this section,

(i)	The acquisition or construction of any community center, municipal auditorium or hall, or similar public facility for the indoor
presentation of performances, shows, stage productions, fairs, conventions, exhibitions, pageants, meetings, parties, or other group events, activities,
or functions, whether those events, activities, or functions are public or private.

Incidental expenses” mean and include all of the following;

(a)	Any other expenses incidental to the construction, Installation, or maintenance and servicing of the improvements.

(b)	Costs associated with administering the annual levy and collection of the Special Parcel Tax, and the costs of the election,
“Landscaping” of landscape” means trees, shrubs, grass, or other ornamental vegetation.

“Maintain” or “maintenance” means the furnishing of services and materials for the ordinary and usual maintenance, operation, and servicing of any
improvement, including:

(a)	Repair, removal, or replacement of all or any part of any improvement.

(b)	Providing for the life, growth, health, and beauty of landscaping, including cultivation, irrigation, trimming, sprayingDiertilizing,	or

treating for disease or injury.

(c)	The removal of trimmings, rubbish, debris, and other solid waste.

(d)	The cleaning, sandblasting, and painting of walls and other improvements to remove or cover graffiti.

“Public lighting facilities" means all works or improvements used or useful for the lighting of any public places, including ornamental standards,
luminaires, poles, supports, tunnels, manholes, vaults, conduits, pipes, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, braces, transformers, insulators,
contacts, switches, capacitors, meters, communication circuits, appliances, attachments, and appurtenances.

“Public places” means one or any combination of the following;

(a)	Any public street, highway, road, alley, lane, boulevard, parkway, or other way dedicated to or used for public use.

(b)	Any public property, right-of-way, or leasehold interest which Is in use In the performance of a public function and which adjoins any	of

the ways described in subdivision (a).

“Service" or “servicing” means the furnishing of;

(a)	Electric current or energy, gas, or other illuminating agent for any public lighting facilities or for the lighting or operation of any other

improvements.

(b)	Water for the irrigation of any landscaping, the operation of any fountains, or the maintenance of any other improvements.

“Special parcel tax” means that special parcel tax authorized to be imposed, levied, and collected pursuant to this Ordinance and approved by an
affirmative vote of two-thirds of the qualified electors voting In the election on November 6, 2012.

“Taxable property" means as any unit of real property in the City which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Treasurer-Tax
Collector of Riverside County.

SECTION 3. Special Parcel Tax. The City is hereby authorized to impose, levy, and collect a special parcel tax. The specific purposes of the
special parcel tax are to fund the costs of the annual maintenance and servicing of improvements located in public places throughout the City, and any
incidental expenses thereof. Except as otherwise provided in Section 8 of this Ordinance, the special parcel tax shall be imposed, levied, and collected
at the maximum rate of $171.00 per taxable property,

SECTION 4. Special Account. The proceeds of the special parcel tax shall be deposited in a special account, created and maintained by the
City, and used only for the specific purposes identified in Section 3 hereof,

SECTION 5. Accountability Measures. For so long as any proceeds of the special parcel tax remain unexpended, the City Manager shall
cause a report to be prepared by an independent auditor and to be filed with the City Council no later than December 31 of each year, commencing
December 31,2013, stating (1) the amount of special parcel tax revenues collected and expended in such year; and (2) the status of any projects or
description of any services or programs funded from proceeds of the special parcel tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, as the City Manager shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other
appropriate routine report to the City Council.

SECTION 6. Annual Report. The City shall annually adopt a written repo rt which shall contain a description of each lot or parcel of taxable
property subject to the imposition, levy, and collection of the special parcel tax, the amount of the special parcel tax for each lot or parcel of taxable
property for each fiscal year, and the basis and schedule for the special parcel tax authorized. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which
are levied no ad valorem property' taxes In any year shall also be exempt from the special parcel tax in such year. The Riverside County Assessor s
determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel from taxation shall be final and binding for the purposes of the special parcel tax.
Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor's determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a misciassification of property

RV169-026

33-9018-M18

pursuant to section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of the special
parcel tax shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SECTION 7, Application of Special Parcel Tax. The special parcel tax shall be assessed to the owner of each taxable property within the

City, unless the owner is by law exempt from taxation, in which case, the tax imposed shall be assessed to the holder of the possessory interest in such
parcel, unless such holder is also by law exempt from taxation.

SECTION 8. Imposition of Special Parcel Tax. The special parcel tax shall be imposed, levied, and collected each year, commencing July
1,2013, on all taxable property, improved or unimproved, within the boundaries of the City, at the maximum rate of one hundred seventy-one dollars
($171.00) per year per taxable property. Provided, however, such maximum rate may be adjusted annually for inflation. Each fiscal year, beginning
Fiscal Year 2013-14, the maximum allowable maximum special tax may be increased by the percentage change in the year ending January preceding
the start of the Fiscal Year of the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U), for the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County area. Annual
adjustments for inflation shall not exceed three percent (3%) for any single year. If for any reason the percentage change in the CPI-U is negative, the
maximum allowable assessment shall not be decreased by reason of such negative percentage change and will remain at the amount as computed on
the previous Fiscal Year regardless of any CPI-U adjustment. Provided further, however, if the City Council determines an adjustment for inflation is not
necessary in any given Fiscal Year, the City Council is not obligated to increase the special parcel tax in that Fiscal Year.

SECTION 9. Suspension of Special Benefit Assessments. Commencing July 1, 2013, the City shall suspend the imposition, levy, and
collection of the special benefit assessments within Landscape and Lighting District No. 91-1 and each zone therein for so long as the special parcel tax
authorized pursuant to this Ordinance is imposed, levied, and collected by the City.

SECTION 10. Severability. The special parcel tax shall not apply to any person, entity, or property as to whom or which it is beyond the
power of the City to impose the tax herein provided, if for any reason any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof is found to be invalid, or if

the Special Parcel Tax is found inapplicable to any particular parcel within the City by a Court of competent jurisdiction, the balance of this Ordinance
and the application of the Special Parcel Tax to the remaining parcels within the City shall not be affected and, to this end, the provisions of this
Ordinance are severable.

SECTION 11. Successors. To the fullest extent permitted by law, this Ordinance and its special parcel tax authorization and authority shall
be binding upon any successors in interest to the City or any successors in interest to the City's maintenance and servicing of the improvements.

SECTION 12. This Ordinance shall take effect only if approved by two-thirds of the eligible voters of the City of Indian Wells voting at a
General Municipal election to be held on November 6, 2012, and shall take effect immediately after the City Council has certified the results of the

General Municipal election by resolution.

SECTION 13. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance by the People voting thereon on November 6,2012.
by signing where indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the people of the City of Indian Wells on the 6!r
day of November, 2012.

Dated

MAYOR

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

RODERICK J. WOOD

INTERIM CITY MANAGER/CITY CLERK

STEPHEN P. DEITSCH
CITY ATTORNEY

RV169'

33-9018-M19

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “R”

The City of Indian Wells formed eighteen landscape and
lighting maintenance assessment districts (“HMDs) to fund the

maintenance of landscape and lighting improvements within the City's
public rights-of-way on Highway 111, Cook Street, and Eldorado Drive
(“Improvements”). In 1991, the HMDs were consolidated into one
district (the “HMD No. 91-1”), which has eighteen zones. Although the
Improvements maintained within HMD No. 91-1 are located throughout
the City, not all City property owners pay assessments for their
maintenance.

Measure “R” proposes the adoption of an ordinance
authorizing the City to impose a parcel tax on all taxable property within
the City for the specific purpose of funding the maintenance and
servicing of the Improvements located in LLMD No. 91-1. The parcel tax
would be imposed at a rate of $171 per taxable parcel commencing July
1, 2013. For each fiscal year beginning fiscal year 2014-15, the
maximum allowable parcel tax could be increased, as needed, by the
percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban
Consumers (“CPI-U”), for the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County
area for the year ending the preceding December 31, capped at 3%. If
for any reason the percentage change in the CPI-U is negative, the
maximum allowable tax could not be decreased and would remain at the
amount as computed for the previous fiscal year. If the City Council
determines that an adjustment for inflation is not necessary in any given
fiscal year, the City Council would not be obligated to increase the parcel
tax in that fiscal year.

If the parcel tax is approved by the voters, commencing July 1,
2013, the City will suspend the imposition, levy, and collection of the
special benefit assessments on residential parcels within LLMD No. 91-1
for so long as the parcel tax is imposed, levied, and collected by the City.
Because there are additional costs for maintaining certain improvements
that specially benefit non-residential parcels in Zones A8, A11 A, A11C,
and E of LLMD No. 91-1, the special benefit assessments for
non-residential parcels within these zones would not be suspended.

In order for the City to adopt the proposed parcel tax and
resulting suspension of assessments on residential lots in LLMD No.

91-1, Measure “R” must be approved by two-thirds of the voters voting in
the election on Measure “R".

A “yes” vote on Measure “R" authorizes the City to (1) impose
the parcel tax, commencing July 1,2013, at the rate of $171 per taxable
parcel per year; and (2) provide for annual inflationary adjustments of the
tax capped at 3%.

A “no” vote on Measure “R” prohibits the City from (i) imposing
the parcel tax commencing July 1,2013, at the rate of $171 per taxable

parcel per year; and (ii) providing for annual inflationary adjustments of
the tax capped at 3%,

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “R”

Indian Wells does not need a new parcel tax. City residents are urged to
vote “NO” on Measure “R” because it improperly benefits a limited
number of privately owned properties along Highway 111, Cook and
Eldorado by requiring all other parcels to pay the cost of beautification for
the few.

The City’s existing Landscape and Lighting Maintenance District 91-1
(LLMD) is made up of 18 zones that include many, but not all parcels on
the streets mentioned. At the time of purchase, all residents affected by
the LLMD should have been advised that a cost of their home ownership
included the cost of landscaping and maintaining their properties as
required by the LLMD.

Under Measure “R”, all parcels within the city will now share the cost of
landscaping and lighting for the LLMD affected properties. In some
zones within the LLMD, the costs will actually increase because the new
tax is greater than the current LLMD fee. Other parcels will pay less as
their costs will be shared by all parcel owners.

For those parcels affected by LLMD fees, the solution is to cist back on
annual expenses, just as we all do when budgeting expenses. A little less
color planted each year will not make the affected parcels or the City less
desirable. Under the new tax, city government will be more directly
involved in the landscape business, which almost guarantees increased
costs.

Measure “R” unfairly places a greater value on the selected parcels
which can now look to city taxes to beautify their properties. Under “R”,
we must pay not only for our own landscaping and maintenance, but for
the LLMD privately-owned properties as well.

We do not need to pay a tax for the beautification of properties within the

city. Vote “No” on "R”.

By:	Michael	J.	Andelson

SI Office of the City Attorney. City of Indian Wells
Stephen P. Deitsch, City Attorney

NO ARGUMENT FILED IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “R”

RV169-028

33-9018-M20