>th Sides

L BALLOT

Precinct 0033901

m. REPEAT FELONY
ttES.

fe sentence only when
serious or violent May
if third strike conviction
it, Fiscal Impact:

I savings of around
even greater savings
ihe next couple of
fe could vary
am future state actions.

MNEERED FOODS.

k sold to consumers
mats with genetiG
Iclfied ways, Prohibits
lather processed food,
|emptions. Fiscal
k state costs from a
Mars to over $1 million
If genetically
ilorral, butllketynot
| costs to address
[sure.

pATiON AND EARLY

MS.

i

jigs using Sliding
Revenues go to K-12
jod programs, and for
jtedebt Fiscal
lax revenues for 12
annually in initial
jar time. Funds used

id oroneh/v-ii an w«n

40-RED1STR1CTING. STATE SENATE
DISTRICTS.

REFERENDUM.

A "Yes" vote approves, and a “No1' vote rejects,
new State Senate districts drawn by the
Citizens Recfistrfotlng Commission, if rejected,
districts will bs adjusted by officials supervised
by the California Supreme Court, Fiscal
Impact: Approving the referendum would have
np fiscal impact or? foe state and local
governments. Rejecting the referendum would
result in a one-time cost of about $1 million to
the state and counties.

Yss

No

CITY

DD*Cfty of Los Afamttos
Decrease the Rate and Modernize the
Telephone Users Tax to Preserve and Fund
Important City Services

Shall an ordinance be adopted to reduce the '
rale of the City's taxon telecommunications
users from 8% to 5%, modernize the language
to treat taxpayers equally, regardless of
technology used, and continue to use the
proceeds to fund general municipal services,
such as safety, parks and recreation, and street
maintenance?

CZI Yes

cm no

Sample Ballot

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE DD
CITY OF LOS ALAMiTOS

ORDINANCE NO. 2012-04

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LOS AL AMJTOS, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING AND
REPLACING PORTIONS OF CHAPTER 3.20 OF THE LOS ALAMITOS MUNICIPAL
CODE TO DECREASE THE RATE AND MODERNIZE THE TELEPHONE USERS TAX
TO PRESERVE AND FUND IMPORTANT CITY SERVICES.

WHEREAS, the City of Los Afamitos has collected a Telephone Users Tax (TUT) since 1931 and the current rate o< the TUT is 6%;

WHEREAS, the City desires to reduce the tax rate on telecommunications services from 6% to 5%;

WHEREAS, the City desires totreat users of communications services in a uniform and equitable manner, regardless of the means of transmission
or technology used, so that users of communications services transmitted by traditional technologies (such as land lines) do not bear a greater tax burden
than users of communications services transmitted via newly developed technologies;	J

WHEREAS, telephony and related communications services have changed dramatically since the inception of the TUT and communications j
technology, telephone calling and marketing plans, and the state and federal legislation that regulates them, continue to evolve at a rapid pace;

WHEREAS, In particular, communications are no longer accomplished entirely through the switched network, wireless service has become j
prevalent, communications through other means are increasing in popularity, the overall cost of communications is declining, common charges are no j
longer based upon distance and the federal government has bsen extremely active in adopting laws affecting the telecommunications industry;	j

WHEREAS, any moderni2ation and clarification of the TUT to include current technologies and reflect the realities of the current communications
industry requires voter approval under the California Constitution;

WHEREAS, the revenue generated by the TUT is likely to be lost over time due to market erosion, changing technology and other factors;

WHEREAS, the City needs the revenue generated by the TUT to continue to provide essential City services such as safety services, street
maintenance and park and recreation services.

NOW, THEREFORE,

The People of the City of Los Alamitos do ordain, as follows:

Section 1. The following sections of Chapter 3.20 of the Los Alamitos Municipal Code are hereby added, amended and replaced to read as follows:

3.20.040 Definitions.

j	Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this Section govern the construction of this Chapter.

j	1. “Ancillary Telecommunications Services" means services that are associated with or incidental 1o the provision, use or enjoyment of

j Telecommunications Services, including but not limited to the following services:

(1)	services that link two or more participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision of a telephone number.

(2)	services that separately state information pertaining to individual calls on a customer's billing statement.

(3)	services that provide telephone number information and/or address information.

(4)	services offered in connection with one or more telecommunications services that offer advanced calling features that allow
customers to identify caflers and to manage multiple calls and call connections.

(5)	services that enable the customer to store, send or receive recorded messages.

2.	“Billing Address" means the mailing address of the Service User where the Service Supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the
customer.

3.	“City” means the city of Los Alamitos.

4.	“Gas” means natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel which may be substituted therefor.

5.	“Month'’ means a calendar month.

6.	“Person” means without (imitation, any domestic, non-profit or foreign corporation, firm, association, syndicate, joint-stock company,
partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, trust, limited liability company, business or common-law trust, society, any natural individual, cooperative,
receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court, or any municipal corporation {other than the City),

7.	“Private Communications Services” means any dedicated virtual or actual Telecommunications Services that entitle the user to the exclusive
or priority use of communications channels.

8.	“Service Supplier" means any Person or entity required to collect or self-impose and remit a tax as imposed by this chapter

9.	“Service User" means a Person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter.

10.	‘Tax Administrator” means the city manager or his/her designee.

11.	'Telecommunications Services" means the transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or
signals to a point, or between or among points, whatever the technology used, whether such transmission, conveyance or routing occurs by wire, cable,
fiber-optic, light wave, laser, microwave, radio wave (including, but not limited to, cellular service, commercial mobile service, personal communications
service (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR) and other types of personal wireless service, regardless of radio spectrum used, switching facilities, satellite
or any other technology now existing or developed after the adoption of this section, and includes, without limitation, liber optic, coaxial cable and wifeless.

The term “Telecommunications Services" includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on
the form, code or protocol of the content tor purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether such servicesare referred to as voice
over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or
data services that is functionally integrated with Telecommunications Services. Telecommunications Services indude, but are not limited to the following
services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are caicuiated or bided: central office and custom calling features (including but not
limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caifer identification and three-way calling), local number portability, text messaging, Ancillary Telecommunication
Services; prepaid and post-paid services (including but not limited to prepaid calling cards); mobile telecommunications service; Private Communication
Service; paging service; and 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission). Telecommunication
Service does not include charges for internet access services the taxation of which is prohibited by Federal Law, video programming services or digital
downloads, such as downloads of books, music, ringtones, games and similar digital products.

12.	“Telephone Corporation,1’ “Electrical Corporation,3 "Gas Corporation,” and “Water Corporalion,”shall have the same meanings as defined in
Sections 234,218,222.241, respectively, oftha California Public Utilities Code except, “Electrical Corporation,” "Gas Corporation” and “Water Corporation"
shall also be construed to include any municipality or public agency engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power or Gas or water to a Service User.
“Electrical Corporation” shall include any organization or municipality or agency engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power to a Service User.

3.20.050 Constitutional exemptions; effect of state and federal authorization.

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
\ California statute, the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of California. To the extent that the City's authorization to impose or
collect the tax imposed in this Chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in stale or federal law, no amendment or modification of this Chapter
shall be required .to conform the tax to those changes, and the fax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the City’s authorization up to the full
amount of the tax imposed by this Chapter.

3.20.070 Telecommunication Users Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every Person with a Billing Address or service address in (he City who uses Telecommunication Services,
including intrastate, interstate (including calls to the District of Columbia), and international Telecommunications Services, to the extent permitted by state
and federal law. The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) on the charges made lor Telecommunication Services and shall be
collected from the Service User by the Service Supplier or its billing agent. To the sxient allowed by law, ihe tax on Telecommunication Services shall apply
to a Service User if the Billing Address or service address of the Service User is within the City’s boundaries.

B.	Except as otherwise provided herein, Telecommunication Services shall include all Telecommunication Service for which there is a charge*
regardless of the means or technology used to provide such services. The tax imposed under Subsection A, above shall not be imposed upon any Person
for using the following Communications Services:

(1)	Except with respect to local telephone service, services used in Ihe collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker service
furnishing a generai news service similar to that of the public press or radio broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news through the public press, or
a news ticker service furnishing a general news service similar to that of thepublic press or by means of radio broadcasting, if the charge for such
service is billed in writing to such Person.

(2)	Services furnished to a public international organization in which the United States participates pursuant to treaty or Act of Congress,
or to the American National Red Cross.

(3)	Any toll telephone service which originates within a combat zone and is from a member of the Armed Forces of the United States
performing service in such combat zone; provided a certificate, setting forth such facts as the Secretary of the United States Treasury may by
regulations prescribe, is furnished to the Person receiving such payment.

(4)	No tax shall be imposed under this Section on the amount paid for any Telecommunication Services to the extent that the amount so
paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company, or radio broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its business.

(5)	The instalfation of any instrument, wire, pole, switchboard, apparatus or equipment as is properly attributable to such installation.

(6)	Amounts paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to such organization. For purposes of this exemption, the term “nonprofit
hospital" means a hospital referred to in Section 170(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Internal Revenue Code, which is exempt from federal income tax under
Section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.

(7)	Services or facilities furnished to the government of any state, or any political subdivision thereof.

(8)	Services or facilities paid for by a nonprofit educational organization and furnished to such organization. For purposes of this
subsection, the term “nonprofit educational organization" means an educational organization that is exempt from income tax under Section 501 (a) .
of the internal Revenue Code. The term aiso includes a school operated as an activity of an organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code, which is exempt from income tax under Section 501(a) of the same code, if such school normally maintains a regular
faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where its educational activities
are regularly carried on.

C.	As used in this Section, the term "charges” shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the Service User in exchange for the Telecommunication Services.

D.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of Telecommunication Services subject to tax under this Section, any Service User, upon proof to
the Tax Administrator that the Service User owed and has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such Telecommunication Services, shall
be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state or city; provided, however, Ihe amount
of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this Section.

E.	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this Chapter, “substantial nexus" and "minimum contacts”
shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as it
may change from time to lime by judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any Telecommunication Services used by a Person with a service
address in the City, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts" exists for purposes of imposing a fax, or
establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this Chapter. For Telecommunication Services for which there is no Billing Address or primary physical
location for the provision of services, Ihe service address shall mean the point of sate of the services.

3.20.110 Penalty and interest.

A.	Taxes collected from a Service User or owed by a Service User which are not remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the due dates
provided in this Chapter are delinquent and are subject to penallies and interest. If the Person required to collect and/or remit a tax imposed under this
Chapter fails to collect and remit the tax, such taxes are delinquent.

B.	Any Person who fails to remit faxes collected in the time required by this, chapter shall pay a penalty of five percent of the amount of the tax, and
„ if not remitted within two working days after the date of delinquency, shall pay a total penalty of twenty (20) percent of the amount of lax owed. Such penalty

shall attach to the amount of tax due and shall be paid by the person required to collect and remit the tax.

C.	When fraud or gross negligence in reporting and remitting tax collections is discovered, the tax administrator shall have power to impose
additional penalties of twenty (20) percent of taxes owed upon persons required to collect and remit taxes under the provisions of this chapter.

D.	Any Person required to remit to the tax administrator delinquent taxes as required in this section, shall pay interest at (he rate of one and
one-half percent per month, or portion thereof, on the amount of tax owed exclusive of penallies. from the date on which the tax first became delinquent until
paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (B) and (D) of this section, no penalty or interest shall be applied if delinquencies are the result of
natural disasters or other phenomena beyond the control of the person charged with collecting and remitting the tax, provided the person being delinquent

<---------------------------------------------  *............................................        W.*,-",.............   *------—-- ----------

notifies the tax administrator as soon as normal communications permit.

F.	Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this Chapter shall become a part of the tax required to be remitted.

3.20.120 Actions to collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a Service User under the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the Service User to the City. Any
such tax collected from a Service User which has not been remitted to the T ax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the Person required
to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the Service User. In Ihe event that a Service Supplier required to collect and remit a lax under the
provisions of this Chapter fails to do so in whole or in part, the amount of such unremitted tax shall be deemed a debt owed by the Service Supplier to the
City. Any Person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of
such amount, plus any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the Person's noncompliance with this Chapter, including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorney's tees.

3.20.130 Duty to collect—Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this Chapter shall be performed as follows:

A.	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along with the charges made in accordance with tire regular billing
practices qf the Service Supplier. Where the amount paid by a Service User to a Service Supplier is less than the full amount of the utility charge and tax
which has accrued for the billing period, such amount and any subsequent payments by a Service User shaft be applied to the utility charge first until such
charge has been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be applied to taxes due.

B.	The duty to collect tax from a Service User shall commence with the beginning of the first full regular billing period applicable to the Service
User where all charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where a Person receives more than one billing,
one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing.

C.	The taxes imposed by this Chapter shad be collected from the Service User by the Service Supplier. The amount of tax collected in one (1)
Month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following Month.
Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return may be made on the first regular working day following a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday. If a Service Supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the Service Supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax

I Adminislrator the name, address and telephone number of each biding agent and billing aggregator current!/ authorized by the Service Supplier to bid,
j collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the
| possession of such biding agent or bifling aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

D.	Each Person required by this Chaplerto remit a tax shall file a return with the Tax Adminislrator on forms approved by the Tax Administrator on
or before the due date. The full amount of the tax owed shall be included with the return and filed wilh the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is
authorized to require such further information as he or she deems necessary to properly determine if the tax here imposed is being levied and collected in
accordance with this Chapter. Returns and remiltances are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to California Revenue i
and Taxation Code § 7284,6, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as confidential information, and not subject to the Public j
Records Act.

E.	The Tax Administrator may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to Service Suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements
of this Section, administrative rulings identifying those services, that are subject to the taxes imposed by this Chapter or otherwise interpreting the provisions
of this Chapter. To the extent that the Tax Administrator determines that any tax imposed under this Chapter shall not be collected in full for any period of
time, such a determination falls within the Tax Administrator's discretion to settle disputes. The Tax Administrator’s exercise of prosecutorial forbearance
under this Section does noi constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750, and the City does not waive or
abrogate its ability to impose the taxes under this Chapter in full as a result of issuing such administrative rulings.

3.20.150 Assessment—Administrative remedy.

A.	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not remitted by a Person required to remit.

B.	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a Service User has deliberately withheld the amount of Ihe tax owed by him from the amounts
remitted to a Service Supplier, or that a Service User has failed to pay the amount of the tax fora period of two (2) or more billing periods, or whenever the
Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she may relieve the Service Supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due under this Chapter
from certain named Service Users for specified billing periods. The Service Supplier shall provide the City with the names and addresses of such Service
Users and the amounts of taxes owed or refused by the Service Users under the provisions of this Chapter.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the Service User that he or she has assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and
demand payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the Service User by handing it to him or her personally or by deposit of Ihe notice in the United
States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the Service User at the address to which billing was made by the Service Supplier; or should the Service
User have changed his or her address, to his or her last known address. If a Service User fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15)
days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, which shall be the date of mailing if service is not accomplished in person, a penalty of
twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, along with interest at the rate of three-quarters of one percent
{%%) per Month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until
paid, but not less than Five Dollars ($5.00). The penalty shad become part of the tax herein required to be paid.

3.20.160 Records.

A.	It shall be the duty of every Person required to collect and/or remit to ths City any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, fora period
of at least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of and
remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's designated representative, shall have Ihe right to
inspect at all reasonable times.

B.	If any Person subject to record-keeping under this Section unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator’s designated
representative, access to such records, the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's designated representative, may impose a penalty of five hundred
dollars ($500) on such Person for each day following the initial date that the Person refuses to provide such access. This penalty shall be in addition-to any
other penalty imposed under this Chapter,

3.20.170 Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this Chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this Section.

B.	The Tax Administrator may refund to the taxpayer any tax that has been overpad, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter, provided that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless the
taxpayer or his or her guardian, conservator, executor or administrator has submitted a written claim signed by the claimant to the Tax Administrator within
one year of the overpayment or erroneous or iffegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by written records [
showing entitlement thereto. No claim may be filed on behaif of a class or group of taxpayers unless such claim is signed by each taxpayer included in the j

1

class or group,

C.	The Tax Administrator may refund to a Service Supplier any tax that has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter, provided that the Service Supplier has submitted a written claim signed by the
Service Supplier to the Tax Administrator within one year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish
that the tax sought to be refunded was collected from (he Service User, that the Service User from whom the fax was collected did not owe the tax and that

I the amount of the tax sought to be refunded was refunded in kill to the Service User prior to the Service Supplier submitting the claim,

D.	The submission of a written claim, which is acted upon by the City Council, shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. The City Council shall act
| upon the refund claim within the time period set forth in Government Code Section 912.4. If the City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the
I time prescribed by Government. Code Section 912.4, the claim shall be deemed to be rejected by the City Council on the last day of the period within which

the City Council was required to act upon the claim as provided in Government Code Section 912.4. It is the intent of the City Council that the one year
written claim requirement of this section be given retroactive effect; provided, however, that any claims which arose prior to the commencement of the one
year claims period of this Section, and which are not otherwise barred by a then-applicable statute of limitations or claims procedure, must be filed with the
Tax Administrator as provided in this subsection within ninety (90) days following the effective date of this Section.

E.	Notwithstanding other provisions of this Section, whenever a Service Supplier, pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities
Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, makes a refund to Service Users of charges for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to this Chapter
on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded to Service Users, and the Service Supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for such
refunded taxes against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly return.

3.20.200 Bundling taxable and non-taxabie charges.

If a non-faxable service and a taxable service are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the
Service Supplier or taxpayer reasonabfy identifies actual charges not subject to the utility users tax based upon books and records that are kept in the
regular course of business, in a manner consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. The Service Supplier or Taxpayer has the burden of
proving the proper apportionment of taxable and nontaxable charges.

3.20.210 Exemptions.

A. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon:

(1) Any Person or service if imposition of such tax upon that Person or service would be in violation of a federal or California statute, the
Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of California;

j	(2)	The City;

!	(3)	Any person who is exempt under section 3.20.050 of this Chapter;

|	B.	The exemptions granted by this Section shall not eliminate the duty of the Service Supplier from collecting taxes from such exempt individuals,

i or the duty of such exempt individuals from paying such taxes to the Service Supplier; unless an exemption is applied for by the Service User and granted in
I accordance with the provisions of this Section.

i	C. Any Service User exempt from the taxes imposed by this Chapter because of the provisions of subsection A, above, may file an application

I with the Tax Administrator for an exemption. Such application shall be made upon a form supplied by the Tax Administrator; and shall state those facts,
j declared under oath, which qualify the applicant for an exemption.

|	D. The Tax Administrator shall review all such applications, and shatl certify as exempt those applicants determined to qualify therefor; and shall

i notify all Service Suppliers affected that such exemptions have been approved. For each exemption, the following information shall be transmitted to the
I Service Supplier:

(1)	Name of exempt applicant;	i

i

(2)	Account number shown on utility bill;

(3)	Address to which exempt service is being supplied; and

(4)	Any other information as may be necessary for the Service Supplier to remove the exempt Service User from its tax billing procedure.

E.	Upon receipt of such notice, the Service Supplier shall not be required to continue to bill any further tax imposed by this Chapter from such
exempt Service User, until further notice by the Tax Administrator is given. The Service Supplier shall eliminate such exempt Service User from its tax billing

j procedure no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of such notice from the Tax Administrator.

F.	All exemptions shall continue and be renewed automatically by the Tax Administrator, so long as the prerequisite facts supporting the initial
j qualification for exemption shall continue; provided, however, that the exemption shall automatically terminate with any change in the service address or
j residence of the exempt individual; further provided such individual may nevertheless apply fora new exemption with each change of address or residence.

!	G. The Tax Administrator shall have the power and right to demand evidence of continued eligibility of a Service User for exemption under the

[ provisions of this Section. Such evidence may include, but need not be limited to, copies of business records, letters or statements from the Social Security
! Administration, copies of income tax returns, and such other evidence concerning the Service User orother members of his or her household as may tend to
prove or disprove such eligibility. Failure to provide such evidence as is within the control of a Service User to so provide, either directly by him or by his
consent or.the consent of a member of his or her household when such evidence is requested of the Service User in writing by the Tax Administrator, shall be
grounds for the immediate discontinuance of the Service User's eligibility for exemption under the provisions of this Section, Evidence provided to the Tax
Administrator upon request, or voluntarily provided by the Service User without request, may not be used against such Service User as evidence of violation
of the provisions of this Section; such evidence may only be used as grounds for termination of the exemption herein provided..

H. Any individual exempt from the tax shall notify the Tax Administrator within ten (10) days of any change in fact or circumstance which might
disqualify said individual from receiving such exemption, it shatl be a misdemeanor for any Person to knowingly receive the benefits of the exemptions
provided by this Section, when the basis for such exemption either does not exist or ceases to exist.

i. Notwithstanding any of the provisions hereof, any Service Supplier who determines by any means that a new or nonexempt Service User is
receiving service through a meter or connection exempt by virtue of an exemption issued to a previous user or exempt user of the same meter or connection,
such Service Supplier shall immediately notify the Tax Administrator of such fact; and the Tax Administrator shall conduct an investigation to ascertain
whether or not the provisions of this Section have been complied with, and where appropriate, order fhe Service Supplier to commence collecting the tax
from the nonexempt Service User.

J. If the Tax Administrator determines that an application for exemption is faulty, or that the applicant has failed to truthfully sel forth such facts,
the application for the exemption shad be denied in writing to the applicant. The applicant shad thereafter have a right to file an amended application for
exemption; or to appeal the Tax Administrator's decision to the City Manager within a 10-day period after the mailing date of the Tax Administrator's
rejection. In the case of an appeal, the City Manager shall review the tacts in consultation with the City Attorney, and shall render a final determination on
such appeal.

K, Upon request of the Tax Administrator, a Service Supplier, or its billing agent, shall provide a list of the names and addresses of those
customers which, according to its billing records, are deemed exempt from any tax imposed under this Chapter.

3.20,220 No injunction or writ of mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or
against any officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and/or remitted.

3,20.230 Annua! Review and Report.

The City shall prepare an annual report regarding the Utility Users Tax setting forth thB amount of tax collected under this Chapter during the
preceding fiscal year, a comparison of the amount of tax collected as compared to prior years and any recommendations concerning the audit or
expenditure of the funds collected and/or remitted in accordance with this Chapter. Such annual report shall be presented to the City. Council and shall be a
public document and made available to the public.

3.20.240 Amendment or repeal.

Taxes imposed by this Chapter may be decreased, repealed or amended by the City Council, but may not be increased without a vote of the people
as required in California Constitution Article XHIC and California Government Code Section 53750(h).

j	Section	2. Majority Approval. This Ordinance shall be effective only If approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon (50% +1) and shall go

into effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council.	>

Section 3. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force
1 and effect. The people of the City of Los Aiamitos hereby declare that they would have adopted each section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
J Ordinance, irrespective of.the fact that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Chapter be declared invalid or
unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this Ordinance are severable.

Section 4. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance fay signing where indicated below.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF LOS ALAMIT0S
MEASURE DO

Measure DD is submitted to the voters by the Los Aiamitos City Council to: (i) reduce the rate of the City’s Telephone Users Tax ("TUT’} to 5%; and
(ii) update the TUT so that it can be applied equally both to older telephone technology and to newer telecommunications technology.

Background.

Residents of Los Aiamitos have paid the TUT on charges for telephone services since 1991. The current rate of the TUT is 6%. TUT revenues are
paid into the City's general fund, which is allocated by the City Council through the annual budget for general city services and purposes.

In past years, the City of Los Aiamitos, and most California cities with TUTs* relied on federal law definitions of what specific telephone services to
tax, by making references to the federal law in the ioca! laws. However, the federal government changed its interpretation of these definitions over time.
Also, telephone technology has changed greatly since the adoption of the TUT. Telephone companies have introduced cell phone service, voice over j
j internet protocol, fixed rate billing plans and many other new services and features. It is expected that telephone companies will continue to develop new
forms of telecommunications technology in the future.

The Measure.

Measure DD lowers the tax rate for the TUT from the current amount of 6% to 5% and applies the tax to all telephone services regardless of j
technology. The City Council may not increase the TUT in Ihe future without voter approval.	I

Measure DD would ratify an ordinance previously adopted by the City Council to remove references to the federal law definitions in its TUT.

Measure DD would replace older definitions with modernized language to address new technologies and to treat allphone customers the same lor
local tax purposes, whether they use traditional Jandline phones, cell phones, VOIP or some new form of telecommunication service invented in the future.

Existing prohibitions on taxing internet access under Federal law would not be affected by Measure DD.

Measure DD also requires that the City report annually on the amount of tax collected by phone carriers, paid to the City and spent by the City
according to the requirements of Measure DD and older laws. These reports will be available to the public.

Measure DD requires approval of a majority of voters.

Effect.

A “yes" vote for Measure DD will approve the clarifications described above and reduce the tax rate to 5%; a “no” vote against Measure DD will leave
in place the City’s existing Telephone Users Tax Ordinance at (he existing 6% rate.

! sf Sandra J. Levin
I Los Aiamitos City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE DD

Measure DD will reduce Los Aiamitos’ current telephone users tax (TUT)
rate by 1%, cutting the tax rate for customers, and modernizing the law to
ensure uniform applicability for all communications technologies,

The TUT was first adopted in 1991 and telephone technology and service
plans have dramatically changed since then.

Recent Federal regulatory decisions and court cases have created the risk
{ that the TUT laws of mos! cities, relating to telecommunications, could be
challenged. This would endangers portion of $650,000 of the city's budget.
Like many other cities, Los Aiamitos is updating its telephone users tax
statute and providing residents with a tax cut as well.

We're on the right track as.we continue to improve our quality of life in Los
Aiamitos, but not if we let a change in technology and law eliminate TUT tax.

The City Council has responsibly managed the City’s funds including TUT
revenues. The City Council stabilized and consolidated our city
management, cut Council pay, reduced spending by 13%, and balanced
f our budget without dipping into our reserves. We have seen a 5 year
\ decrease in crime across the city of Los Aiamitos.

[ A NO vote on Measure DD would keep rates where they are and leave
some customers not paying their fair share on new communications
technology, and would leave the present outdated law vulnerable to
challenge.

A YES vote on Measure DD would ensure that we can continue to provide
quality services vital to Los Aiamitos including police, firefighters, street
repaving, and quality of life programs supporting parks, senior and youth
recreation programs.

I Help us cut the TUT rate by 1% and keep Los Aiamitos strong, safe and
I secure and provide the quality services our city expects. Please vote YES
on Measure DD.

| Measure DD was supported by a unanimous vote of the council members
present.

s/ Troy Edgar
Mayor

s/ Marilynn Poe
Mayor ProTem

s/ Kenneth G. Stephens
Council Member

| $/ Warren Kusumoto
I Council Member

No.argument against this measure was submitted.

TO

m

0

a

E

0

co

CITY

Y-City olF Garden Grbve

Hotel Visitors Ta* Modiftcatiari’s to Help

Preserve City Services

Shall an Ordinaries amending die Garden
Grpve Municipal Code to increase the Hotel
Visitors Tax from 13% to 14.5% and to clarify
the scope and manner in which the Hotel
Visitors Tax applleis jbe adopted to help
preserve general City services such as police
arid fire protection, street operations arid
maintenance, and paries arid recreation
services?

Yes

No

y

\

III 111111111 111! Ill III II	3663031177	Sample

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Y
CITY OF GARDEN GROVE

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF GARDEN GROVE
AMENDING CHAPTER 3.12 OF TITLE 3 OF THE GARDEN GROVE
MUNICIPAL CODE PERTAINING TO THE HOTEL VISITORS TAX

The people of the City of Garden Grove hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1. Code Amendment. Section 3.12.020 entitled ’Definitions" of Chapter 3.12 entitled "Hotel Visitors Tax" of Title 3 of the Garden Grove
Municipal Code is hereby amended to add or amend the following definitions to read in their entirety as follows:

‘"'Block Reservation” means an arrangement whereby a person reserves, whether on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, a room or block/group of
rooms for a defined period of lime under a written or oral agreement with an operator, intending for such room(s) to be occupied by that person’s
employees or agents on an intermittent, periodic or “as needed” basis during that defined period of time. A Block Reservation arrangement shall not
constitute a Qualifying Rental Agreement."

“ "Hotel" means any structure, or any portion of any structure, that is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling,
lodging, or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, iodginghouse, rooming house,
hostel, bed and breakfast, apartment house, dormitory, time-share project, public or private club, mobile home, or house trailer at a fixed location, or
other similar structure or portion thereof.”

“ "Operator" means the person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
time-share project owner’s association, licensee, or any other capacity. Where the Operator performs his functions through a managing agent of
any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an Operator for the purposes of this Chapter and shall
have the same duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter by either the principal or the managing agent
shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.”

* "Recreational vehicle space0 means any space set aside in a recreational vehicle park that is intended, or designed for toe occupancy of a
recreational vehicle, including, but not limited to, a camper, van, trailer, motor home, or similar vehicle, that is used for dwelling, lodging orsleeping
purposes by transients,”

“ "Rent" means the total consideration charged, whether or not received, for toe occupancy of space in a hotel or of a recreational vehicle space,
valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor, or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property and services of any
kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever. Rent shall include the total consideration charged by the Operator for
accommodations, including, but not limited to, any separate charges levied for non-optional items or services that are incidental to occupancy,
including, but not limited to, furniture, fixtures, appliances, linens, towels, non-coin-operated safes, utilities (such as energy surcharges), maid
service, internet connection charges, and parking fees."

“ Transient" means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license, or
other agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person so
occupying or entitled to occupy space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty (30) consecutive and uninterrupted days of
occupancy has expired, unless there is a Qualifying Rental Agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a longer
period of occupancy. Any break or interruption in occupancy shall start a new thirty (30) day period subject to the tax. in determining whether a
person is a transient, uninterrupted period^ of time extending both prior and subsequent to the effective date of the Ordinance codified herein may
be considered.

In the case of a block reservation, a person’s employee or agent shall be deemed a transient if that employee or agent exercises or is entitled to
occupancy of a room for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, regardless of the duration of any block reservation agreement. 8y
way of example, if a corporation enters into a one-year block reservation agreement with an operator and one of the corporation's employees
occupies a room for thirty (30) calendar days, the employee shall be deemed a transient whose occupancy is subject to the tax, notwithstanding the
fact that the block reservation agreement has a duration longer than thirty (30) calendar days.” ”

“ “Time-Share Project” means a structure or real property (including airspace) in which either a time-share estate or a time-share use (as those
terms are defined in Section 11212 of the Business and Professions Code) and any similar form of ownership involving a right in perpetuity, for life,
or for a term of years, to occupy any room, place or area has been sold.” ”

Section 2. Code Amendment. Section 3.12.030 entitled "Tax Imposed" of Chapter 3.12 entitled "Hotel Visitors Tax" of Title 3 of the Garden Grove
Municipal Code is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:

"A, For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel or other transient lodgings as defined in this Chapter, each transient is subject to and shall pay a
tax in the amount of fourteen and one-half percent (14.5%) of toe rent charged by the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed by toe
transient and/or owner to the City that is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to toe City. The tax shall be paid to the operatorof
the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The
unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing occupancy. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the Tax
Administrator may require that such tax be paid directly to the City.

B.	Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, all provisions relating to hotels shall be applicable to recreational vehicle spaces, and all
references to “hotel” or “a room”, "rooms”, or “space” in.a hotel shall be deemed to include recreational vehicle spaces.”

Section 3. Code Amendment. Subsections B, C, D, E, and F are hereby added to Section 3.12.050 entitled "Operator’s Duties" of Chapter 3.12 entitled
"Hotel Visitors Tax' of Title 3 of the Garden Grove Municipal Code to read in their entirety as follows:

“B, Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection A, the operator shall not be required to separately state the amount of rent and toe amount of
the tax on receipts and books of record when room accommodations constitute a portion of a collective group of services, privileges,
entitlement or benefits (“Benefits”) that include, at a minimum, room accommodations and food and beverage services, or room
accommodations and at least one other benefit having an ascertainable fair market value (“Special Packages”) offered for one fixed price
(“Special Package Rate") provided the operator complies with Subsection C.

C.	The operator shall file with the Tax Administrator a statement of each Special Package on a form Special Package Application, provided by
the Tax Administrator. The Special Package Application shall detail toe Benefits of the Special Package and an itemization of each portion of
the Special Package that is rent and tax. TheTaxAdministratorshall mark the date of receipt on the Special Package Application and review
the submitted information to determine if sufficient information Is provided to verify that the value of the Benefits, rent, and tax. The Operator
shall designate a specific name or number to the Special Package Application as part of the Special Package Application. The Special
Package Application shall notbe accepted unless accompanied by a fee for processing that has been established by City Council Resolution,

1.	■ The name or number designated on the Special Package Application shall appear on all receipts and books of record whenever the

Special Package is sold.

2.	if the Special Package Application is deerne'd lncompletejhe Tax Administrator wiii.apvise'the .opeFator of any required changes within
fourteen (14) business days. The operator must either make the required changes' ahdresubfnft the Special Package Application or
comply with Subsection A.

3.	The Tax Administrator shall approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the Special Package within fourteen (14) days of receipt of a
complete Special Package Application. In the event of disapproval, the Tax Administrator shall give the operator written notice of the
reasons for disapproval. The effective date of the Special Package Rate shall be the date on which the fax Administrator receives a
complete Special Package Application that is approved. A new Special Package Application shall be submitted whenever the
operator changes the rent or Benefits of any- previously approved Special Package.

D.	The tax shall apply only to the amount of rent. Identified in the Special Package that has been approved by the Tax Administrator.

E.	If the operator falls to either separately state the amount of the tax- and the rent in accordance with Subsection A or to.obtain approval of a
Special Package Rate pursuant to Subsection C, the rent to Which the tax Is deemed to apply (tfie-"lmputed Rate’’) shall be theiesser of (1) the
amount collected for the total Special Package, of (2) an amount equal to the median average double occupancy room rate for the
accommodations as posted in the room pursuant to the requirements of Section 1363 of the Civil Code of-aby successor statute.

F.	Notwithstanding Subsections C and D, above, if any audit reveals that the gross ihcome .to the operator attributable to the rent portion of a
Special Package, (the “Audited Rate") is more than ten percent (10%) greater than the rent speciffed ihthe Special Package, then the rent for
purposes of calculating. the tax shall be the Audited Rate, In the event Subsection 3,12.050(E) applips; and the Audited Rate is greater than
the Imputed Rate, the rent for tax purposes shall be the Audited Rate. The Audited Rate shall be determined by an audit of a sample of the
Special Packages.soid by the operator within each Special'Package category, The Audited Rate shall be the amount of the Special Package
Rate remaining after deducting the fair market vafue of each Of the Benefits included in the Special Package Rate other than room
accommodationsand tax. Where more than one: type Of Special Package is offered within the audibpefiod, ea'ch Special Package shall be
audited separately for purposes of determining the appficabie.Audited Rat e, credits, or offsets shall not be allowed between different Special
Packages.”

Section 4, Repeal. Alteration. Modification. Notwithstanding Section 9217 of the California Elections Code,- without a vote of the People, the City
Council may amend any of the provisions adopted pursuant to this Ordinance in a manner that does not impose, extend, or increase the rate oMhe Hotel
Visitors l ax.

Section 5. Severability. If.any section, subsection, subdivision, sentence,.clause, phrase, word, orpoition.of this Ordinance Is, for any reason, held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by the. decision of any court, of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance. The People of the City of Garden Grove hereby declare that they would have adopted this Ordinance and. each soction, subsection, subdivision,
sentence, clause, phrase, word, or portion thereof, irrespective of the faot that any one or more sections, subsections; subdivisions, sentences, clauses,
phrases, words or portions thereof be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 6.	Effect of Ordinance, ff adopted, this Ordinance will increase the rate of the City's existing Hofei Visitors fax, which is a general tax of the City,

by one and on.e-haif percent (:1,5%), This Ordinance was proposed by the City Council of the City of Garden Grove through approval and introduction of the
Ordinance and the adoption of Resolution No. 9124-12 with the affirmative vote of at feast four Members of the City Council as required by Government
Code Section 53724(b), Except as expressly amended by this Ordinance, allprovisions of Chapter 3.12 of Title 3:of the Garden Grove Municipal Code shall
remain in 'full force and effect.

Section 7. Effective^ QSfe. The City Clerk shall certify as to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance. This Ordinance shall take effect ten (10) days
following the date on which the. City Council of the City of Garden Grove declares that this Ordinance was adopted by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure at the municipal election on Tuesday, November 6,2012.

The foregoing ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED by the People of the City Of Garden Grove voting on the 6th day of November,
2012, which vote was .certified by the City Council op the____day of______________,	2012.	I

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF GARDEN GROVE
MEASUREY

The Hotel Visitors Tax is a tax paid by guests that stay in hotels* motels or other similar accommodations (collectively -hotels”) in the City of Garden
Grove. The Current Hotel Visitors Tax rate, that was approved by Garden Grove voters in 2082, is 13% of the rcofn rental rate. The tax revenues generated
are used'for general City qf Garden Grove governmental .purposes such as police, fire, street maintenance, and: park and recreation services. If approved by
a majority of the voters, this measure will enact an ordinance increasing the tax rate from 13% to 14.5%.

This measure would also clarify existing language in the Garden Grove Municipal Code to (t).ertsure that Garden Grove receives the full amount of
the tax due for room rental when hotels offer packages that combine room rirttal charges with other activities, such as amusement park tickets or food
services; (2) confirm the application of the tax to time-share projects; (3) confirm the application of the tax to “block reservations" (i.e. reserving a group.of
rooms for “as needed” use), usually triads by corporations for intermittent use by corporate employees; and (4). update other existing provisions clarifying the
scope and application of the Hotei Visitors Tax.

in order to enact the amendments to the City's Municipal Code described above. Measure Y must be approved by a majority of the votes cast by the
voters on the bailot measure..

|	A	“yes”	vote	on	Measure	Y	will approve the amendments to the Gity'S Municipal Code described above.

A "nd” vote on Measure Y will disapprove the amendments to the City’s Municipal Code described above;

s/ Thomas F. Nixon
City Attorney

/

argument in favor of measure y	
We urge you to vote YES on Measure Y.	
Measure Y will provide badly needed funds for police, fire, and other essential city services, Measure Y authorizes an increase in the Hotel Visitor Tax by 1.5%. This, increase will be paid for by tourists who stay in Garden Grove hotels... not Garden Grove residents.	
Measure Y will help ensure that the hotels pay their fair shard for city services.	
We have studied this issue and want to give you the facts about the Hotel Visitor Tax.	
The Hotel Visitor Tax in Garden Grove provides essential funds to run city services. Garden Grove's public safety professionals support j Measure Y because it will provide nearly $1:5 million dollars. per year to	
the City of Garden Grove...rhohey that will mean safer streets and greater security.  Garden Grove currently has a 13% Hotel Visitor Tax that each hotel visitor pays. This is added on to each hotel .bill at the end of a tourist's	
stay. Almost every community.in America has this tax. Tourists staying in Anaheim pay a 15% visitor tax. Measure Y will increase the Garden Grove Visitor tax to 14.5%, still lower than neighboring Anaheim, Garden Grove's hotel operators have studied this issue and are firmly convinced that a 1,5% Increase will not harm their businesses or tourism. We will still be competitively lower than Anaheim!	
We must be ready to meet.new challenges. These are difficult times for our country and our community. We need to make sure that our local government can respond in any emergency situation or crisis. Measure Y will help keep Garden Grove ready to respond to any emergency situation.	N \ / -. i
REMEMBER, THIS TAX IS PAID FOR BY TOURISTS. WHO USE OUR CITY SERVICES...NOT GARDEN GROVE RESIDENTS.	' r -
WE URGE YOU TO VOTE YES ON MEASURE Y	
s/ Bruce Broadwater Council Member	1
s/ Kris Beard Council Member	

No argument against this measure was submitted.

aiilllUMIiKN	Sample	B«

/!



CITY ___________________________________

CO-Clty of Laguna Beach

Laguna Beach Open Space Acquisition and

Preservation Parcel Tax Measure

Shalt an ordinance be adopted to Impose a
parcel tax of $120 per year on each parcel of
property in the City, unless exempted, tor a
twenty-year period for the acquisition of land for
the permanent preservation of open space with
. the City?

11 _ I Yes

EJ No____________________

II11111 Hll 111II	3663031177 Sample	Ba

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE CC
CITY OF LAGUNA BEACH

'7T

THE LAGUNA BEACH OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION AND PRESERVATION PARCEL TAX MEASURE

The people of the City of Laguna Beach do hereby ordain as follows:	„	, „

SECTION 1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS

A.	Acquisition and Permanent Preservation of City’s Remaining Open Space	v

The purpose of this ballot measure {the “Measure”) is to provide a funding mechanism, over the next twenty years, that will ailow the City of Laguna Beach
(the ‘’City”) to further its longstanding efforts to acquire and permanently preserve the City's remaining open space. The Measure does so by creating a $120
annual pares! tax on each parcel of land within the City, Parcels that are exempt from property taxes would also be exempt from the tax created by this
Measure. Funds raised under this Measure will be used to acquire open space land from willing sellers only. The purchased lands will be permanently
preserved as open space. Four percent of funds generated by this tax each year shall be specifically dedicated for trail maintenance and fire safety. The tax
will expire after twenty years.

B.	The Role of Laguna Beach Residents in Protecting Open Space

Laguna Beach residents have long recognized that the unique character of our City and our quality of life depends on protecting the significant
environmental, aesthetic, economic, and recreational benefits that open space lands provide to the community. For instance, in 1990, nearly 80% of City
voters approved a $20 million bond measure to purchase Laguna Canyon lands, Similarly, in 1998, City residents overwhelmingly supported the Laguna
Beach Open Space Initiative to permanently protect the open space lands already owned by the City. As recognized by the City’s General Plan, which is the
City’s “constitution” for guiding future land use decisions, “[t]he City's open space resources possess important aesthetic and recreational value, and
provide vital wildlife and vegetative habitats, In addition, the undeveloped hillsides contribute greatly to the community identity that distinguishes Laguna
Beach from surrounding communities.” For many years, whenever there has been a reasonable opportunity to acquire undeveloped open space lands from
witling sellers, the City Council has voted to do so. The Measure will provide a dedicated annual revenue source for such purposes so as to ensure this
continued pattern for at least the next twenty years.

C.	Threats to Laguna Beach’s Remaining Unprotected Lands

Although the City has preserved many open space lands, which now form the Laguna greenbelt, there are remaining hillside open spaces adjacent to
residential neighborhoods that could be proposed for development. Conversion of these lands into various types of urban development would result in the
loss of valuable habitat, increased runoff and erosion, and intrusion into public viewsheds. Avoiding development on these lands would minimize these
risks. Preserving these lands would protect property values and public health and safety while minimizing increased traffic and protecting existing scenic
views, air and water quality, and existing water and biological resources.

D.	Establishing Effective Community Oversight

The Measure establishes an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee as a watchdog to ensure that all funds generated under the Measure are used
cost-effectively and only for their intended open space acquisition and preservation purposes. This Committee, andtheCity’schief fiscal officer, would each
provide publicly available annual reports on the use of all funds generated by the Measure. The Citizens’ Oversight Committee would also review in advance
proposed expenditures of the funds generated by the Measure.

SECTION 2:	ADOPTION	OF	OPEN	SPACE	PARCEL	TAX

Special Tax for Open Space Acquisition and Preservation

An annual parcel tax of $120 is hereby imposed on each parcel of land within the City of Laguna Beach (Ihe "City"), to be used for the specific open space
acquisition and preservation purposes, and subject to the community oversight and accountability measures, set forth below. This “Open Space Special
Parcel Tax” shall cease to be imposed or collected after it has been collected for twenty years.

Definition of Parcel

For purposes of this Open Space Special Parcel Tax, a “parcel" is defined as any unit of land within the City that receives a separate tax bill for act valorem
property taxes from the Orange County Assessor’s Office. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property taxes are levied
in any year shall also be exempt from the Open Space Special Parcel Tax in such year,	.............................

Statement of Purposes

Proceeds from the Open Space Special Parcel Tax (“Tax Funds") may only be used for the following purposes:

•	Purchase of open space lands within the City from willing sellers for use as open space;

•	Provide for fire safety and trail maintenance on City-owned open space lands that are purchased with Tax Funds. Four percent of the Tax Funds
generated each year shall be specifically dedicated for fire safety and trail maintenance purposes on such lands. Fire safety activities funded by this tax
shall reduce fire hazards to adjacent urban lands while maintaining and enhancing Geological values and native vegetation to the extent feasible;

•	Create and. as necessary, provide limited funding for a five-member Citizens' Oversight Committee to monitor use and spending of Tax Funds; and

•	Pay administrative costs necessary to collect and administer the Open Space Special Parcel Tax.

Accountability and Oversight

Alt Tax Funds shall bs deposited in a separate account estabtishedfor the purpose of receiving these funds. The City’s chief fiscal officer shall file an annual
report with the City Council no later than January 1,2013, and at least once a year thereafter until ona year after ail tax authorized under the Measure has
been collected and expended, that states the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any purchase or activity authorized to be funded
under the Measure.

Citizens’ Oversight Committee: Prior to expenditure of any Tax Funds, the City Council shall appoint a Citizens' Oversight Committee (“Committee”) with
responsibility to ensure that the Tax Funds are expended in accordance with this Measure.

a.	Responsibilities: The Committee shall review proposed expenditures of the Tax Funds prior to their approval by the City Council (or by any subordinate
City body that will make recommendations regarding such expenditures to the City Council) and shall submit comments to the City Council and any such
bodies on whether the proposals are cost-effective and consistent with She purposes of this Measure, if the Committee objects in writing to a proposed
expenditure of Tax Funds submitted to the City CounciUhen the City Council shall not approve such expenditure unless it adopts written findings explaining
the basis for its decision not to follow the Committee’s recommendation. The Committee shall annually prepare a report to the City Council and the public
making recommendations and evaluating progress concerning expenditure of the Tax Funds. The City Council shall receive and review this report annually
at a noticed public meeting. No more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the Tax Funds collected in a year may be allocated or used to fund the
Committee’s activities. The Committee members shall not receive any financial remuneration (including, but not limited to, compensation, per diem, health
care, or other employee benefits) for their service on the Committee.

b.	Membership and Organization: The Committee shall consist of five members who are residents of the City. No currently elected or appointed city, [
district, county, state, or federal official may serve as a Committee member.

The City Council shall solicit, collect, and review applications for membership on the Committee. Appointments shall be made by a majority vote of the City f
Council considering the following criteria: (i) interest and history of participation in community activities; and (ii) knowledge of open space, fire safety, land [
acquisition, or government accountability issues.

Committee membership shall include the following: (i) a representative of a local taxpayer group; (ii) a representative of a local business group or the
financial community; (Hi) a representative of a local open space advocacy group; and (iv) two representatives of the City at-large.

All members shall have terms of four years; provided, however, that the five members first appointed shall draw lots to select two members who shall serve
Initial terms of two years. No member shall consecutively serve more than two four-year terms. No member shall be removed during the course of his or her
term except for good cause, or if the member has more than three unexcused absences from meetings of the Committee. An absence is excused if a
member submits a written or electronic mail request to excuse the absence and a majority of the other members accept the request at the meeting where it is
considered. A member vacancy shall be filled through the appointment process and in compliance with the membership representation described above.
The Committee may select its own officers and adopt procedural rules and regulations to govern the conduct of Committee meetings.

c.	Open Meetings and Confliots of Interest: The Committee shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act, Government Code
section 54950 et seq., including posting of all agendas, conducting open meetings, and approving its meeting minutes. The Committee shall also comply
with the conflict of interest provisions set forth In Chapter 7 of the Political Reform Act, Government Code section 87100 et seq, and its implementing
regulations, even if the Committee would not otherwise be subject to these requirements.

Prohibition on Using Acquired Open Space Lands for Non-Open Space Uses

Lands acquired with Tax Funds generated by the Open Space Special Parcel Tax shall be preserved as open space in perpetuity and shall not be used for
any purposes inconsistent with open space uses. For purposes of this Measure, "open space uses” means: greenbeits, watershed areas, wildlife preserves,
marine preserves, hiking trails, historical preserves, scientific studies, and vista points. Additional low-impact passive uses may be permitted, subject to a
conditional use permit, where the City Council finds that those uses will not conflict with the open space uses described above and will not have a significant
effect on the environment.

As a condition of any purchase of lands with the Tax Funds, the City shall require the seller to impose in the grant deed a deed restriction on the purchased
lands in substantially the following form:

"This conveyance is made subject to the requirement, which requirement shall extend and be protected in perpetuily, that the Property shall be
used exclusively for the following open space purposes: (a) greenbeits, watershed areas, wildlife preserves, marine preserves, hiking trails,
historical preserves, scientific studies, vista points, and (b) additional low-impact passive uses, permitted by a conditional use permit, where the
City Council finds that those uses will not conflict with the open space uses described above and will not have a significant adverse effect on the
environment. No development, as defined in California Public Resources Code Section 30106, including but not limited to removal of trees and
other major or native vegetation, grading, paving, installation of structures, such as signs, buildings, etc. shall occur or be .allowed on the
Property with the exception of the following: (a) removal of hazardous substances or conditions, diseased plants or trees, or non-native invasive
species; (b) modifications required by the Orange County Fire Department or the Laguna Beach Fire Department; (c) modifications to facilitate
habitat restoration, and (d) installation of signs and interpretive materials approved by the City.

Grantee is prohibited from transferring the Property, whether or not for consideration, unless the following conditions are met; (i) Grantee
requires as a condition of any transfer that transferee continue to use the Property exclusively for one or both of the open space purposes set
forth above, and (Ii) at the time of Grantee’s transfer to transferee, transferee is a 'qualified organization’ as those terms are defined in Internal
Revenue Coda Section 170(h)(3), If a future unexpected change occurs in the condition of or surrounding the Property, and such change makes
impossible or impractical the continued use of the Property for the open space purposes set forth above, then Grantee may sell or exchange the
Properly; provided Grantee exclusively uses any proceeds of sale, or property received in exchange, in a manner consistent with the open
space purposes set forth above,"

If it determines that doing so is necessary to ensure the validity of the deed restriction, the City Council may modify the form of the deed restriction language
required to be imposed on lands purchased with the Tax Funds, provided, however, that any such modification(s) shall be consistent with the purposes of
this Measure,

Pursuant to its usual and customary procedures, and consistent with State law, the City Council shall amend the City of Laguna Beach Land Use Plan Map
to designate any lands acquired with Tax Funds as "Permanent Open Space." The City Council is hereby authorized and directed to amend the General
Plan, the Local Coastal Plan, all specific plans, the Zoning Ordinance, the Zoning Map, and other affected ordinances and policies as soon as possible and
in the manner and time required by any applicable State law, to ensure consistency between these Land Use Plan Map designations and other elements of
the General Plan, the Local Coastal Plan, all specific plans, the Zoning Ordinance, the Zoning Map, and other City ordinances and policies.

Prohibition on Using Funds to Acquire Land via Eminent Domain

No Tax Funds shall be used to acquire lands via eminent domain.

SECTION 3: IMPLEMENTATION

Although it is notan ad valorem tax, the Open Space Special Parcel Tax shall be billed by the County of Orange (the "County") on the securedroli tax bills for
ad valorem property taxes and shall be due to the City. The Open Space Special Parcel Tax shall be collected in the same manner in which the County
collects secured roll ad valorem property taxes. The reasonable costs incurred by the County in collecting and administering this special tax may be
deducted from the collected tax.

SECTION 4: SEVERABiLfTY AND INTERPRETATION

This Measure shall be interpreted so as to be consistent with ail applicable Federal, State, and City laws, rules, and regulations. If any section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion of this Measure is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a final judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Measure. The voters hereby declare that this Measure, and
each section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion thereof would have been adopted or passed even if one or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases, parts, or portions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any
provision of this Measure is held invalid as applied to any person or circumstance, such invalidity shall not affect any application of this Measure that can be
given effect without the invalid application. This Measure shall be broadly construed in order to achieve the purposes stated In this Measure.

SECTION 5: AMENDMENT OR REPEAL

Except as otherwise provided herein, this Measure may be amended or repealed only by the voters of the City.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF LAGUNA BEACH
MEASURE CC

Laguna Beach Open Space Acquisition and Preservation Parcel Tax Measure

This ballot measure, if approved by the voters, would establish a funding mechanism for the acquisition of land for the permanent preservaiion of open space
within the City. For each year during a twenty-year period, a special parcel tax of $120 would be levied on each parcel of properly in the City, except for
properties already exempt from property taxes or on which no property taxes are levied. A two-thirds majority of the voters must approve the batiot measure
for it to be adopted.

The revenues collected from the parcel tax would be placed in a separate account and may only be used for the following purposes:

•	The purchase of open space lands wtibin the City for open space purposes. Purchase would be from willing sellers only. Tax proceeds could not be
used to acquire property through eminent domain proceedings.

•	The provision of fire safety and trail maintenance on City-owned open space lands that are purchased with tax proceeds. Four percent of the tax
proceeds each year would be specifically dedicated to this purpose.

•	The creation and, as necessary, the provision of limited funding for a Citizens’ Oversight Committee to monitor use and spending of the tax proceeds.

•	The payment of administrative costs necessary to collect and administer the parcel lax.

The bailot measure defines "open space uses” to mean greenbelts, watershed areas, wildlife preserves, marine preserves, hiking trails, historical preserves,
scientific studies, and vista points. The City may approve conditional use permits for additional low-impact passive uses that do not conflict with open space
uses and do not have a significant effect on the environment. Permanent open space requirements would be established through deed restrictions on lands
acquired with tax proceeds.

The ballot measure creates a five-member Citizens' Oversight Committee to be appointed by the City Council. Three members would be representatives of
a focal taxpayer group, a local business group or the financial community, and a local open space advocacy group; and two members would be selected
from the community at large. State open meeting and conflict of interest laws would apply to the Committee’s activities.

The responsibilities of the Citizens' Oversight Committee include reviewing proposed expenditures of tax proceeds and submitting comments to the City
concerning the cost-effectiveness of proposed expenditures and their consistency with the purposes of the ballot measure. If the Committee objects to a
proposed expenditure, then the Cily could not approve it unless the City Council adopts written findings explaining the basis for its decision not to follow the
Committee’s recommendation. The Committee would be responsible for preparing an annual public report making recommendations and evaluating
progress concerning expenditures of tax proceeds. The report would be reviewed by the City Council at a noticed public meeting. Also annually, the City's
chief fiscal officer must file a report stating the amount of tax funds collected and expended, and the status of any purchase or activity authorized fo be
funded.

Dated: July 20, 2012

sI Philip D. Kohn
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE CC

THE LAGUNA BEACH OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION AND
PRESERVATION PARCEL TAX MEASURE

LEGACY (noun): something handed down from previous generations

Our community is special. That's no accident. Our schools, hospital, and
arts venues reflect the vision and initiative of previous generations.
Well-established institutions and unique public spaces help set Laguna
apart. So does our open space—thanks to enlightened leadership and, at
crucial moments, strong citizen involvement.

In 1989, in a landmark event, thousands filled the Canyon Road to oppose
developing Laguna Canyon. Voters in 1990 authorized a bond to purchase
that land for open space. State funding since then has helped to continue
our conservation efforts.

The job is not quite done. The green, naturally vegetated hillsides and
canyons around town may look like open space, but nearly 400 acres
remain in private hands, vulnerable to development. Recognizing that state
funds for open space are no longer available, volunteers last fail gathered
thousands of signatures for Measure CC.

Measure CC says, in part, "for many years, whenever there has been a
reasonable opportunity to acquire undeveloped open space lands from
willing sellers, the City Council has voted to do so. The Measure will ...
ensure this continued pattern for at least the next twenty years.”

Thisis more than a lofty goal. Edward McMahon, Senior Research Fellow at
the Urban Land Institute, the nation's leading real estate forum, says that
more green space leads to higher property values. That makes Measure
CC a solid investment.

The proposed annual tax of S120 per parcel will generate $21 million over
20 years and then automatically expire. Only the City Council, with
oversight by a citizens' watchdog committee, can approve acquisitions.
Visit iaaunaopenspace.com to learn more.

Let’s continue Laguna’s forward-thinking tradition. As our legacy, lot’s keep
on saving the naturally beautiful setting that makes Laguna, Laguna. Vote
YES on CC.

s/ Fred Droz

Former Chairperson, Laguna Beach Vision Steering Committee

s/ Michael Gosselin .

Laguna Beach Realtor®

s/ Elisabeth M. Brown

Local Conservationist and Community Leader
s/ Theresa O’Hare

Governing Board Member, Laguna Beach Unified School District
s/ Gary T. Jenkins

Pediatrician, 2012 Patriots Day Citizen of the Year

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE CC

THE LAGUNA BEACH OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION ANO
PRESERVATION PARCEL TAX MEASURE

Legacy (noun) something handed down from previous generations.
But not a $20,000,000 debt handed down to our children and grandchildren.

Quote by Thomas Jefferson—It is incumbent on every generation to
pay its own debts as it goes.

These paresis are unbuiidable as is the open space next to them. The
only citizens that will gain from this parcel tax are the landowners that
bought the land on speculation. They pay taxes on this land every year.
Let's keep it that way.

VOTE NO ON THE PARCEL TAX .

8/ Martha Lydick

President, Laguna Beach Taxpayers Association

1

L

ARGUMENTA^N^iimURECC'

THE LAGUNA BEACH OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION AND
PRESERVATION PARCEL TAX MEASURE

When there is a legitimate opportunity to add land acquisition to our
successful open space program, that is a good thing for our community.
Imposing a special tax to fund a vaguely defined property acquisition
program, is not. This special parcel tax not only sets a philosophical
precedent which goes against common sense, but it creates a $20 million
tax levy on ail private property owners, takes away real estate tax income
on property currently owned and, adds the cost of maintenance and ilabilily
for newly acquired land.

A special tax should bB approved only if one of two conditions
exists: an emergency has occurred for which there is no other funding such
as the 2005 Bluebird Canyon slide: or, a unique opportunity for purchase
becomes available such as Measure H, for the Canyon open space.

Neilher one of these conditions exist. The previous bond Measure
H was levied to pay for land already under contract. The parcel tax is
earmarked for purchase of an unstated quantity of privately owned parcels
of unknown price,

Most of the open space that will be purchased with tax dollars under
this program is open because the parcels are either too smali to be usable,
are unbuildabfe, or are not accessible by city streets. Although limited to
"willing sellers", the combined effect of strict controls on development and
costs of private ownership of unusable land will make many owners not only
willing but eager to sell unused parcels to the city for windfall profits.
Developer speculation on unbuiidable sites could cost the city millions.

Finally, only $4Q,000/year is dedicated to its maintenance.
Acquisition of these lands by the city will benefit few but create new costs
and liabilities for the entire community.

VOTE NO ON THE PARCEL TAX.
s/ Bobbi Cox, Reaitor
s/ Steve Dicterow, former Mayor
s/ Michele Hall, President Laguna Beach Republicans
s/ Cheryi Kinsman, CPA, former Mayor
s/ Martha Lydick, Laguna Beach Taxpayers Assoclaiion

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENTAGAINST MEAliltIRECC "

THE LAGUNA BEACH OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION AND
PRESERVATION PARCEL TAX MEASURE

The Taxpayers Association raises questions clearly addressed by Measure
CC. Visit laaunaopensoace .com to read the initiative for yourself and revisw
the Frequently Asked Questions section.

For 25 years, Laguna relied on. State conservation funds to acquire open
space when it made sense. The Taxpayers say this Is a good thing, We
agree.

State conservation funds, now largely depleted, were available only
because voters, and Laguna voters overwhelmingly, supported the Idea of
setting aside dollars for open space. Such funds were accessed when land
purchases of lasting value for the public materialized. That's how Measure
CC would work.

The difference under Measure CC is that our tax dollars won’t go to
Sacramento, they’ll stay here. We'll see our tax dollars at work, maintaining
the character of our community.

The Taxpayers say Measure CC fails to meet conditions that would warrant
their support: (1) an emergency or (2} a special opportunity. They offer the
2005 Bluebird Canyon landslide and The Irvine Company’s plans to
develop Laguna Canyon as more compelling situations.

Yet the Taxpayers opposed the Save the Canyon bond, Measure H. Had
voters listened to the Taxpayers then, there would be 3,500 homes in the
Canyon. The Taxpayers did not support the temporary sales tax to pay for
the Bluebird landslide repairs—and failed to suggest any alternative.

We support Measure CC because it is a special opportunity. A modest,
short-term investment now will preserve a crucial part of what makes
Laguna Beach so special.

s/ Nelf Fitzpatrick
Former Laguna Beach Mayor

s/ John B. Thomas
Real Estate Consultant

s/ Sam Goldstein

Laguna Live Co-Founder and Downtown Laguna Businessman

s/ Michael Ray

North Laguna Resident, Developer, and
Great Park Conservancy Board Member

s/ Mark Christy
Lifelong Laguna Resident