VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

{whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF HEALDSBURG
MEASURE V

To stabilize City finances, offset declining revenues and

Vthe loss of redevelopment, and maintain and protect
essential City services, shall the City of Heaidsburg adopt
an ordinance enacting a one-half of one percent
transactions and use tax, automatically expiring in ten years, with
annual audits and review, and with all funds spent locally for the
benefit of Heaidsburg residents?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE V

The City Council of the City of Heaidsburg (“City Council") has established
November 6,2012 as the date for an election on a proposed ballot measure to en-
act a one-half of one percent (0,50%) transactions (sales) and use tax. The current
sales tax rate is 8.00%. Ail proceeds from the saies tax will be collected by the
State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City for any legitimate governmen-
tal purpose. It is, therefore, a “general tax" requiring approval of a majority of the
voters.

The tax would be imposed on retail sales in substantially the same manner as the
existing sales tax, with retailers collecting it and remitting the funds to the State
Board of Equalization, which administers the tax in accordance with the California
Revenue and Taxation Code and distributes the funds to the City. If the ballot mea-
sure is approved by the voters, the tax will become operative on April 1,2013 and
automatically terminate ten years after it becomes operative unless extended by
the voters.

Approval of the ballot measure would adopt an Ordinance imposing the saies and
use tax and certain other administrative provisions and information relating to im-
position of the tax, exemptions and exclusions (in accordance with state Saw). The
Ordinance requires the City to complete an annual report reviewing the collection
and expenditure of revenue from the tax, The annual report will be a matter of public
record. A copy of the Ordinance is printed in its entirety with the election materials.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the Vz cent tax. A “No” vote is a vote not to approve
the tax. This measure will be approved if it receives a simple majority of “Yes”
votes.

s! Michael Gogna, City Attorney
City of Heaidsburg

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V

The recession and recurring State takeaways have dramatically impacted the
City’s ability to maintain its core services. Reduced development and tourism activ-
ity has led to decreased revenue from saies, property and transient occupancy
taxes and the dissolution of redevelopment has adversely impacted economic
development efforts.

Expenses have outpaced revenues; however, over the past three years the City
Council has made a concerted effort to reduce expenses. Cost savings actions
taken include: reduction of workforce by 18%; reduced employee benefits resulting
in approximately $2.3 million savings in personnel costs; departments were down-
sized and streamlined for efficiency; across the board budget cuts and elimination
of many noncore activities. More cuts can be made, but not without significant
impacts to residents.

Despite these cuts, the FY 2012/13 budget was adopted with a projected deficit of
$807,666, Additional revenue is necessary for the City to maintain the level and
quality of services Heaidsburg residents have come to expect. We need Measure V,

Accountability regarding the use of Measure V revenues is very important. That is
why the initiative calls for annual reports citing how the funds are spent. Citizens
will be able to see what programs, projects and/or services were funded each year.
Measure V is not permanent; the tax will automatically expire after 10 years.

Vote Yes on Measure V because it provides a protected and reliable source of rev-
enue, estimated to raise $1 million per year. These funds cannot be taken by the
State. This is a local measure, under local control, so funds can be spent locally.
Revenue generated by Measure V will safeguard the City’s ability to maintain
current programs and services, it will also help prevent further cuts to programs and
services.

Join us in voting yes on Measure V.

HEALDSBURG CITY COUNCIL
$/ Gary W. Plass, Mayor

HEALDSBURG CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
s/ Carla A. Howell, Presidenf/CEO

s/Jesse D. Shaw

NO REBUTTAL WAS SUBMITTED TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE V

HEALDSBURG CITY COUNCIL
$/ Susan E. Jones, Vice-Mayor

s/ Mark Decker

79

9593

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE V

Basic government services are eroding across California as soaring pension costs
overwhelm city budgets. Heaidsburg is no different. Some California cities have
declared bankruptcy and more are expected to do so as the public employee pen-
sion crisis goes unchecked. Sales tax measures merely delay the inevitable reck-
oning and even make matters worse as pension liabilities continue to grow.

Heaidsburg devotes fully 95% of its budget to police and fire services yet still faces
a $26 million unfunded employee pension liability. With over 35% of the city's-pub-
lic safety payroll cost devoted to pensions, neither the city nor its employees have
made a meaningful effort to rein in these expenses. Sonoma County, for example,
pays about 20% of payroll for pensions and that is considered unsustainable. The
County’s goal is to get that cost down to 10% of payroll in 10 years.

To be sure, Heaidsburg has undertaken some baby steps toward pension reform.
Employees are now paying more of the employees’ share of annual pension contri-
butions, although one must ask why the city was paying the employees’ share in
the first place? And two-tiered plans have been adopted that impose salary and
benefit reductions on the next generation of workers. Again, one must ask if placing
the lion's share of the burden on our children so that current employees may con-
tinue to enjoy overly generous compensation and benefits is how we intend to
solve the problem?

Current public safety employees retain the same compensation and benefits that
have led to the current crisis, There have been no reductions to either. Until the
public employees' unions step up and to do their fair share to reduce unsustainable
compensation and pension costs, residents should not be expected to shoulder a
greater burden.

We recommend a no vote.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION

s/ Dan Drummond, Executive Director	si Jack Atkin, President

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE V

The fiscal crisis facing Heaidsburg is the result of a combination of factors: the on-
going recession, weak economy, decreases in sales, property and transient occu-
pancy taxes, and state raids on city monies. Pension liabilities are not the cause of
the City's general fund deficit. Despite the reduced revenues, the City has continued
to provide a high level of service to its citizens.

The argument against Measure V is factually incorrect. Public safety is 8% of the
total budget and 83% of the general fund budget. Pensions account for 22% of
payroll costs for public safety and 17% for ail employees. The referenced $26 million
unfunded pension liability was derived through a Stanford research project based
on assumptions, not actual circumstances. Unfortunately, this figure has been rep-
resented as a real calculation; thats simply not accurate.

The City Council cannot unilaterally eliminate or change employee benefits. By
law, cuts to employee benefits are subject to collective bargaining. Furthermore,
retirement benefits are legislated by the California Public Employees Retirement
Law. Cities do not have authority to impose pension formulas or retirement pians
outside of CalPERS options. Despite these limitations, the City Council and em-
ployees have taken significant steps to reduce personnel costs.

All bargaining units offered concessions. Employees saw a reduction in benefits of
5-10% and there have been no pay raises since 2008. We need employees to pro-
vide essential services. The Council remains committed to moving the City toward
financial sustainability.

Vote yes on Measure V.

HEAIDSBURG CITY COUNCIL	HEALDSBURG	CITY	COUNCIL

s/ Gary W. Plass, Mayor	si	Susan	E.	Jones,	Vice Mayor

si Mark L. Decker	si	Jesse	D.	Shaw

HEALDSBURG CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
sl Carla A. Howell, Pres/CEO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE V

Resolution No. 77-2012

EXHIBIT A

CITY OF HEALDSBURG

ORDINANCE NO._________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HEALDSBURG IMPOSING
A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY
THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, the State of California is faced with one of the largest deficits in
memory, currently estimated at more than $15 billion; and

WHEREAS, the State began shifting property tax revenue away from cities
in the 1990’s and these ''takeaways" continue as evidenced by the State’s recent
elimination of the City's redevelopment agency and its confiscation in June 2012 of
millions in agency property tax revenues that could have been used on local
projects; and

WHEREAS, in addition to State takeaways, the City - like all California cities -
has faced declining revenues from falling home prices and reduced consumer
spending while costs have increased to fund essential City services residents rely
upon; and

WHEREAS, through this financial crisis the City has practiced fiscal pru-
dence by eliminating staff, obtaining concessions from bargaining units, trimming
contract services, reducing supplies, centralizing purchasing, salvaging and recy-
cling materials, auditing tax and licensing programs to collect delinquent fees and
improve compliance, pursuing contracts for shared services where appropriate,
and diligent fiscal management by department heads; and

WHEREAS, despite the City’s best efforts, on June 18,2012 the City Council
unanimously approved Resolution No. 65-2012 adopting the Fiscal Year 2012-13
Operating Budget while recognizing that additional revenue would be needed to
maintain and preserve the level of services desired by City residents; and

WHEREAS, without additional revenue, the City will be required to make
additional cuts to address its budget shortfall which will have the effect of further re-
ducing critical government services; and

WHEREAS, a local finance measure would protect and maintain City pro-
grams and services because the money is legally required to stay in the community
and cannot be taken by the State, providing locally controlled funds for local
services; and

WHEREAS, after considering information and materials provided by the
public and City staff, receiving public comment and staff presentations throughout
the budget process and at special meetings expressly called for the purpose of
considering possible revenue measures, the City Council has concluded that to
obtain the revenue necessary to maintain and preserve service levels the Council
should call an election to ask the voters of the City to approve a 10-year local
transactions and use tax, the revenue from which could be used to support general
municipal services; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council determined that
it was appropriate to place a measure regarding a general transactions and use
(sales) tax before the voters at the November 6, 2012 general election; and

WHEREAS, the tax to be submitted to the voters, if approved, would be im-
posed on retail transactions and use of personal property. The tax rate would be
one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The tax revenue
would be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City. The
tax would be in effect for 10 years, and would then expire automatically, unless ex-
tended by the voters. The tax shall be approved if the measure receives at least a
simple majority of affirmative votes; and

CONT. NEXT PAGE

80

9593

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE V, CONT,

WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized by California Elections Code
Section 9222 to place measures before the voters; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Sections 9219 and 9282 set forth the proce-
dures for arguments in favor of or in opposition of any City measure; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Sections 9220 and 9285 set forth the proce-
dures for rebuttal arguments; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the election be consolidated with the state-
wide election to be held on the same date and that within the City, the precincts,
poiling places and election officers of the two elections be the same, and that the
Sonoma County Department of Elections canvass the returns of the General Elec-
tion and that the election be held in all respects as if there were only one election;
and

WHEREAS, this Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental
Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq,, “CEQA," and 14 Cal. Code
Reg. §§ 15000 et seq„ “CEQA Guidelines"). The transactions and use tax approved
by the voters is a general tax that can be used for any legitimate governmental
purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular action. As such, under CEQA
Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA
because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not involve any
commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant physi-
cal impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that
would have either such effect, the City would undertake the required CEQA review
for that particular project. Therefore, under CEQA Guidelines section 15080 review
under CEQA is not required;

NOW THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HEALDSBURG DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Amendment of Code

The Healdsburg Municipal Code is hereby amended by the addition of a new
Chapter 3.06 to read as follows:

3.06.010	Title.

This chapter shall be known as the "Healdsburg Transactions and Use Tax Ordi-
nance." The City of Healdsburg hereinafter shall be called “City." This ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.06.020	Purpose.

The ordinance codified herein is adopted to achieve the following, among other,
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accom-
plish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1,6 (commencing with Section 7251} of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code and Section 7285,9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes
the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the elec-
tors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorpo-
rates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by
the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and admin-
istrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be ad-
ministered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize

the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize
the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions
of this ordinance.

3,06.030	Operative Date.

"Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

3.06.040	Contract with State.

Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equaliza-
tion to perform al! functions incident to the administration and operation hereof. If
the City has not contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the Opera-
tive Date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the Operative Date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract. The Council may make any technical amendments to this Chapter re-
quired by the State Board of Equalization, except for any changes affecting the tax
rate, its manner of collection, or the purpose for which the revenue from the tax
may be used.

3.06.050	Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby im-
posed upon ail retailers in the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of
the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold
at retail in the City on and after the Operative Date of this Chapter.

3.06.060	Presumption as to Place	of Sales.

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no per-
manent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the
place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the Board of Equalization.

3.06.070	Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on or after the Oper-
ative Date of this Chapter, at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sates
price of the property subject to the tax. The sates price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

3.06.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and except insofar as they are incon-
sistent with the provisions of Part 16 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
Chapter as though fuliy set forth herein.

3.06.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing

agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitu-
tion shall not be made when:

(1)	The word “State" is used as a part of the title of the State Con-
troller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

CONT. NEXT PAGE

81

9593

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

{whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE V, CONT.

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions Incident to the
administration or operation of this Chapter.

(3)	in those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sec*
tions referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result
of the substitution would be to;

(a)	Provide an exemption from this Tax with respect to cer-
tain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this Tax while such saies, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(b)	Impose this Tax with respect to certain saies, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject
to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

(4)	in Sections 6701,6702 {except in the last sentence thereof),
6711,6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City” shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of
that phrase in Section 6203.

3.06,100	Permit Not Required,

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
Chapter,

3.06,110	Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the Tax the amount of
any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Saies and Use Tax
Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the trans-
actions tax the gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such air-
craft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Saies of property to be used outside the City which is shipped
. to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point
by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipmentloa
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point out-
side the City shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2
of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
piace of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible persona! property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the Operative Date of this Chapter,

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale
of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the Operative Date of this
Chapter,

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pur-
suant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Chapter, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to
a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compen-
sation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Reve-
nue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	if the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this Chapter.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase
of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the Operative Date of this Chapter.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, stor-
age, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible persona! property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible persona! property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but
not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place
of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, can-
vasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, air-
craft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at
an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transaction tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer iiabie for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the prop-
erty the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.06.120	Amendments.

Ali amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Chapter to Part 1 of Divi-
sion 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to saies and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and ail amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the

CONT. NEXT PAGE

82

9593

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE V, CONT.	"

Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this Chapter,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of
tax imposed by this Chapter.

3.06.130	Enjoining Collection Prohibited.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against the State or this City, or against
any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection hereunder, or
Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

3.06.140	Annual Audit and Review.

At the time the City's annual audit is performed, the City shall complete a report re-
viewing the collection and expenditure of revenue from the tax authorized by this
Chapter. The report shall be a public document and shall be reviewed by the City
Council at the time it conducts budget deliberations.

Section 2. Severability

if any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase or word of this Ordinance is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional, unlawful or otherwise invalid by a court
of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance.

Section 3. Effective Date

This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and
use tax and shall take effect immediately.

Section 4. Termination Date

■ The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the tenth
(10ih) anniversary of the last day of the calendar quarter preceding the Operative
Date set forth above.

APPROVED (or DENIED) by the following vote of the People of the City of
Healdsburg on November 6,2012:

_______YES ____________NO _____________TOTAL VOTES

RESULTS DECLARED by the City Council of the City of Healdsburg on___,

2012.

SO ORDERED	ATTEST

Gary W. Piass, Mayor	Maria	Curiel,	City	Clerk

Dated __________________

83

9593