

<summary> FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE N

Chapter 4.24 Transient Occupancy Tax
4.24.030 Imposition-Amount.

For the privilege of occupancy in any transient occupancy facility, such transient is
subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of eleven percent of the rent charged.
Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the County which is
extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the County. The transient shall
pay the tax to the operator of the transient occupancy facility at the time the rent is
paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid
with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to
occupy space in the transient occupancy facility. If for any reason the tax due is not
paid to the operator of the transient occupancy facility, the Tax Administrator may
require that such tax shall be paid directly to the Tax Administrator. <summaryend>




<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE N

If approved by a majority of those voting upon it, this measure will amend the
section of the Santa Cruz County Code which sets the rate of the “transient
occupancy tax” and will increase it from the current rate of 9-1/2% to a new rate of
11%.

State law authorizes adoption of a transient occupancy tax, also referred to as a
“TOT.” This tax is applied to the rent charged at hotels, inns, tourist homes or
houses, motels and private campgrounds located in the unincorporated area of
Santa Cruz County (“the County”), for stays up to 30 days. Exclusions of certain
ownership interests and properties from application of the TOT are set out in both
State law and the County Code.

Proceeds of the TOT at the new rate, if approved, will be deposited into the
County’s general fund which is available for general governmental purposes as
directed by the County Board of Supervisors; it is not designated for specific
programs or purposes. Because the general fund pays for services available to all
County residents, voters who live within a city in the County are entitled to vote
upon this measure even though it will not apply to lodgings within their city. Each
city in the County has its own TOT that is only applied to lodging within that city.

A “yes” vote on Measure N is to approve the increase in the rate of the transient
occupancy tax.

A “no” vote on Measure N is against an increase in the rate of the transient
occupancy tax. <impartialend>



<impartialsigs> DANA McRAE
COUNTY COUNSEL <impartialsigsend>



<fiscal> FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT BY COUNTY AUDITOR
MEASURE N

Measure N applies only to lodging facilities in the unincorporated area of the
County. It proposes to increase the transient occupancy tax, also known as the
hotel tax, on renters of lodging facilities in the unincorporated area by VA% of the
room rate, increasing it from the current 9%% of the room rate to 11 % of the room
rate.

The transient occupancy tax is imposed upon renters of a room in a hotel, motel,
inn, bed and breakfast, vacation rental house or other lodging establishment when
rented for 30 days or less. The tax is collected by the lodging operator and then
remitted to the County Treasurer-Tax Collector. Since the tax is imposed primarily
upon visitors, it does not impose a local tax burden on residents of the County of
Santa Cruz.

The transient occupancy tax in the unincorporated area of the County generated
an annual average of $4.0 million since 2005 for the County general fund, with a
low of $3.5 million during fiscal year 2009-10, and a high of $4.6 million during fiscal
years 2007-08 and 2011-12. Revenue from the transient occupancy tax is the
County’s third largest discretionary tax source, following property tax and retail
sales tax.

If passed, the additional VA% transient occupancy tax would generate between
$525,000 and $725,000 of additional revenues to the County’s general fund to be
used for general public purposes such as public safety, law and justice, health
services or recreation. <fiscalend>




<fiscalsigs> MARY JO WALKER, CPA
Auditor-Controller
County of Santa Cruz <fiscalsigsend>


	
<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N  Measure N is a proactive effort to support critical services in our county without increasing your taxes. Measure N will protect the quality of life for residents by limiting cuts to police, fire, emergency services, health services, parks, and economic development efforts.  All of the money raised by Measure N will be used for critical local programs affected by the downturn in the economy. As a local measure, the State cannot take these funds. All of the money raised will be spent in our county and will help keep jobs and services that support local residents.  Measure N is a win-win proposition for Santa Cruz County residents. Visitors pay the transient occupancy tax (TOT) when they stay in county lodging facilities. This new money will not come out of county taxpayers’ pockets. With a low 1.5% increase, these funds help ensure that basic services are available for everyone.  Measure N only raises the TOT in the unincorporated area but provides benefits for the entire county. A similar measure is on the ballot in the City of Santa Cruz for lodging establishments there, and those funds will only be used in the City. Although there are two measures, the rate at lodging establishments will be the same in both jurisdictions and nobody will be charged twice. City of Santa Cruz residents need to vote YES on both measures in order to support services throughout the county.  County leaders worked with the Santa Cruz County Hospitality and Lodging Association and Conference and Visitors Council to place Measure N on the ballot and we enthusiastically endorse this measure.  Our county is proving that business, government, and community-based organizations can work together to continue to make Santa Cruz a wonderful place to live and an outstanding destination for visitors. We ask that you join us and vote YES on Measure N.  <favorend> 



<favorsigs> s/Jim Maggio General Manager, Seascape Resort  si Ellen Pirie County Supervisor  si Karen Delaney Community Volunteer	<favorsigsend>

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N WAS FILED.

