MEASURE D2012
City of Buellton
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX RATE INCREASE
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
To be Submitted to the Voters of the City of Bueliton

The Buellton Municipal Code (Chapter 3.28) currently
provides for a Bueliton Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) (a charge for
transient occupancy in hotels, motels, etc.) at the rate of ten percent
(10%) of the rent charged for occupancy in Bueliton hotels, etc.

If passed, this measure would amend the Bueliton Municipal Code
to provide that the Bueliton City Council may, by ordinance, increase
the amount of the TOT rate from ten percent (10%) up to a maximum of
twelve percent (12%). Any and all funds generated by the TOT are
deposited in the general fund of the City of Bueliton and may be
expended at the discretion of the City Council in accordance with law.

A “Yes" vote on Measure "D2012" is a vote in favor of allowing the
City Council to increase the TOT rate from ten percent (10%) to a
maximum of twelve percent (12%). A "No" vote on Measure "D2012" is
a vote to maintain the TOT at the existing rate of ten percent (10%).

This measure will be only adopted if it is approved by a majority of
the voters voting on this measure at the November 6,2012 election.

1st Ralph D. Hanson
City Attorney
City of Bueliton

MEASURE D2012

City of Bueliton

ARGUMENT !N FAVOR OF MEASURE

Tourism helps to bring revenue to the City of Bueliton in the form of
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT). This revenue is used towards the
City's parks, roads, community services, recreation, and maintenance.
A portion goes back to the Visitor's Bureau to promote and increase
tourism. This TOT has not changed in 15 years, which currently brings
in over one million dollars in revenue to the City of Bueliton. Measure
D2012 could increase Buellton's TOT to a maximum of 12%, which
would give the City an additional $200,000 annually. Remember, this is
NOT a tax on Bueliton residents and businesses. Only visitors to
Bueliton will pay the TOT.

The purpose of increasing TOT from 10% to 12% is to:

•	Offset decreased revenue in a sluggish economy we normally
receive from sales taxes.

•	Offset decreased revenue from property taxes.

•	Contribute and promote the growth, community enhancement,
tourism, and prosperity of the City.

VOTE YES FOR MEASURE D2012

This is an investment in Bueliton with NO cost to Bueliton residents
(unless staying in a Bueliton hotel room).

The undersigned author of the argument in favor of Measure D2012 at
the General Election for the City of Bueliton to be held on November 6,
2012 hereby states that this argument is true and correct to the best of
her knowledge and belief.

Isl Holly Sierra
Mayor, City of Bueliton

MEASURE D2012, City of Bueliton

TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX RATE INCREASE

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

To Be Submitted to the Voters of the City of Bueliton

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF BUELLTON DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 3.28.030 of Chapter 3.28 of the Bueliton Municipal
Code is hereby amended to read, as follows:

"3.28.030 Rate.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, the City Council
may, by ordinance, establish a tax rate at no greater than twelve
percent (12%) of the rent actually charged or customarily charged by
the operator for the rooms and/or facilities occupied by the transient.
Each transient is subject to and shall pay the tax in the amount set by
the City Council. This tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to
the city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator of the
hotel at the time the rent is paid. The unpaid tax is due upon the
transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel, If, for any reason, the
tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax administrator may
require that such tax be paid directly to the tax administrator,"