COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO

Condado de San Bernardino__________________

MEASURE Q

Medida Q___________________________________

COUNTY CHARTER AMENDMENT. CHARTER AMEND-
MENT NUMBER FORTY OF THE COUNTY OF SAN BER-
NARDINO TO ENACT A PERMANENT CAP ON
COMPENSATION AND MANDATORY TRANSPARENCY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVI-
SORS. Proposal submitted by the Board of Supervisors of the
County of San Bernardino, State of California, to amend the
Charter of the County of San Bernardino as follows:
Shall the Charter of the County of San Bernardino be
amended to enact a permanent cap on compensation and
mandatory transparency for members of the County Board of
Supervisors?

ENMIENDA DE LA CARTA ORGANICA DEL CONDADO.
ENMIENDA DE LA CARTA ORGANICA NUMERO
CUARENTA DEL CONDADO DE SAN BERNARDINO PARA
IMPLEMENTAR UN LIMITE PERMANENTE A LA
COMPENSACION Y TRANSPARENCY OBLIGATORY
PARA LOS MIEMBROS DE LA JUNTA DE SUPERVISORES
DEL CONDADO. Propuesta presentada por la Junta de
Supervisores del Condado de San Bernardino, Estado de
California, para enmendar la Carta Organica del Condado de
San Bernardino de la siguiente manera:
6Se debe de enmendar la Carta Organica del Condado de
San Bernardino para implementar un llmite permanente a la
compensacion y transparencia obligatoria para los miembros
de la Junta de Supervisores del Condado?

	YES / SI	t  A
	NO/ NO	t  A
MEASURE R		
Medida R		

COMPENSATION LIMITS AND BUDGET REDUCTIONS
FOR MEMBERS OF THE COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVI-
SORS. INITIATIVE CHARTER AMENDMENT. Shall the
County Charter be amended to change the elected office of
County Supervisor to a part-time position, eliminate the cur-
rent Charter provisions relating to salaries of all elected
County officials, establish monthly compensation for the
office of County Supervisor at $5,000 plus cola not to exceed
5% annually, establish a total annual budget for each County
Supervisor at five times the Supervisor’s compensation, and
redefine retirement benefits for the position of County
Supervisor?

UMITES DE COMPENSACION Y REDUCCIONES DE
PRESUPUESTO PARA MIEMBROS DE LA JUNTA DE
SUPERVISORES DEL CONDADO. ENMIENDA DE LA
CARTA ORGANICA POR INICIATIVA. 6Se debe enmendar la
Carta Organica del Condado para cambiar el cargo electo del
Supervisor del Condado a un puesto de medio tiempo,
eliminar las disposiciones actuales de la Carta Organica
relacionadas con los salarios de los oficiales del Condado
electos, establecer una compensacion mensual para el cargo
de Supervisor del Condado de $5,000 mas ajustes por el
incremento del costo de vida que no exceda el 5% anual,
establecer un presupuesto total anual para cada Supervisor
del Condado que sea cinco veces la compensacion del
Supervisor y volver a definir los beneficios de jubilacion para
el puesto del Supervisor del Condado?

YES / SI		*
NO/ NO		

CITY OF NEEDLES

Ciudad de Needles______________________________

MEASURE S

Medida S_______________________________________

Marijuana Business Tax.

In order to provide funding for essential City services such as
police, fire, emergency response, street maintenance, pot-
hole repair, parks, libraries and youth and senior programs,
shall an ordinance be adopted to impose a tax at a rate of up
to 10% of gross receipts on marijuana businesses in Needles,
subject to existing independent financial audits, with all reve-
nue controlled by the City?

Impuestos a los negocios de marihuana.

6Se debe adoptar una ordenanza para implementar un
impuesto a una tasa de hasta el 10% de las ganancias brutas
de los negocios de marihuana en Needles, sujeto a auditorlas
financieras independientes existentes, con todo el ingreso
controlado por la ciudad, con el fin de proporcionar fondos
para los servicios esenciales de la ciudad como policfa,
bomberos, respuestas de emergencia, mantenimiento de las
calles, reparacion de baches, parques, bibliotecas, y
programas para jovenes y ancianos?

	YES / SI	—
	NO/ NO	t  A
MEASURE T		
Medida T		

Utility User Tax.

Shall Needles eliminate 2.5% of the current 7.5% franchise fee
that the City of Needles charges the Needles Public Utility
Authority and in its place establish a utility use tax of up to
2.5% to be applied to electric, water and sewer use
charges?

Impuesto al consumidor de servicios publicos.

cDebe Needles eliminar 2.5% de la cuota de franquicia actual
del 7.5% que la Ciudad de Needles cobra a la Autoridad de
Servicios Publicos de Needles y establecer en su lugar un
impuesto al consumidor de servicios publicos de hasta el
2.5% que se aplique a los cargos por uso de electricidad,
agua y drenaje?

YES / SI		*
NO /NO		-«

N 0026

N SB 012-014

MEASURE T
CITY OF NEEDLES

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE T

This Impartial Analysis for Measure T has been prepared by the City
Attorney pursuant to Section 9280 of the Elections Code of the State of
California.

Measure T proposes a 2.5% reduction in the franchise fee the City currently
charges the Needles Public Utility Authority (“NPUA”) from 7.5% to 5%. To offset this
2.5% reduction in the franchise fee, Measure T would impose a Utility Users Tax
(“UUT”) at a rate not to exceed 2.5%, which will be applied to electricity, water, and
sewer utility services. The UUT is a general tax and the revenue the UUT generates
will go to the City of Needles’ general fund for essential government services such as
police and fire, as well as parks and recreation, the aquatics park, the senior center,
the recreation center, the golf course, the animal shelter and other day to day general
City services.

The UUT would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and would be
collected by the utility services provider in accordance with the service provider’s
regular billing practices.

Measure T requires approval of a majority of voters. A “yes” vote for Measure
T will result in the NPUA franchise fees being lowered by 2.5% and a 2.5% UUT being
applied to electricity, water and sewer utility services. A “no” vote against Measure T
will result in Measure T failing.

The full text of the Ordinance is available at www.citvofneedles.com or may
be obtained by requesting a copy from the City Clerk by email at ndlsclerk@citlink.net
or by phone at (760)326-2113.

si Office of the City Attorney, City of Needles

PR-9020-1

N SB 012-035

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

This Argument in Favor of Measure T was submitted pursuant to Section 9282 of
the Elections Code of the State of California. It is the opinion of the author(s), and
has been printed exactly as submitted.

The purpose of the utility user tax proposal is to approve a continuation of the 2.5% fee
that was increased by City Council two years ago and, change the nomenclature to a
tax instead of a fee. The franchise fee was increased to close a budget shortfall 2
years ago with the assumption revenue shortfalls would be short lived.

Early 2012 the State Legislature eliminated all Redevelopment Agency revenue. So,
there is a need to continue the 2.5% fee to provide essential city services such as
police, fire, parks and recreation, road maintenance, etc. at current levels. The
ordinance states a utility user tax of UP TO 2.5 % will be applied.

Recently passed Proposition 26, states a fee is a tax, and the electorate has a vote on
any changes. Your City government has agreed a continuation of the 2.5% fee needs
voter approval, and to change the name of the 2.5% fee to a utility user tax. Your utility
rates will not change. A yes vote on this proposal is Status Quo! Current rates will be
adjusted to back out the 2.5% then a line item will be added to your bill showing the
utility user tax.

The revenue from continuation of this 2.5% will stay in Needles supporting our
community. The City Budget is Bare Bones - No Frills. VOTE YES ON MEASURE T -
THE CITY NEEDS YOUR SUPPORT.

Thank you

si Terry Campbell, Councilman
s/ Linda Kidd, Councilwoman

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T

No Argument Against Measure T was filed.

PR-9020-2

N SB 012-036

SUMMARY OF MEASURE T

Measure T proposes a 2.5% reduction in the franchise fee the City currently
charges the Needles Public Utility Authority (“NPUA”) from 7.5% to 5% AND would
impose a Utility Users Tax (“UUT”) at a rate not to exceed 2.5%, which will be applied
to electricity, water, and sewer utility services. The UUT is a general tax and the
revenue the UUT generates will go to the City of Needles’ general fund for essential
government services such as police and fire, as well as parks and recreation, the
aquatics park, the senior center, the recreation center, the golf course, the animal
shelter and other day to day general City services.

The UUT would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and would be
collected by the utility services provider in accordance with the service provider’s
regular billing practices.

The full text of the Ordinance is available at www.citvofneedles.com or may
be obtained by requesting a copy from the City Clerk by email at ndlsclerk@citlink.net
or by phone at (760)326-2113.

PR-9020-3

N SB 012-037

ORDINANCE NO. 545-AC

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
NEEDLES, CALIFORNIA ADDING CHAPTER 20A
“UTILITY USERS TAX” TO THE NEEDLES MUNICIPAL
CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF NEEDLES, CALIFORNIA DO HEREBY ORDAIN
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: Chapter 20A is hereby added to the Needles Municipal Code to read as
follows:

Chapter 20A. UTILITY USERS TAX

Sections:

20A.010	Purpose.
20A.020	Definitions.
20A.030	Electricity users tax.
20 A. 040	Collection of Tax From Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Electricity.
20A.050	Water users tax.
20A.060	Sewer users tax.
20A.070	Exemptions
20A.080	Duty to collect—Procedures.
20A.090	Filing Return and Payment.
20A.100	Collection of Penalties.
20A.110	Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.
20A.120	Administrative Remedy - Non-Paying Services Users.
20A.130	Actions to Collect.
20A.140	Additional Powers and Duties of Tax Administrator.
20A.150	Records.
20A.160	Refunds.
20A.170	Appeals.
20A.180	No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.
20A.190	Remedies Cumulative.
20A.200	Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

1

20A.210	Penalties.

20A.220 Future Amendment to Cited Statute.

20A.230	Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption, Remittance and

Expenditure.

Section 20A.010. Purpose. This Chapter is enacted solely to raise revenue for the general
governmental purposes of the City. All of the proceeds from the tax imposed by this Chapter
shall be placed in the City’s general fund.

Section 20A.020. Definitions. The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Chapter,
shall be construed as defined in this section.

A.	“Billing Address” shall mean the mailing address of the Service User where the
Service Supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

B.	“City” means the City of Needles.

C.	“City Manager” means the City Manager of the City, or his or her authorized
representative.

D.	“Cogenerator” shall mean any corporation or Person employing cogeneration (as
defined in Section 216.6 of the California Public Utilities Code) for producing power for the
generation of electricity for sale to others from a qualified cogeneration facility (as defined in the
federal Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 and regulations thereunder).

E.	“Month” means a calendar month.

F.	“Non-Utility Supplier” shall mean:

1.	a Service Supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution services to
all or a significant portion of the City, which generates electricity for sale to others, and shall
include, but is not limited to, any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility.
Cogenerator, municipal utility district, federal power marketing authority, electric rural
cooperative, or other supplier or seller of electricity;

2.	an electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator,
pool operator, or other electricity supplier other than a supplier of electric distribution services to
all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies electricity or supplemental services
to electricity users within the City; and

G.	“NPUA” means the Needles Public Utility Authority.

H.	“Person” shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust,
common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock
company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic, and

2

non-profit), municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the City or NPUA)
cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.

I.	“Service Address” means the residential street address or the business street
address of the Service User.

J.	“Service Supplier” shall mean any Person, including the City, that provides
electricity, water or sewer service to a user of such services within the City and remits a tax as
imposed by this Chapter, including its billing agent in the case of electric or water.

It. “Service User” shall mean a Person required to pay a tax imposed under the
provisions of this Chapter.

L.	“State” shall mean the State of California.

M.	“Tax Administrator” means the finance director of the City or his or her designee.
Section 20A.030. Electricity users tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every Person using electricity in the City. The
tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate as set by resolution of the City Council, not to
exceed the rate of two and a half percent (2.5%) of the charges made for such electricity, and for
any supplemental services or other associated activities directly related and/or necessary for the
provision of electricity to the end-user, which are provided by a Service Supplier or Non-Utility
Supplier to a Service User. The tax shall be collected from the Service User by the Service
Supplier or Non-Utility Supplier, or its billing agent.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components
and items that are: i) necessary or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service;
or, ii) currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for electric service
by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include,
but is not limited to, the following charges:

1.	energy charges;

2.	distribution and transmission charges;

3.	metering charges;

4.	stand-by, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation,
emergency, or other similar minimum charges for services;

5.	customer charges,	service	establishment or reestablishment charges,

demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange charges, independent system
operator (ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive transition charges (CTC), public
purpose program charges, nuclear decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts (bond
financing charges), franchise fee, franchise surcharge, annual and Monthly charges, and other
charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary to or common for the receipt, use and
enjoyment of electric service; and

3

6.	charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs, which are
mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission, or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item
basis on the customer billing.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the Service
User in exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision of such electricity.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the electricity Service
Suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of electric retail service that they
commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the
charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies
as a condition of providing such electric service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue
and disseminate to such electric Service Suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those
components and items which are: i) necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of
electric service; or, ii) currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate
for electric service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for
such components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (A) above.

E.	As used in this section, the term “using electrical energy” shall not be construed
to mean the storage of such energy by a Person in a battery owned or possessed by him or her for
use in a automobile or other machinery or device apart from the premises upon which the energy
was received; provided, however, that the term shall include the receiving of such energy for the
purpose of using it in the charging of batteries; nor shall the term include electricity used and
consumed by an electric public utility; nor shall the term include the mere receiving of such
energy by an electric public utility or governmental agency at a point within the City for resale;
or the use of such energy in the production or distribution of water by a public utility or a
governmental agency.

Section 20A,040. Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Electricity,

A.	Any Service User subject to the tax imposed by 0 which receives electricity
directly from a Non-Utility Supplier not under the jurisdiction of this ordinance, or which
otherwise is not having the full tax due on the use of electricity in the City that is directly billed
and collected by the Service Supplier or its billing agent, shall report said fact to the Tax
Administrator and shall remit the tax due directly to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30)
days of such use. In lieu of paying said actual tax, the Service User may, at its option, remit to
the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use an estimated amount of tax measured
by the tax billed in the previous Month, or upon the pattern payment of similar customers of the
Service Supplier using similar amounts of electricity, provided that the Service User shall submit
an adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each
calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any
subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

B.	The Tax Administrator may require said Service User to identify its Non-Utility
Supplier and provide, subject to audit, invoices, books of account, or other satisfactory evidence
documenting the quantity of electricity used and the cost or price thereof. If the Service User is

4

unable to provide such satisfactory evidence, or, if the administrative cost of calculating the tax,
in the opinion of the City, is excessive, the City may determine the tax by applying the tax rate to
the equivalent charges the Service User would have incurred if the electricity used had been
provided by the Service Supplier, which is the primary supplier of electricity.

Section 20A.05Q. Water users tax.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every Person using water in the City which is
transported and delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate as set by resolution of the City Council, not to exceed the rate of two and a
half percent (2.5%) of the charges made for such water and shall be collected from the Service
User by the water Service Supplier, or its billing agent.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components
and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water service;
or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for water service
by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include,
but is not limited to, the following charges:

1.	water commodity charges (potable and	non-potable);

2.	distribution or transmission charges;

3.	metering charges;

4.	customer charges, late charges, service	establishment or reestablishment

charges, franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and Monthly charges, and other charges,
fees and surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water
service; and,

5.	charges, fees, or surcharges for water services or programs, which are
mandated by a water district or a state or federal agency, whether or not such charges, fees, or
surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the Service
User in exchange for the water services.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the water Service
Suppliers in the City to identify the various unbundled billing components of water retail service
that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and
the charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by a water district or a state or
federal agency as a condition of providing such water service. The Tax Administrator,
thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such water Service Suppliers an administrative ruling
identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt,
use or enjoyment of water service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a
single or bundled rate for water service by a local distribution company to a class of retail

5

customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (A)
above.

E.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is
computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline
distribution system; and charges made by a municipal water department, public utility or a
county or municipal water district for water used and consumed by such department, utility or
district in the conduct of the business of such department, utility or district.

F.	The tax on water service imposed by this section shall be collected from the
Service User by the water Service Supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in
one (1) Month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following Month.

Section 20A.060. Sewer user tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every Person in the City using sewer services
provided by the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate as set by resolution of
the City Council, not to exceed the rate of two and a half percent (2.5%) of the charges made for
such sewer services at one location and shall be paid by the Person paying for such sewer
services.

B.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the Service User by the
City. If applicable, the amount of tax collected in one (1) Month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th)
day of the following Month.

C.	The phrase “one location” as used in subsection (A) shall mean one or more
contiguous sites for which the Service User receives one or more utility billings.

Section 20A.070. Exemptions. The taxes imposed by this Chapter shall not apply to:

A.	Constitutional and Statutory Exemptions.

1.	Any Person or Service User if imposition of such tax upon that Person or
Service User would be in violation of a federal or state statute or the Constitution of the United
States or the Constitution of the State of California, or otherwise exempted by this Chapter;

2.	The City; and

3.	NPUA.

Section 20A.080. Duty to collect—Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this Chapter shall be performed as
follows:

A.	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the time and along with the
charges made in accordance with the regular billing practices of the Service Supplier. Where the

6

amount paid-by a Service User to a Service Supplier is less than the full amount of the charge
and tax which has accrued for the billing period, such amount and any subsequent payments by a
Service User may be applied to the utility service charge first until such charge has been fully
satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be applied to the taxes due, except in those cases where a
Service User pays the full amount of the charges but notifies the Service Supplier of his or her
refusal to pay the tax imposed on the charges.

B.	The duty to collect tax from a Service User shall commence with the beginning of
the first full regular billing period applicable to the Service User where all charges normally
included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where a Person
receives more than one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to
collect shall arise separately for each billing.

C.	Bundling Rule. If any nontaxable charges are bundled with and not separately
stated from taxable service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a Service Supplier, the
combined charge is subject to tax unless the Service Supplier identifies, by reasonable and
verifiable standards, the portions of the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through
the Service Supplier’s books and records kept in the regular course of business, and in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax
purposes. The Service Supplier has the burden of proving the proper apportionment of taxable
and non-taxable charges. If the Service Supplier offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable
services, and the charges are separately stated, then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the
taxable and non-taxable services shall be based on its books and records kept in the regular
course of business and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and not
created and maintained for tax purposes. The Service Supplier has the burden of proving the
proper valuation of the taxable and non-taxable services.

Section 20A.090. Filing Return and Payment.

Each Person required by this Chapter to remit a tax shall file a return to the Tax Administrator,
on forms approved by the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. The full amount of the
tax collected shall be included with the return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator is authorized to require such additional information as he/she deems necessary to
determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter.
Returns are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and
Tax Code Section 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing
returns as confidential information exempt from disclosure provisions of the Public Records Act.

Section 20A. 100. Collection Penalties.

A.	Taxes collected from a Service User, or self-collected by a Service User subject to
0, are delinquent if not received by the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the
due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the first regular working day following the weekend or legal holiday.
A direct deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically
exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by a Service Supplier in satisfaction of its
obligations under this subsection shall be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or

7

before the due date, and the transfer settles into the City’s account on or before the following
business day.

B.	If a Service Supplier, or a Service User subject to 0, fails to remit any tax
collected, on or before the due date, said Person shall pay a penalty for such delinquencies at tire
rate as set forth by resolution of the City Council of the total tax that is delinquent in the
remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate as set forth by resolution of the City Council, on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent, until paid.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon
Persons required to collect and/or remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter for fraud
or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate as set forth by resolution of the City
Council of the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by
the Tax Administrator.

D.	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is
accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be
paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, modify the due dates of this Chapter to be consistent with any uniform standards or
procedures that are mutually agreed upon by UUT public agencies, or otherwise legally
established, to create a UUT central payment location or mechanism.

Section 20A. 110. Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she
determines that any Person required to collect or self-collect taxes pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter has failed to collect and remit the proper amount of tax by improperly or failing to
apply the tax to one or more taxable services or charges.

B.	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the
Person required to pay or remit the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes
owed, plus interest at the rate as set forth by resolution of the City Council, on the amount of the
tax from the date on which the tax should have been received by the City. Within fourteen (14)
calendar days after the date of service of such notice, the Person may request in writing to the
Tax Administrator for a hearing on the matter. If the Person fails to request a hearing within the
prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final
assessment, and shall immediately be due and owing to the City.

C.	If the Person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to
be set for hearing, which shall be held within thirty (30) days after receipt of the written request
for hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator
to such Person at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator
desires said Person to produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate the
records requested to be produced.

8

D.	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant
testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the discretion of the
Tax Administrator, the hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing
the presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of
the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessment), thereafter,
by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and shall mail a
copy of such final assessment to Person owing the tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator
may be appealed pursuant to 0. Filing an application pursuant to 0 and appeal to the City
Manager pursuant to 0 is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

E.	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of receipt of the notice
of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be at the rate as set forth by resolution of
the City Council on the total amount of the assessment, along with interest at the rate as set forth
by resolution of the City Council, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date
of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the City
seeking payment of a tax assessed under this 0 shall commence from the date of delinquency as
provided in this subsection E.

F.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and
shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established
by a proof of mailing.

Section 20A. 120. Administrative Remedy - Non-Paving Service Users.

A.	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a Service User has deliberately
withheld the amount of the tax owed by the Service User from the amounts remitted to a Person
required to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the
City, he or she may relieve such Person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this
Chapter from certain named Service Users for specific billing periods. Whenever the Service
User has failed to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, the
Service Supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes due. The Service Supplier
shall provide the City with the names and Service Addresses of such Service Users and the
amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of this Chapter.

B.	In addition to the tax owed, the Service User shall pay a delinquency penalty at
the rate as set forth by resolution of the City Council of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay
interest at the rate as set forth by resolution of the City Council, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying Service User that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and
demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice shall be served on
the Service User by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the Service User at the Billing Address; or, should the Service
User have a change of address, to his or her last known address.

D.	If the Service User fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty
(30) clays from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Administrator may
impose an additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the total tax that is owed.

Section 20A.130. Actions to collect. Any tax required to be paid by a Service User under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the Service User to the City. Any
such tax collected from a Service User which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator
shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the Person required to collect and remit and shall no
longer be a debt of the Service User. Any Person owing money to the City under the provisions
of this Chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of
such amount, including penalties and interest as provided for in this Chapter, along with any
collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the Person’s noncompliance with this Chapter,
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees and court costs.

Section 20A. 140. Additional Powers and Duties of Tax Administrator.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this Chapter.

B.	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations not
inconsistent with provisions of this Chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying
out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of
such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator’s office.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of
this Chapter and thereby: (a) conform to the billing procedures of a particular Service Supplier
(or Service User subject to 0) so long as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in
conformance with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter; or, (b) to avoid a hardship
where the administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A
copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator’s office, and are voidable
by the Tax Administrator or the City at any time.

D.	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with
the requirements of this Chapter, of any Person required to collect and/or remit a tax pursuant to
this Chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said Person of the initiation of an audit in
writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period of review shall
not exceed a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by
said Person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax Administrator
may make a deficiency determination pursuant to 0 for all taxes, penalties and interest owed and
not paid, as evidenced by information provided by such Person to the Tax Administrator. If said
Person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax Administrator to
verify compliance with this Chapter, the Tax Administrator is authorized to make a reasonable
estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption
of correctness.

E.	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax
Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to this Chapter for

10

a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the time for filing the required
statement has not already passed when the request is received. No penalty for delinquent
payment shall accrue by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at
the rate as set forth by resolution of the City Council.

F.	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any Person who asserts a
right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Chapter.

G.	Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapter to the contrary, the Tax
Administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a Person required to collect
and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by this Chapter if the non-collection occurred
in good faith. In determining whether the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax
Administrator shall take into consideration industry practice or other precedence.

Section 20A. 150. Records.

A.	It shall be the duty of every Person required to collect and/or remit to the City any
tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have been liable
for the collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax
Administrator, or the Tax Administrator’s designated representative, shall have the right to
inspect at a reasonable time.

B.	The City may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a Person to deliver, to
the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the Tax Administrator to
establish compliance with this Chapter, including the delivery of records in a common electronic
format on readily available media if such records are kept electronically by the Person in the
usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to
the Tax Administrator on or before the due date provided in the administrative subpoena, such
Person may provide access to such records outside the City on or before the due date, provided
that such Person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City
to inspect those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but
excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those Persons designated by the City to conduct
the inspection.

C.	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement
approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer information pursuant to
California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7. The Tax Administrator, or the
Tax Administrator’s designated representative, may request from a Person providing
transportation services of electricity to Service Users within the City a list of the names and
Service Addresses, and other pertinent information, of its transportation customers within the
City pursuant to Section 6354(e) of the California Public Utilities Code.

D.	If a Service Supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax, the Service Supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator the name,
address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized
by the Service Supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of
the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the

11

possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/or
remittance of such tax to the City.

E.	If any Person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably denies the
Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator’s designated representative, access to such records,
or fails to produce the information requested in an administrative subpoena within the time
specified, then the Tax Administrator may impose a penalty of $500 on such Person for each day
following: i) the initial date that the Person refuses to provide such access; or ii) the due date for
production of records as set forth in the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in
addition to any other penalty imposed under this Chapter.

Section 20A.160. Refunds. Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator
under this Chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this section:

A.	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid, paid more than
once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under
this Chapter, provided that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor or administrator has submitted a written
claim, under penalty of perjury, to the Tax Collector. The period for filing a claim for refund
shall be one year from the time the tax was paid or erroneously or illegally collected; provided
however, that in no event shall the period to file such claim expire prior to the shortest period
allowable for filing a tax refund claim under Title 1, Division 3.6, Part 3, Section 911.2 of the
California Government Code. Such claim must clearly establish claimant’s right to the refund by
written records showing entitlement thereto, and must clearly set forth the facts and legal
theories under which the claimant believes he or she has right to a refund. Nothing herein shall
permit the filing of a refund claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers. Where the amount
of any individual refund claim is in excess of the amount set by separate resolution of the City
Council relating to the settlement of general liability claims against the City by the Tax
Administrator, City Council approval shall be required.

B.	The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government Code Section 935 is a
prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to this section
shall be subject to the provisions of Government Code Sections 945.6 and 946.

C.	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (A) of this section, a Service
Supplier that has collected any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed by this
Chapter and actually due from a Service User (whether due to overpayment or erroneous or
illegal collection of said tax), may refund such amount to the Service User, or credit to charges
subsequently payable by the Service User to the Service Supplier, and claim credit for such
overpayment against the amount of tax which is due upon any other Monthly returns to the Tax
Administrator, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from the
date of overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. The Tax Administrator shall
determine the validity of the Service User’s claim of credit, and the underlying basis for such
claim.

12

D.	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (A) of this section, in the
event that a Service Supplier, or a Person required to self-impose a tax imposed by this Chapter,
remits a tax to the City in excess of the amount of tax imposed by this Chapter, said Service
Supplier, or a Person required to self-impose a tax imposed by this Chapter, may claim credit for
such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due upon any other Monthly returns to the
Tax Administrator, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from
the date of overpayment of said tax, and provided that the Finance Director shall first determine
the validity of the Service User’s claim of credit, and the underlying basis for such claim.

Section 20A. 170. Appeals.

A.	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating
to a refund pursuant to 0), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the
Tax Administrator. Any Person aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a
refund pursuant to 0), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator, shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of this section.
Compliance with this section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. Nothing herein shall
permit the filing of a claim or action on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

B.	If any Person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a
refund pursuant to 0), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator; he or she may appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the
City Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the decision, deficiency determination,
assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator which aggrieved the Service User
or Service Supplier.

C.	The matter shall be set for hearing no more than thirty (30) days from the receipt
of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time and place of the hearing, as
well as any relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing
may be continued from time to time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the
appealing party, the Tax Administrator, the City Manager, and any other interested Person may
present such relevant evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination from which
the appeal is taken.

D.	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s files, the
City Manager shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or reversing the
determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within fourteen (14)
days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The notice
shall specify that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1094.6. If the City Manager fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the fourteen
(14) day period, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the City Manager on the
fourteenth (14th) day.

E.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and
shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established
by a proof of mailing.

13

Section 20A.180. No Iniunction/Writ of Mandate. No injunction or writ of mandate or other
legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this
City or against any officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and/or remitted.

Section 20A.190. Remedies Cumulative. All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Chapter
or which are available under any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the
California False Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair
Practices Act (Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative. The use of
one or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of this Chapter.

Section 20A.200. Notice of Changes to Ordinance. If a tax under this Chapter is added,
repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the
notice requirements of California Public Utilities Code Section 799. Prior to the effective date of
the ordinance change, the Service Supplier shall provide the Tax Administrator with a copy of
any written procedures describing the information that the Service Supplier needs to implement
the ordinance change. If the Service Supplier fails to provide such written instructions, the Tax
Administrator, or his or her agent, shall send, by first class mail, a copy of the ordinance change
to all collectors and remitters of the City’s utility users taxes according to the latest payment
records of the Tax Administrator.

Section 20A.210. Penalties. Any Person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, or an infraction at the discretion of the City Attorney.

Section 20A.220. Future Amendment to Cited Statute. Unless specifically provided otherwise,
any reference to a state or federal statute in this Chapter shall mean such statute as it may be
amended from time to time.

Section 20A.230. Independent Audit of Tax Collection. Exemption. Remittance, and
Expenditure. The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Chapter have been
properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter, and
properly expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual verification shall be
performed by a qualified independent third party and the review shall employ reasonable, cost-
effective steps to assure compliance, including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall
not be required of tax remitters where the cost of the verification may exceed the tax revenues to
be reviewed.

SECTION 2. After its adoption by the voters, this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect ten
(10) days after the vote is declared by the legislative body, pursuant to the provisions of
Elections Code section 9217 and as provided by law. Upon this Ordinance becoming effective,
the current 7.5% franchise fee the City charges to the NPUA shall be reduced and set at 5% of
the gross annual receipts of the NPUA arising from the use, operation, or possession of the
franchise and an additional two percent (2%) of the gross annual receipts derived from the
transmission of electrical power for use outside of the NPUA service territory. Thereafter, the
City may, from time to time, change the franchise fee it charges to the NPUA, provided the
franchise fee does not exceed 5% of the gross annual receipts of the NPUA arising from the use,
operation, or possession of the franchise and an additional two percent (2%) of the gross annual

14

receipts derived from the transmission of electrical power for use outside of the NPUA service
territory.

SECTION 3. Chapter 20A of the Needles Municipal Code may be amended by the City
Council of the City of Needles without a vote of the people. However, as required by Article
XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment that would
increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance. The people of the City of Needles
affirm that the following actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

1.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set
by this Ordinance, if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of or suspend collection of all
or a portion of the tax;

2.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any
definition applicable to the tax, as long as the interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to
some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this Ordinance;

3.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the City had,
for some prior of time, failed to collect the tax.

SECTION 4. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to unconstitutional, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this Chapter or any part thereof. The
voters of the City of Needles hereby declare that they would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrases be
declared unconstitutional.

SECTION 5. Effective Date. If adopted by the voters at the November 6, 2012 election,
this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the
legislative body, pursuant to the provisions of Elections Code sections 9217 and 15400 and as
provided by law.

SECTION 6. The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this ordinance and cause it,
or a summary of it, to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation printed and
published within the City of Needles, and shall post a certified copy of this Ordinance, including
the vote for and against the same, in the Office of the City Clerk in accordance with Government
Code section 36933.

APPROVED FOR INTROUDCTION at a regular city council meeting held this 24th
day of July, 2012, by the following vote:

15

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS	LOPEZ,	KIDD,	FRAZIER,	CAMPBELL	AND	MURCH

NOES:	none

ABSENT:' councilmember gudmundson

ABSTAIN:	N0NE

ATTEST:

City Clerk Dale Tories, CMC

Mayor Edwarc

16

CITY OF NEEDLES

817 Third Street • Needles, California 92363
(760) 326-2113	• FAX (760) 326-6765

Mayor Edward Paget, M.D.
Vice Mayor Terry Campbell
Councilmember Tony Frazier
Councilmember Jim Lopez
Councilmember Shawn Gudmundson
Councilmember Linda J. Kidd
Councilmember Tom Darcy
City Manager David G. Brownlee

CERTIFICATION

I, Dale Jones, City Clerk of the City of Needles, California, do
hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of
Ordinance Number 545-AC that was approved by the voters at
the November 6, 2012 Municipal Election

Dale Jones, CMC, City Clerk

(SEAL)

Date:

December 12, 2012