VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

WEST SONOMA COUNTY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE K

To provide funds to keep the school’s libraries open;

K maintain and improve the arts, shop, culinary, technology,
and other career education classes, maintain and
improve college prep courses; and maintain school
counseling; shall the West Sonoma County Union High School
District be authorized to levy $48.00 per parcel annually for eight
years with specific accountability requirements, have no funds for
administrators’ salaries, provide a senior citizens' exemption and
have all funds stay local and not be taken by the State?

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

The West Sonoma County Union High School District has called an election on a
special tax measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter ap-
proval before a school district can impose a special tax.

The District is proposing to levy a special tax of $48 per year on each parcel of tax-
able real property in the District, commencing on July 1,2013. The tax would be
levied for eight years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special account and could only be used
for the purposes set out in the measure, which Include keeping the schools' librar-
ies open, maintaining student counseling services, and maintaining and improving
shop, culinary, technology, and other career education classes, art, music, and
drama classes, and the high school’s college prep courses.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Our local schools are the most important asset in our community and should be our
number one priority. From preparing for college and career to developing productive
citizens, quality schools make a difference. However, because the State continues
to reduce funding for public education, we need to do more to protect and maintain
the quality of education. The West Sonoma County Union High School District re-
lies on a local parcel tax for part of its funding. Since 1998, funds raised by this local
tax have been used to support instructional opportunities including counseling and
library services, music, fine arts, drama, science equipment, and technology.

Our students need your Yes vote on Measure K! if successful, Measure K will
continue to provide a stable source of local funds io offset the uncertainty of State
funding. With the kind of support provided by funds from Measure K, our students
can become well-rounded, contributing members of the community. Without it,
their educational experience will be compromised.

If passed, Measure K will keep school libraries open; maintain and improve shop,
art, music, drama, culinary, technology, and other career education classes; main-
tain and improve college prep courses; and maintain student counseling services.

Measure K makes financial sense and protects taxpayers. By law, ail parcel tax
funds must be spent locally and cannot be taken by the State. Measure K provides
for an exemption for any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or
older. Also, spending will be reviewed annually by an independent auditor and
reported to the public.

Measure K maintains academic programs, helps improve the education of local
students, and maintains the quality of our community. That’s something we can all
support. Please join us and vote Yes on Measure K!

Each year that tax funds remain unspent, the District’s chief fiscal officer will pre-
pare and present a report to the Board of Trustees stating (1) the amount of tax
funds received and expended during the prior year, and (2) the status of any pro-
jects or description of any programs funded by the tax. The report must be filed by
December 31 of each year.

si James Stephen Walton
Engineer/Scientist/Entrepreneur

si Frank Anderson
Grape Grower/Retired Educator

s/Jeanne Bassett Fernandes
Sebastopol Resident

si Diana Gardner Rich
Youth and Community Volunteer

The tax would be applied to each unit of real properly in the District that receives a
separate biii for property taxes. Multiple parcels that are contiguous and are part of
one economic unit under the same name and ownership and that do not receive
separate tax bills would be charged as one parcel. Parcels which are exempt from
property tax, or on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from
this tax. The measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned
and occupied by (1) a person who is 65 years of age or older or (2) a person who re-
ceives Supplemental Security Income fora disability, regardless of age. The taxon
parcels classified as timeshare properties will be charged to owners in proportion
to the percentage of the year owned.

s/ Elaine Carlson
El Molino Booster

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE K

If two-thirds of the voters in the West Sonoma County Union High School District
who vote on this measure vote '‘yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will
be levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes.

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By: si Steven S. Shupe

Deputy County Counsel

51

9378

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K
EXHIBIT A

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to aid in
maintaining public education in our schools, the West Sonoma County Union High
School District proposes to levy and collect a qualified special parcel tax as de-
scribed below (see "SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES" below), and to implement
accountability measures to ensure that funds are used to:

•	Keep the schools’ libraries open

•	Maintain and improve shop, culinary, technology, and other career education

classes

•	Maintain and improve art, music and drama classes

•	Maintain and improve the high school’s college prep courses; and

•	Maintain student counseling services

The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes listed
above, unless the Board of Trustees determines in any given year that changes in
student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding
make doing so unfeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Board of Trustees will
not fund any program or reduction other than those listed above from the proceeds
of the special parcel taxes.

SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Special Tax Generally. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the spe-
cial tax of $48.00 per parcel shall be levied and collected for a period of eight (8)
years, commencing July 1,2013, and be collected by the Sonoma County Tax Collector
at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as
general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.

Definition of Parcel A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the Sonoma County Tax Collector. However, with
respect to any parcel that is classified by the Sonoma County Assessor as a
timeshare property, for the purposes of levying and collecting the special tax
against such parcels, to the extent permitted by law such levy shall be set in
amount proportional to the percentage of the year owned by said timeshare.

Exemptions, The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the qualified
special tax.

■ Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be ex-
empt from property taxes shall also be exempt from the parcel tax.

' Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to persons
who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence a
parcel subject to the parcel tax,

• Supplemental Security Income Exemption. An exemption shall be avail-
able to persons who receive Supplemental Security Income ("SSI”) for a
disability regardless of age, and own and occupy as a principal resi-
dence a parcel subject to the parcel tax.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the
levy and collection of the special tax and exemptions, and any additional procedures
established by the Board of Trustees, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for
claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special
parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the
County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as nec-
essary. The District’s Board of Trustees shall adopt such additional or supplemental
procedures as it deems necessary or convenient for the administration of the quali-
fied special tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Legally Required Accountability Measures. In accordance with the require-
ments of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following

accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special parcel taxes lev-
ied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special parcel
tax shall be only those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the special
parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a
separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the special
parcel taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made by
the District’s chief fiscal officer to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i)
the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes
and (ii) the status of any projects, programs, or purposes required or authorized to
be funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as identified above.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District
because of the District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are
reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special
parcel taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or
Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by ap-
proving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause
of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters
would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision
hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

9378