193

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General Election

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet

On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

PAGE

CITY

POMONA CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

, , MEASURE U POMONA CITY CHARTER MEASURE: Shall the Charter of II the City of Pomona be amended as proposed by the Charter Review ^ Commission, regarding setting Council district boundaries, Mayoral election as a stand alone election, “instant runoff” Councilmember elections, Council vacancy procedures, increasing contributions limits to Councilmembers, counsel for Charter Commission, City budget and Capital Improvement Program app to the Youth and Family Master Plan, and establishing violations of the Charter at other changes?	158	YES^O  159	no^O  jroviding staff and legal ropriations, commitment misdemeanors, among
. . MEASURE V POMONA TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX INCREASE: To  y ensure funding for essential general city services including police services, " fire protection, street and park maintenance, business development, and park and recreation services, shall an ordinance be adopted to increase the tax charged only to persons who occupy hotels, as defined by Pomona City Code S known as the Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT), from ten percent (10%) to twelve p	162	YES-*0  163	mo-*o  ection 50-Bl, otherwise srcent (12%)?
... MEASURE W POMONA REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX INCREASE: To  yll ensure funding for essential general city services including police services, ** fire protection, street and park maintenance, business development, and park and recreation services, shall an ordinance be adopted to increase the tax charged when real property in the city is sold or transferred, otherwise known as th Tax, from $1.10 per $500 of property value at the time of sale to $2.20?	165	yes-*o  166	no-*o  e Heal Property transfer
v MEASURE X SAVE OUR POMONA PUBLIC LIBRARY: To provide revenue  Y dedicated to the City of Pomona Library services, and operation of the ** Library no fewer than 38 hours per week, shall the City of Pomona ordinance adopting a special parcel tax of $38.00/parcel and/or residential unit, providing for annual adjustments commencing July 1, 2013, be approved by the vc	168	YES-*o  169	no-HD  ters?

END OF BALLOT

07-007E

N LA 193-012

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE X

Save Our Pomona Public Library

The Pomona Public Library (the “Library”) opened in 1887, and has operated
from its current location in Pomona Civic Center since 1965. As part of the City’s
2012-13 Fiscal Year adopted budget, the cost to operate the Library in 2012-13 is
estimated at $1.1 million. This amount provides for 26 hours of weekly service
from July 1 through August 15 and 20 hours of weekly service through the end of
the fiscal year.

Due to the ongoing recession and resulting decreases to the City’s general fund,
the City estimates an early projected future budget deficit of approximately $1.5
million in Fiscal Year 2013-14. As a result, the City’s general fund will not be
able to fund library services in future fiscal years and the Library will likely close
in July 2013 unless other funding sources are found.

Measure “X” would impose a “Special Library Parcel Tax” on each taxable
parcel of property, improved or unimproved, within the boundaries of the City,
at a rate of $38.00 per parcel and/or residential unit beginning in the 2013-14
Fiscal Year. The tax is applied on a uniform basis to all parcels, regardless of
whether such parcels are commercial, residential or other uses, with the
exception of governmental or exempted uses. If adopted, the measure would
result in estimated revenues of $1,634,000.00 dedicated solely to library services.

If adopted, library services must be offered at least 38 hours per week over at
least five (5) days per week. “Library services” includes operating and
maintaining equipment, library personnel salaries, and any incidental expenses
incurred in the administration of the tax. If the City reduces library hours below
38 hours per week, the City may not levy the special parcel tax for the following
year.

If Measure “X” is adopted, the tax revenues collected must be kept in a separate
fund from the City’s general fund, any may not be used for any other purpose.
The measure also requires an independent auditor prepare a report and present
such report to the City Council each year by December 31.

In order to be adopted, the measure must be approved by two-thirds (2/3s) of the
voters. If approved, the special parcel tax will take effect July 1, 2013. Beginning
on July 1, 2014, the $38.00 parcel tax rate may be adjusted annually for inflation,
according to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) adjustment for each year, but shall
not exceed a five percent (5%) adjustment and no less than zero percent (0%)
adjustment for any single year. The measure also proposes an increase to the
City’s appropriations limit pursuant to state law.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905402-1

N LA 193-061

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE X (Continued)

A “Yes” vote on Measure “X” supports the Special Library Parcel Tax in the
amount of $38.00 per parcel and/or residential unit. A “No” vote on Measure “X”
will not approve the Special Library Parcel Tax, and will likely result in the
closure of the Library effective July 2013 unless other funding sources are found.

ARNOLD M. ALVAREZ-GLASMAN
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “X.” If you desire a
copy of the measure, please call the City of Pomona City Clerk’s Office at
(909) 620-2341 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

PR-905402-2

N LA 193-062

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE X

Please save our Pomona Public Library!

Passage of Measure X would provide a sustained source of funding for our
beloved public library - for only 10 cents per day!

Our Pomona Public Library is more than an information and education resource;
it serves as a community center, discussion forum, and provides programs to all
residents - from preschoolers to our senior citizens. Founded in 1887, it houses
an extensive collection of historic items and is truly a source of pride to the
residents of our great city.

The library serves as a fundamental resource to support community educational
needs including: homework assistance, adults pursuing educational and career
goals, and teachers accessing professional materials for lesson planning. Free
computer internet access for education research is central to the library’s
mission.

As a result of severe state and city budget cuts, our Pomona Public Library is
currently open only 20 hours per week and has been threatened with complete
closure.

Only thirty-eight dollars per household per year will insure that the library is
open for a minimum of 38 hours per week. Measure X funds are restricted for
Pomona Public Library services only, and are subject to independent annual
audits.

The Pomona Public Library is the pulse and heart of our community. A yes vote
on Measure X will breathe new life into this essential resource—a resource
worthy of saving.

We respectfully ask for your yes vote on Measure X.

CRISTINA N. CARRIZOSA
Council Member

PAULA LANTZ
Council Member

DIANA E. BUTCHER
President, Pomona Public Library
Board of Trustees

FRANK GARCIA

Pomona Chamber of Commerce

MICKEY D. GALLIVAN
President, Historical Society of Pomona
Valley Board of Directors

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-905402-3

N LA 193-063