241

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General Election

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet
On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

PAGE

COUNTY MEASURES

B Shall an ordinance be adopted requiring producers of adult films to obtain 132 YES-K3

a County public health permit, to require adult film performers to use--------------------------------

condoms while engaged in sex acts, to provide proof of blood borne 133	no-*o

pathogen training course, to post permit and notices to performers, and making------------------------------

violations of the ordinance subject to civil fines and criminal charges?

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

J Accelerating Traffic Relief, Job Creation. To advance Los Angeles 136	yes-*o

County’s traffic relief, economic/job growth by accelerating light rail/-----------------------------

subway construction and airport connections, within five years, not 137	no-*o

twenty; funding countywide freeway, bridge, safety and traffic flow----------------------------------------

improvements; fixing potholes; keeping senior, student, disabled fares low; Shall Los Angeles County's
voter-approved one-half cent traffic relief sales tax continue without increase for another 30 years or until
voters decide to end it, with independent audits and keeping funds local?

SCHOOL

CERRITOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

142

YES-*Q

G CERRITOS COLLEGE JOB TRAINING AND COLLEGE TRANSFER
MEASURE. To prepare local Cerritos College students for high-skilled jobs
and 4-year universities by updating classrooms, technology, math, ,j.«	NO■*("")

science and computer labs, upgrading job-training facilities, providing classrooms	wu	^

and labs to accommodate growing demand, replacing leaky roofs, aging and unsafe buildings, facilities/
equipment, and acquiring, constructing, repairing buildings, classrooms, sites/facilities/equipment, shall
Cerritos Community College District issue $350,000,000 in bonds, at legal rates, with citizen oversight, and
no money for Sacramento, administrators' salaries or employee pensions?

CITY

LA MIRADA CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

I To preserve our quality of life and maintain local, city services, 148 YES-*o

including: neighborhood police patrols/911 response times; crime/-------------------------------------------

gang prevention programs; repair potholes/keep streets from falling 149	no«*G

into disrepair; senior services/facilities; after-school programs for children/teens;-----------------------------

and other general city services, shall the City of La Mirada enact a one cent sales tax, for 5 years, that
cannot be taken by Sacramento, with citizens’ oversight, annual independent audits, with all funds spent only
in La Mirada?

END OF BALLOT

06-039E

N LA 241-011

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

The City Council of the City of La Mirada has placed Measure I on the ballot to
ask the voters whether or not to approve an ordinance that would enact a
temporary one percent (1%) transactions and use tax within the City. This would
be a general tax and the proceeds may be used for any municipal purpose
including addressing the City’s current declared fiscal emergency by maintaining
current levels of municipal services in spite of financial shortfalls due to
economic conditions. This measure will automatically terminate after five (5)
years. The measure requires appointment of a Citizens Oversight Committee to
review and report on the revenue and expenditure of the tax proceeds. Annual
independent audits must be conducted to account for the tax revenues received
and expenditures made, and those audits will be provided to the Citizens
Oversight Committee for review.

There is currently a one percent (1%) local sales and use tax which is levied on
the sale or use of tangible personal property, collected at the time of transaction,
and remitted to the State Board of Equalization for administration. The current
total tax on retail sales in La Mirada is 8.75 percent (8.75%). If this measure is
adopted, the total sales tax rate will increase to 9.75 percent (9.75%).

Exemptions and exclusions from application of the proposed tax include the
amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State or county, as well as various
other exemptions specified in the Revenue and Taxation Code.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the enactment of an ordinance establishing the
one percent (1%) transactions and use tax rate, with annual audits and Citizens
Oversight Committee review, subject to specified exemptions. A “No” vote is a
vote against the ordinance. This measure will be approved if it receives a simple
majority of “Yes” votes.

Dated: August 20, 2012

JAMES L. MARKMAN

City Attorney

City of La Mirada

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure I. If you desire a copy
of the measure, please contact the City Clerk’s Office at (562) 943-0131 and a
copy will be mailed to you at no cost to you, or you may access the text from the
internet at www.citvoflamirada.org.

PR-905122-1

N LA 241-044

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I

Tired of Sacramento taking our money? Do something about it!

Vote YES on I to keep our funds local, and maintain our La Mirada
services - none of it can be taken by Sacramento.

Sacramento takeaways and declining revenues have forced La Mirada to cut
millions of dollars in spending, severely impacting the important services we all
rely on: public safety and city street/pothole repair.

La Mirada currently has the lowest crime rate in the region - we need to keep it
that way! YES on I maintains current police patrols to keep La Mirada citizens
safe.

Vote YES on I to protect your services:

YES on I maintains neighborhood police patrols and rapid police response times

YES on I maintains crime and gang prevention programs

YES on I maintains and repairs neighborhood streets, roads, and potholes.

YES on I maintains after-school programs for children and teens

Measure I requires independent citizen oversight, mandatory financial audits,
and yearly reports to the community ensuring all funds are spent as promised.
Measure I is legally required to end in 5 years unless extended by voters.

With YES on I residents, businesses, and visitors from outside La Mirada pay
their fair share to fund city services and maintain city streets and roads - the
responsibility doesn’t fall solely on homeowners.

An independent Citizens Task Force studied the issues and recommended a local
measure to protect our local control of local funds for local needs. Following
input from hundreds of La Mirada residents, the Task Force believes the
community has a responsibility to address these priorities.

YES on I requires that all funds be used locally. No money can be taken by

Sacramento.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905122-2

N LA 241-045

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE i (Continued)

Join police officers, firefighters, community leaders, and local business leaders in
voting YES on i - give La Mirada local control over local funds for local needs!

GABRIEL P. GARCIA
Mayor

STEVE JONES
Councilmember

RICHARD J. ESTRADA
Police Officer

MICHAEL C. GARCIA
Firefighter

STEVE KEITHLY
Businessman

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-905122-3

N LA 241-046