League of Women Voters of California Education Fund

SUPPORT
SMART VOTER

El Dorado County, CA	November	6,	2012	Election

Measure L

Special Tax for Library System
County Service Area 10 Library

Parcel Tax - 2/3 Approval Required
37745 / 45.04% Yes votes.46050 / 54.96% No votes

See Also: Index of all Measures

Results as of Nov 21 5:29pm, 100.0% of Precincts Reporting (157/157)
75.7% Voter Turnout (83795/110634)

Information shown below: Impartial Analysis I Arguments I Full Text

To maintain library services, shall El Dorado County levy a
special tax within CSA10, commencing in fiscal year 201312014,
and expiring after 15 years, at the following rates (with annual
increases up to 3%): base tax of $17.58 per parcel, 80% of the
base tax per multi-family residential dwelling unit, 50% of the
base tax per mobilehome for parcels containing mobilehome
parks, 50% of the base tax for unimproved parcels, and $1.00
per time share?

Impartial Analysis from Louis B. Green, County

Counsel

Currently, property owners in several areas of the County pay
voter approved taxes or assessment fees to support public library
services and facilities. Those areas are Cameron Park (including
Shingle Springs and Rescue) (Zone D of County Service Area No.
10), El Dorado Hills (including Latrobe) (Zone E), the South Lake
Tahoe Basin (Zone F) and Georgetown (including surrounding
areas of Garden Valley, Kelsey, Greenwood, Quintette and
Volcanoville) (Zone G). Those taxes and fees range from $17.58
to $25.00 per parcel (or per dwelling unit in Cameron Park)
depending upon the area. Property owners in the remainder of the
County do not pay such taxes or fees.

Measure L, if adopted by a two-thirds vote, would impose a
uniform countywide special tax dedicated solely to the support of
public library services and facilities beginning in fiscal year
2013/2014. This tax would replace the existing taxes or fees in
Cameron Park, El Dorado Hills, South Lake Tahoe and
Georgetown areas, which taxes and fees would no longer be
collected. The base tax would be $17.58 per parcel of property
(residential and non-residential) per year. The base tax would be

This election is archived. Any

links to sources outside of

Smart Voter may no longer be

active. No further links will be

added to this page.

Links to sources outside of Smart Voter
are provided for information only and
do not imply endorsement.







adjusted for certain types of uses as follows: vacant land - 50% of
the base tax per parcel; multi-family residential units (more than
one unit on a parcel) - 80% of the base tax multiplied by the
number of units on the property; mobile home parks - 50% of the
base tax multiplied by the number of mobilehomes on the parcel;
timeshares - $1.00 per timeshare interest. Churches, cemeteries,
and schools are exempt from the tax. The tax is subject to an
annual cost of living increase based on the Consumer Price Index,
which shall not exceed 3% per year, but in no event shall the base
tax exceed $25.00 per parcel.

The tax imposed by Measure L shall be imposed for a period of
fifteen (15) years, at the end of which time the special tax shall
cease to be imposed. The special tax imposed by Measure L shall
appear on the tax bill of each such taxable parcel and shall be
collected at the same time and manner as county property taxes
are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the
same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for
such taxes. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and
enforcement of county property taxes shall be applicable to such
tax. This Measure requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of
all voters voting on the Measure to pass.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to authorize the special tax provided in the
Measure.

A "No" vote is a vote against the special tax provided in the
Measure.

Arguments For Measure L

Measure L is fair. Taxes should be fair for everyone, but current library taxes are unequal. Some areas of
the county pay a library tax and some do not. Measure L requires uniform tax rates for all areas of the
county. Measure L is simple. The tax rate can't grow faster than the economy, the amount of tax is capped,
and it expires in 15 years.

Measure L is necessary. Some library taxes are expiring soon, and the library faces further significant
budget cuts that will mean reductions in services.

Measure L funds can only be used to improve and operate our libraries + guaranteed. They cannot be
diverted to other programs.

Measure L is a good investment in our communities. Libraries enrich the quality of our lives, increase
local property values and are a valuable resource for our children and seniors. Libraries are vital to job
seekers, those who are starting new businesses, and people who need access to new technology.

Measure L helps our children. Parents know that our libraries are safe environments for students to get
homework help and participate in enriching activities. Our libraries provide educational programs for
young children that prepare them to be ready to learn to read by the time they enter kindergarten.

Please make sure our children have a place to read and learn. Keep our libraries strong by voting Yes on

Measure L.

Ellen Day, President Taxpayers' Association El Dorado County Laurel Brent-Bumb, CEO, El Dorado
County Chamber Kathleen G. McCoy, President, League of Women Voters of EDC Larren W.
Calderwood, President, Friends of the Library of El Dorado County Vicki L. Barber, Ed.D., County
Superintendent

(No arguments against Measure L were submitted)

Full Text of Measure L

RESOLUTION NO. 099-2012 OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF EL
DORADO PROPOSING A COUNTYWIDE SPECIAL TAX FOR THE PURPOSE OF REPLACING THE
CAMERON PARK LIBRARY BENEFIT ASSESSMENT (ZONE D), THE EL DORADO HILLS
LIBRARY SPECIAL TAX (ZONE E), THE SOUTH LAKE TAHOE LIBRARY SPECIAL TAX (ZONE F),
THE GEORGETOWN LIBRARY SPECIAL TAX (ZONE G), AND ESTABLISHING A LIBRARY
SPECIAL TAX IN THE PLACERVILLE/POLLOCK PINES ZONE OF BENEFIT (ZONE H), ALL
WITHIN COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 10 WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has previously
established the authority for County Service Area No. 10 to provide library services, and WHEREAS,
Government Code section 25213(d) expressly authorizes a county service area to provide library services
and facilities, and WHEREAS, Government Code section 25215.2 authorizes a county service area to levy
special taxes subject to voter approval, and WHEREAS, Government Code section 53717.2 allows a public
library special tax to be "on or based on benefit received by parcels of real property," and WHEREAS, the
Board of Supervisors proposes to levy a special tax to ensure that funding will exist to maintain library hours
and operations, and WHEREAS, the proposed special tax will apply uniformly throughout County Service
Area No. 10 and will replace the existing Cameron Park library benefit assessment (Zone D), the El Dorado
Hills library special tax (Zone E), the South Lake Tahoe library special tax (Zone F), and the Georgetown
library special tax (Zone G), WHEREAS, pursuant to state law, the Board of Supervisors is required to place
the proposed tax before the voters of County Service Area No. 10 in the affected zones of benefit, and
WHEREAS, under state law, such special tax shall take effect only if approved by 2/3 of the voters casting
ballots at the election on the special tax within County Service Area No. 10, NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT
RESOLVED that the Board of Supervisors finds, determines, declares and orders as follows:

1.	That upon approval by the voters as set forth in this Resolution, the Board of Supervisors, as the
governing authority of County Service Area No. 10 and its zones of benefit, shall cease collecting the Zone
D library benefit assessment approved in 1994, the Zone E library special tax approved in 2004, the Zone F
library special tax approved in 2005, and the Zone G library special tax approved in 2005.

2.	That upon approval by the voters as set forth in this Resolution, the Board of Supervisors, as the
governing authority of County Service Area No. 10 and its zones of benefit, shall levy and assess annually a
special tax to be used solely for library services and facilities, on each parcel of property, residential and
non-residential, within County Service Area No. 10, inclusive of Cameron Park (Zone D), El Dorado Hills
(Zone E), South Lake Tahoe (Zone F), Georgetown (Zone G), and Placerville/Pollock Pines zone of benefit
(Zone H), in the sum of $17.58 per parcel (the "base tax") commencing with the fiscal year 2013-14 and
continuing each fiscal year thereafter, except for those parcels as outlined as follows: a. The annual amount
of the special tax on parcels of land with no improvement value, as determined by the El Dorado County
Assessor, shall be fifty percent (50%) of the base tax per parcel, b. The annual amount of the special tax on
parcels of land developed with multi-family residential dwelling units (excluding time shares) shall be
eighty percent (80%) of the base tax multiplied by the number of multi-family residential dwelling units on
the parcel, c. The annual amount of the special tax on parcels of land developed as mobile home parks shall
be fifty percent (50%) of the base tax multiplied by the number of mobile home park dwelling units on the
parcel, d. The annual amount of the special tax on timeshare parcels shall be $1.00 per timeshare interest, e.
Parcels of land developed with churches, cemeteries, or schools shall be exempt.

3.	"Parcel of property" as used in this resolution shall mean any contiguous unit of real property held in
separate ownership, which is capable of sale or transfer without further action under the Subdivision Map
Act (Government Code section 66410, et seq.).

4.	The tax imposed by this resolution shall appear as a separate item on the tax bill of each such taxable
parcel and shall be collected at the same time and manner as county property taxes are collected as set forth
in the applicable provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and shall be subject to the same penalties
and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for such taxes. All laws applicable to the
levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes shall be applicable to such tax.

5.	The tax rates for parcels as determined above shall be increased annually in proportion to the increase in
the Consumer Price Index (CPI), San Francisco Area, all items, most recently available prior to the date of
the increase, provided, however, that this increase shall not exceed three percent (3%) in any year. The base
special tax shall not exceed $25.00 per taxable parcel.

6.	The special tax described herein shall be imposed for a period of fifteen (15) years, at the end of which
time the special tax shall cease to be imposed.

7.	Upon approval of the special tax described herein, there shall be created an account into which proceeds
of the tax shall be deposited. Additionally, an annual report shall be prepared in accordance with
Government Code section 50075.3.

8.	The following tax measure be submitted to the voters throughout County Service Area No. 10: To
maintain library services, shall El Dorado County levy a special tax within CSA10, commencing in fiscal
year 2013/2014, and expiring after 15 years, at the following rates (with annual increases up to 3%): base tax
of $17.58 per parcel, 80% of the base tax per multi-family residential dwelling unit, 50% of the base tax per
mobilehome for parcels containing mobilehome parks, 50% of the base tax for unimproved parcels, and

$1.00 per timeshare?

9.	The Registrar of Voters is hereby authorized and directed to take all actions necessary for the conduct of
the special election, to canvass the results thereof and to certify the results to the Board of Supervisors. Said
election shall be consolidated with the general election occurring in the County on November 6,2012. 09-

527 09527

El Dorado Home Page II Statewide Links II About Smart Voter II Feedback

Created: December 17, 2012 13:44 PST
Smart Voter <http://www.smartvoter.org/>

Copyright © League of Women Voters of California Education Fund http://cavotes.or2

The League of Women Voters neither supports nor opposes candidates for public office or political parties.