VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF SEBASTOPOL
MEASURE Y

To help preserve the safety, public services and quality of

Ylife of Sebastopol, and provide funding to maintain
essential general fund services such as police, fire, street
and road maintenance and repairs, flood prevention, park
and open space maintenance, and other general community
services, shall an ordinance be adopted increasing the City
transactions and use tax by one half of one percent for a term of
eight (8) years?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Y

The City Council of the City of Sebastopol has placed Measure Y on the November
6,2012 ballot to ask the voters to approve an ordinance that would enact a tem-
porary additional one half of one percent (.5%) sales tax within the City. If approved,
the tax would add a half cent to the price of an item that costs one dollar. Sales
taxes are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail. Re-
tailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of
Equalization, which administers the tax.

The taxon retail sales in Sebastopol is 8.25% of the purchase price. This Measure,
if approved by the voters, would authorize an additional one half of one percent
(.5%) sales tax (officially referred to as a "retail transactions and use* tax), which
would increase the total sales tax rate on retail sales in Sebastopol from 8.25% to
8.75%.

The full amount of the revenue generated by this Measure would go into the City’s
general fund and be available to support the full range of municipal services. Be-
cause this Measure does not limit the use of tax revenue, it is a "general tax", not a
“special tax” that restricts funds to specific purposes. Therefore, as explained in
the ballot question, the City may use the funds for a range of services and projects,
including without limitation, services such as police, fire, street and road mainte-
nance and repairs, flood prevention, park and open space maintenance, and other
general community services.

The tax would automatically terminate 8 years after collection begins. A "Yes" vote
is a vote to approve the enactment of the .5% tax for 8 years. A "No" vote is a vote
against the lax. The Measure would be approved if it receives a simple majority of
"Yes" votes.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Y, if you desire a copy of
the ordinance, please call the City Clerk's office at (707) 823-1153 and a copy will
be mailed at no cost to you.

si Larry McLaughlin
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y

Sebastopol is one of the most desirable places to live in all of California. To con-
tinue the quality of life we must maintain our infrastructure, particularly our streets
and our public safety services. These are valuable assets which belong to, and are
used by, all of us.

Our ability to maintain these public assets has been seriously compromised by the
State’s continued taking of money from cities and counties. Most recently the State
has taken $1,500,000.00 from the City in redevelopment funding.

Simply put, there is not enough money coming in to keep our streets paved and our
city services adequately staffed. Any property owner knows that to defer mainte-
nance is a false economy which will cost far more in the iong run for repairs and
services. Our City staffing has already been cut to less than bare bones and emer-
gency response times have already been jeopardized.

Measure Y will increase the sales tax by one half of one percent. The additional tax
will cost the average Sebastopol family less than $4.00 per month.

The net tax revenue raised by Measure Y will generate approximately $1,000,000.00
per year to support vital City services and infrastructure. About 80% of this amount
will be collected from people who live outside the City limits but still use the City’s
streets and services. The measure has a sunset clause that will require the voters
to reapprove the measure in eight years.

Please join us in voting to support our community and to invest in our common
safety and well being.

si Guy Wilson
Mayor

si Michael Kyes
Vice Mayor

si Kathleen Shaffer
Council Person

s / Patrick Slayter
Council Person

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y

We said in our original argument that Sebastopol’s pension costs comprise 30% of
total payroll. That number was provided by city officials. Those same city officials
now inform us that the correct number is 24%. Both numbers exceed the level of
10% considered sustainable. Regardless which number is correct, our conclusion
remains the same.

Sebastopol's pension costs are excessive and unsustainable. They more than any
other factor explain the erosion of city services. Residents expect local govern-
ment to control costs before asking for more money. If we don’t insist that local offi-
cials take reasonable steps to reform out of control pension costs, new taxes
promoted as temporary will become permanent and the motivation to reform
pensions will dissipate.

Tax increases are a last resort. Residents should not be required to bail out cities
until they implement the reforms necessary to get these costs under control.

Vote no on Y.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION
s/ Dan Drummond, Executive Director	si Jack Atkin, President

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Y

In cities ail across California we've seen basic iocal government services erode as
pension costs overwhelm cities’ budgets. Some cities have declared bankruptcy
and more are likely to do the same. Few are proposing higher taxes in order to
maintain services.

What's even more surprising is that we found no indication in the Sebastopol
Council records, the Budget or the financial reports that the Sebastopol adminis-
tration recognizes or acknowledges the problem presented by these excessive
pension costs. The latest CalPERS report shows that the city’s annual pension
contribution rates are 35% of payroll for police, 41% for fire and 15% for ail other
workers. Overall the City is paying over 30% of payroll for pension benefits alone.
For perspective, Sonoma County is paying about 20% of payroll for pensions and
that is considered unsustainable. The County's goal is to get that cost down to
10% of payroll in 10 years.

in Sebastopol, safety workers can retire as early as age 50 and other workers at
55, well before the normal retirement age set by Social Security of 67.

During a recession with real unemployment in California approaching 17.5%, ev-
eryone in our community has had to sacrifice, in these tough times everyone must
pitch in. It’s time for the City Council to ask the public employees’ unions to do their
fair share by reducing the unsustainable cost of pensions that are devouring the
City’s budget, instead of raising taxes first.

We recommend a no vote.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION

s/ Dan Drummond, Executive Director	sI Jack Atkin, President

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Y

The Taxpayers Association is asking us to sacrifice our streets, our safety„ and our
emergency services based on their anti-government viewpoint which they attempt
to support with highly inaccurate information.

Our City employees are already required to contribute to their retirement benefits
from their paychecks. The fact that Taxpayers Association didn't know that our
employees have already made this and other concessions is remarkable.

in their ballot argument, the Taxpayers Association indicates that police and fire
personnel should share the general retirement age of 67 to save pension costs. Do
you want a 66 year-old rescuing you from a burning building or chasing criminals?

They will undoubtedly claim that they were not given enough time to do their re-
search. Our tax initiative has been discussed for months, the City’s financial condi-
tion for the last decade, if theyreally cared about Sebastopol, they had ample
opportunity to comment and to understand the issues.

What the Taxpayers Association hasn’t addressed is the root problem of the City's
finances: the State’s take-away of local funds, most recently the Redevelopment
Agency, or that the National economy has crashed. The reason for this crash is
well known: the prior administration’s complete iack of oversight and regulation of
the banking, insurance, and mortgage industries. Added to this is a war in Iraq
which burned up a trillion dollars of taxpayers’ money. The Taxpayers Association
should focus on real problems.

Vote yes on Measure Y.

s/ Sarah Glade Gurney	si	Michael	Kyes

Council Member	Vice	Mayor

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Y

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the "INCREASE IN
THE SEBASTOPOL COMMUNITY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX." The City of
Sebastopol hereinafter shall be called “City." This ordinance shall be applicable in
the incorporated territory of the City, which territory shall be referred to here in as
"City."

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this
ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the foliowing,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in
order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose an increase in the retail transactions and use tax in accor-
dance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251} of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 (general tax) of Part 1.7
of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the lax at an election called for that purpose,

B.	To adopt an increased retail transactions and use tax ordinance that in-
corporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State
of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

C.	To adopt an increased retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and col-
lected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory
and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in ad-
ministering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt an increased retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can
be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consis-
tent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same
time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation un-
der the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City
shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident
to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; pro-
vided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case
the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangi-
ble personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one half of one percent of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of ail tangible personal property sold at retail in
said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery
is made, in the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be pre-
scribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

91

9625

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Y, CONT.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the stor-
age, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use
or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one half of one percent of the
sales price of the property.The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as oth-
erwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part i (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION
OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

A,	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the tax-
ing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substi-
tution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Con-
troller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sec-
tions referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result
of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sates, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible persona! property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	in Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711,6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the defini-
tion of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued
to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions
tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible persona! property, other than fuel or petro-
leum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such

aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws
of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is
shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery
to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehi-
cles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Di-
vision 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to
an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to
a place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obli-
gated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amountfixed by the lease priorto the operative date of this
ordinance.

5. For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this sec-
tion, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obli-
gated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or tease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance,
the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordi-
nance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compen-
sation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemp-
tion is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing pur-
chase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease priorto the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pur-
suant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

92

9625

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot}  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Y, CONT.  6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, can- vasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.  7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000} of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840} of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.  D. Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.  Section 12. AMENDMENTS. Ail amendments subseauent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1,7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and ail amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automati- cally become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.  Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or pro- ceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax re- quired to be collected.  Section 14. SEVERABILITY, if any provision of this ordinance or the appli- cation thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.  Section 15. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levvina and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.  Section 16. STATUTORY AUTHORITY FOR TAX. This ordinance is adopted pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code 7285,90.  Section 17. ELECTION REQUIRED. This ordinance shall not become on- erative unless and until a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at the general election to be held November 6, 2012.  Section 18. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to lew the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the eighth (8th) anniversary of the Operative Date, unless extended by a majority vote of the voters of the City,  THE FOREGOING ORDINANCE was adopted by Declaration of the vote of the Sebastopol City Council on the 4th day of December, 2012, at a regular meeting of the Sebastopol City Council by the following vote, to wit:  City of Sebastopol City Council:  Ayes:  Noes:  Abstain:  Absent:	APPROVED:  Mayor  ATTEST:  City Clerk  APPROVED AS TO FORM
	City Attorney  Approved/Not Approved by the Voters of the City of Sebastopol at the Novembers, 2012 Election  If the majority of the qualified electors voting on the initiative measure shall vote in favor thereof, the initiative measure shall become a valid and binding ordinance of the City of Sebastopol and shall be considered adopted upon the date that the vote is declared by the City Council of said City.

93

9625