ITEM 12

June 28, 2012
TO:

FROM:

CITY OF CITRUS HEIGHTS

Memorandum

Mayor and City Council Members
Henry Tingle, City Manager

Approved and Forwarded to City
Council

Fin.

A P P R 0 V F 0 Atty.

APPROVED

Henry Tingle, City Manager

VIA:	Amy Van, City Clerk

SUBJECT:	Adoption	of Resolution Making Minor Administrative Changes to the

Previously Approved Resolution No. 2012-058 Reestablishing
November 6, 2012 as the Date for an Election Regarding a Utility User
Tax Measure

Summary and Recommendation

This recommended action does not change the text of the Utility User Tax Measure attached as
Exhibit A.

On June 14, 2012, the Citrus Heights City Council adopted Resolution No. 2012-058 adding a
Utility User Tax Measure to the November 6, 2012 General Municipal Election ballot. The
resolution requested the County of Sacramento Department of Elections to print the full text of
the proposed ordinance (Exhibit A) in the sample ballot. Subsequent to Council’s action the City
was advised that the cost to print the full text of the proposed ordinance and translate it into
Spanish and Chinese would be $127,124.

Therefore, in order to save costs staff has revised the resolution to instruct the County of
Sacramento Department of Elections to print the following statement in the sample ballot in lieu
of printing the full text of the proposed ordinance: “The above statement is an impartial analysis
of City of Citrus Heights Ordinance amending Citrus Heights Municipal Code Chapter 86,
Article V relating to Utility User Tax. If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please access the
City of Citrus Heights website at: www.citrusheights.net, or call the Office of the City Clerk,
City of Citrus Heights, at (916) 727-4704 and a copy will be provided at no cost to you.”

It is recommended that the City Council adopt the following resolution which would rescind
Resolution No. 2012-058 and reestablish November 6, 2012 as the date for an election on a
Utility User Tax Measure submitted to the voters that would temporarily increase the City’s
existing Utility User Tax by 1.75% for ten years:

Resolution No. 2012-____A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Citrus Heights,

California, Rescinding Resolution No. 2012-058 and Reestablishing November 6, 2012,
at the Date for an Election on a Measure Submitted to the Voters of the City of Citrus
Heights Relating to the City’s Existing Utility User Tax; Establishing Policies and
Procedures in Connection with Such an Election; and Requesting that the County of
Sacramento Conduct Such an Election.

Attachments: (1) Resolution

(2)	Exhibit A - Proposed Ordinance

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CITRUS HEIGHTS
CALIFORNIA, RESCINDING RESOLUTION NO. 2012-058 AND REESTABLISHING
NOVEMBER 6,2012, AS THE DATE FOR AN ELECTION ON A MEASURE
SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF CITRUS HEIGHTS RELATING
TO THE CITY’S EXISTING UTILITY USER TAX; ESTABLISHING POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES IN CONNECTION WITH SUCH AN ELECTION; AND REQUESTING
THAT THE COUNTY OF SACRAMENTO DEPARTMENT OF ELECTIONS

CONDUCT SUCH AN ELECTION

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election on Tuesday, November 6, 2012 has been
called by Resolution No. 2012-049; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized by California Elections Code Section 9222
to place measures before the voters; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Chapter 86, Article V of the Citrus Heights Municipal Code,
the City of Citrus Heights (“City”) imposes Utility User Tax of two and a half percent (2.50%),
which is charged to persons using electric, gas, telephone, cable television, and sewer services in
the City; and

WHEREAS, the existing Utility User Tax is a general tax, the revenues of which are
used for general governmental purposes, and placed in the general fund for the usual current
expenses of the City; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2(d), provides that no local
government may impose, extend or increase any special tax unless and until that tax is submitted
to the electorate and approved by a two-thirds vote; and

WHEREAS, the proceeds of special taxes must be placed in a special fund and, unlike a
general tax, which may be used for any governmental purpose, the proceeds from a special tax
may be used only for purposes specified in the adopting measure; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to place the Utility User Tax Ordinance, attached
hereto and as Exhibit A, as a measure before the voters at the November 6, 2012, general
election; and

WHEREAS, the proposed measure will modernize the City’s existing Utility User Tax
Ordinance to treat taxpayers equally regardless of technology used and increase the current
utility user tax rate by one and three-quarter percent (1.75%), with the revenue from the increase
restricted to funding the hiring of additional police officers, street resurfacing, police technology
and equipment, and programs to prevent youth crime/violence. The increase would sunset on
December 31, 2022; and

WHEREAS, the tax to be submitted to the voters, if approved, would be paid by persons
using electrical energy, gas, telephone service, telecommunication service, cable television and
cable (cable-like) service and sewer service, within the City; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires that the proposed measure be consolidated with the
November 6, 2012 regularly scheduled general election, be held on the same date, and that
within the City, the polling places and election officers of the two elections be the same, and that
the County of Sacramento Department of Election canvass the returns of the general election and
that the election be held in all respects as if there were only one election.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, the City Council of the City of
Citrus Heights does resolve as follows:

1. Placement of Measure on the Ballot. Pursuant to California Elections Code
Section 9222, the City Council of the City of Citrus Heights does order submitted to the voters at
the General Municipal Election the following question:

Crime Reduction and Street Resurfacing Measure

Shall an ordinance be adopted to modify the City’s existing Utility User
Tax to treat taxpayers equally; and to temporarily increase the current rate
by 1.75%, for 10 years, for the following restricted uses: additional police
officers, programs to prevent youth crime/violence, police equipment and
technology, and resurfacing city streets?

□Yes	DNo

2.	Proposed Ordinance. The ordinance authorizing the special tax to be approved
by the voters pursuant to Section 1 is as set forth in Exhibit A hereto. The City Council hereby
approves the submission of the ordinance to the voters of the City at the November 6, 2012,
election. The City instructs the Sacramento County Department of Elections to add the
following statement in the sample ballot: “The above statement is an impartial analysis of City of
Citrus Heights Ordinance amending Citrus Heights Municipal Code Chapter 86, Article V
relating to Utility User Tax. If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please access the City of
Citrus Heights website at: www.citrusheights.net, or call the Office of the City Clerk, City of
Citrus Heights, at (916) 727-4704 and a copy will be provided at no cost to you.”

3.	Publication of Measure. The City Clerk is hereby directed to cause notice of the
measure to be published once in the official newspaper of the City of Citrus Heights, in
accordance with Section 12111 of the Elections Code and Section 6061 of the Government
Code.

4.	Request to Consolidate and Conduct Election and Canvass Returns.

(a)	Pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the Elections Code, the
Board of Supervisors of the County of Sacramento is hereby requested to consent and agree to
the consolidation of a General Municipal Election with the Statewide Election on Tuesday,
November 6, 2012, for the purpose of placing the measure set forth in Section 1 on the ballot.

(b)	The County of Sacramento Election Department is authorized to canvass
the returns of the regularly scheduled General Municipal Election. The election shall be held in
all respects as if there were only one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

(c)	The Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the County
of Sacramento Election Department to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the
consolidated election.

(d)	The City of Citrus Heights recognizes that additional costs will be
incurred by the County of Sacramento by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse
the County for any additional costs above and beyond those reimbursed by the State.

6.	Submission of Ballot Arguments and Impartial Analysis.

(a)	The last day for submission of direct arguments for or against the measure
shall be by 5 p.m. on June 28, 2012.

(b)	The last day for submission of rebuttal arguments for or against the
measure shall be by 5 p.m. on July 9, 2012.

(c)	Direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred words and shall be signed
by not more than five persons.

(d)	Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed two hundred fifty words and shall be
signed by not more than five persons; those persons may be different persons than the persons
who signed the direct arguments.

(e)	The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure by

June 28, 2012.

(f)	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9282, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to prepare a written argument in favor of the proposed measure, not to exceed 300
words, on behalf of the City Council. At the Mayor’s discretion, the argument may also be
signed by members of the City Council or bona fide associations or by individual voters who are
eligible to vote on the measure. In the event that an argument is filed against the measure, the
Mayor is also authorized to prepare a rebuttal argument on behalf of the City Council, which
may also be signed by members of the City Council or bona fide associations or by individual
voters who are eligible to vote on the measure.

(g)	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9285, when the City Clerk
has selected the arguments for and against the measure, which will be printed and distributed to
the voters, the City Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the measure to the authors
of the argument against, and copies of the argument against to the authors of the argument in
favor. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the direct arguments. Each
rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct argument, which it seeks to rebut.

7.	Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
passage and adoption, and the City Clerk is directed to send certified copies of this Resolution to

the Sacramento Board of Supervisors, to the County Clerk-Recorder, and County of Sacramento
Election Department.

8.	CEQA. The approval of this Resolution is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal.
Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). The transactions and use tax to be submitted
to the voters is a special tax that can be used for municipal facilities, equipment, and additional
staffing; it is not a commitment to any particular action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines
section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA because it creates a
government funding mechanism that does not involve any commitment to any specific project
that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. If revenue from
the tax were used for a purpose that would have either such effect, the city would undertake the
required CEQA review for that particular project. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines
section 15060, CEQA analysis is not required.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Citrus Heights this_

day of June 2012, by the following vote:

AYES:	Council	Members:

NOES:	Council	Members:

ABSENT:	Council	Members:

ABSTAIN:	Council	Members:

Jeff Slowey, Mayor

ATTEST:

Amy Van, City Clerk

Exhibit A

ORDINANCE NO. 2012-________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CITRUS HEIGHTS AMENDING CHAPTER 86,
ARTICLE V. OF THE CITRUS HEIGHTS MUNICIPAL CODE WITH RESPECT TO

THE UTILITY USER TAX

WHEREAS, pursuant to Citrus Heights Municipal Code Chapter 86, Article V, the City
of Citrus Heights (“City”) imposes Utility User Tax of two and one-half percent (2.50%), which
is charged to persons using electric, gas, telephone, cable television, and sewer services in the
City; and

WHEREAS, the existing Utility User Tax is a general tax, the revenues of which are
used for general governmental purposes, and placed in the general fund for the usual current
expenses of the City; and

WHEREAS, this Ordinance would update the definition of telecommunication and video
(cable-like) services so that taxpayers are treated the same regardless of the technology used; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2(d), provides that no local
government may impose a special tax unless and until that tax is submitted to the electorate and
approved by two-thirds vote; and

WHEREAS, the proceeds of special taxes must be placed in a special fund and, unlike a
general tax, which may be used for any governmental purpose, the proceeds from a special tax
may be used only for purposes specified in the adopting measure; and

WHEREAS, this ordinance provides for a specific funding source for street resurfacing,
additional police officers, police equipment and technology and programs to prevent youth
crime/violence, in the form of a one and three-quarter percent (1.75%) temporary increase in the
existing Utility User Tax; and

WHEREAS, the special tax enacted by this Ordinance shall sunset and no longer be
collected as of December 31,2022.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF CITRUS HEIGHTS DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Amendment. Section 86, Article Y. of the Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

ARTICLE V.

UTILITY USER TAX

Sec. 86-141. Short Title.

Sec. 86-142. Tax Imposed.

Sec. 86-143 Definitions.

Sec. 86-144.
Sec. 86-145.
Sec. 86-146.
Sec. 86-147.
Sec. 86-148.
Sec. 86-149.
Sec.86-150.
Sec. 86-151.
Sec.86-152.
Sec. 86-153.
Sec. 86-154.
Sec.86-155.
Sec.86-156.
Sec.86-157.
Sec.86-158.
Sec.86-159.
Sec.86-160.
Sec. 86-161.
Sec.86-162.
Sec. 86-163.
Sec. 86-164.
Sec. 86-165.
Sec. 86-166.
Sec. 86-167.

Constitutional, Statutory, and Other Exemptions.

Telecommunication User Tax.

Video User Tax.

Electricity User Tax.

Gas User Tax.

Collection of tax from service users receiving direct purchase of gas or electricity.
Sewer User Tax.

Bundling Taxable Items with Non-taxable Items.

Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts.

Duty to collect—Procedures.

Collection Penalties—Service Suppliers.

Actions to Collect.

Deficiency Determination and Assessment—Tax Application Errors.
Administrative Remedy—Non-Paying Service Users.

Additional powers and duties of the Tax Administrator.

Records.

Refunds.

Appeals.

Notice No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization.

Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption, Remittance, and Expenditure.
Remedies Cumulative.

Interaction with Prior Tax.

Sec. 86-141. Short Title.

This Article shall be known as the "Utility User Tax Ordinance" of the City.

Sec. 86-142. Tax Imposed.

There is established and levied on the effective date of the ordinance from which this
article is derived, a utility user tax in the manner and at the rates set below:

(a)	A general tax of 2.50 percent to be placed in the city’s general fund and used for the usual
current expenses of the city.

(b)	A temporary special tax of 1.75 percent, which will sunset on December 31,2022 and will be
placed in a special revenue funds, to be used as follows:

(1)	.875 percent will be used for street resurfacing;

(2)	.547 percent will be used for additional Police Officers;

(3)	.218 percent will be used for Police Equipment and Technology and

(4)	.110 percent will be used for Programs to Prevent Youth Crime/Violence.

(c)	The purpose of the special tax set forth in subsection (b) is to provide a dedicated source of
funding for street resurfacing, additional police officers, police equipment and technology, and

programs to prevent youth crime/violence. The proceeds of this special tax shall be used
exclusively to pay for those purposes identified in this subsection. In accordance with the
requirements of Government Code Section 50075.1 and 50075.3, a separate fund, referred to as
the Street Resurfacing and Crime Reduction Measure Fund, shall be created, into which the
proceeds from the special tax must be deposited. As part of the Tax Administrator’s annual
audit, he/she shall file a report with the City Council, providing information on the amount of
funds collected and expended, and the status of any projects authorized to be funded by this
special tax.

Sec. 86-143. Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Article shall be construed as
defined in this section.

(a)	Ancillary telecommunication services means services that are associated with or incidental to
the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services, including but not limited to the
following services:

(1)	Conference bridging service means an ancillary service that links two or more
participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision of a telephone
number. Conference bridging service does not include the telecommunications services used to
reach the conference bridge.

(2)	Detailed telecommunications billing service means an ancillary service of separately
stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing statement.

(3)	Directory assistance means an ancillary service of providing telephone number
information, and/or address information.

(4)	Vertical service means an ancillary service that is offered in connection with one or
more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling features that allow customers
to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections, including conference
bridging services.

(5)	Voice mail service means an ancillary service that enables the customer to store, send
or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any vertical services that the
customer may be required to have in order to utilize the voice mail service.

(b)	Ancillary video services means services that are associated with or incidental to the provision
or delivery of video services, including but not limited to electronic program guide services,
search functions, recording services, or other interactive services or communications that are
associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of video services.

(c)	Billing Address shall mean the mailing address of the service user where the service supplier
submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

(d)	City shall mean the City of Citrus Heights.

(e)	Gas shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel, which may be
substituted therefore.

(f)	Mobile Telecommunications Service has the meaning and usage as set forth in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations there under.

(g)	Month shall mean a calendar month.

(h)	Non-Utility Service Supplier means:

(1)	A service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all or a
significant portion of the City, which generates electricity for sale to others, and shall
include but is not limited to any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility,
co-generator, distributed generation provider, exempt wholesale generator (15 U.S.C.
Section 79z-5a), municipal utility district, federal power marketing agency, electric rural
cooperative, or other supplier or seller of electricity;

(2)	An electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator, pool
operator, or other electricity supplier other than a supplier of electric distribution services
to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies electricity or
supplemental services to electricity users within the City; or

(3)	A gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than a supplier of gas
distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies gas
or supplemental services to gas users within the City.

(i)	Paging service means a “telecommunications service” that provides transmission of coded
radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers; such transmissions may include
messages and/or sounds.

(j)	Person shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust, common law trust,
estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock company, joint venture,
limited liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic, and non-profit), municipal
district or municipal corporation (other than the City), cooperative, receiver, trustee, guardian, or
other representative appointed by order of any court.

(k)	Place of Primary Use means the street address representative of where the customer's use of
the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which must be the residential street address or
the primary business street address of the customer.

(l)	Post-paid telecommunication service means the telecommunication service obtained by
making a payment on a telecommunication-by-telecommunication basis either through the use of
a credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or
by charge made to a service number which is not associated with the origination or termination
of the telecommunication service.

(m)	Prepaid telecommunication service means the right to access telecommunication services,
which must be paid for in advance and which enables the origination of telecommunications
using an access number or authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed, and
that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the number declines with use in a known
amount.

(n)	Private telecommunication service means a telecommunication service that entitles the
customer to exclusive or priority use of a telecommunications channel or group of channels
between or among termination points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or
channels are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other
associated services that are provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A
telecommunications channel is a physical or virtual path of telecommunications over which
signals are transmitted between or among customer channel termination points (i.e., the location
where the customer either inputs or receives the telecommunications).

(o)	Service Address shall mean the residential street address or the business street address of the
service user. For a telecommunication or video service user, "service address" means either:

(1)	The location of the service user’s telecommunication or video equipment from which
the communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the communication is
billed or paid; or,

(2)	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (e.g., mobile
telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address shall mean- the location
of the service user's place of primary use.

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” shall mean the location
associated with the service number, or if unknown, the point of sale of the services.

(p)	Service Supplier shall mean any entity or person, including the City that provides
telecommunication or video service to a user of such service within the City.

(q)	Service User shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under the provisions of this
Article.

(r)	State shall mean the State of California.

(s)	Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement shall mean the multi-state agreement commonly
known and referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, and as it is amended
from time to time.

(t)	Tax Administrator means the Finance Director of the City or his or her designee.

(u)	Telecommunications services means the transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data,
audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or among points,
whatever the technology used. The term “telecommunications services” includes such

transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP)
services or are classified by the Federal Telecommunications Commission as enhanced or value
added, and includes video and/or data services that is functionally integrated with
“telecommunication services”. “Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to
the following services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or
billed: ancillary telecommunication services; intrastate, interstate, and international
telecommunication services; mobile telecommunications service; prepaid telecommunication
service; post-paid telecommunication service; private telecommunication service; paging service;
800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Telecommunications
Commission); 900 service (or any other similar numbers designated by the Federal
Telecommunications Commission for services whereby subscribers who call in to pre-recorded
or live service).

(v)	Video Programming means those programming services commonly provided to subscribers
by a “video service supplier” including but not limited to basic services, premium services, audio
services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on demand, origination programming, or
any other similar services, regardless of the content of such video programming, or the
technology used to deliver such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such
services are calculated or billed.

(w)	Video Services means “video programming” and any and all services related to the providing,
recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of “video programming” (including origination
programming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video) using one or
more channels by a “video service supplier”, regardless of the technology used to deliver, store
or provide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are
calculated or billed, and includes ancillary video services, data services, “telecommunication
services”, or interactive communication services that are functionally integrated with “video
services”.

(x)	Video Service Supplier means any person, company, or service which provides or sells one or
more channels of video programming, or provides or sells the capability to receive one or more
channels of video programming, including any telecommunications that are ancillary, necessary
or common to the provision, use or enjoyment of the video programming, to or from a business
or residential address in the City, where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or
rental charges for that service, whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of
the video programming or telecommunications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not
limited to, multichannel video programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section
522(13)]; open video systems (OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television; master antenna
television; satellite master antenna television; multichannel multipoint distribution services
(MMDS); video services using internet protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video, which provide,
among other things, broadcasting and video on demand), direct broadcast satellite to the extent
federal law permits taxation of its video services, now or in the future; and other suppliers of
video services (including two-way communications), whatever their technology.

(y)	VoIP (voice over internet protocol) means the digital process of making and receiving real-
time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

(z)	800 service means a “telecommunications service” that allows a caller to dial a toll-free
number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically marketed under the name
“800”, “855”, “866”, “877”, and “888” toll-free calling, and any subsequent numbers designated
by the Federal Communications Commission.

(aa) 900 service means an inbound toll “telecommunications service” purchased by a subscriber
that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s prerecorded announcement or
live service. “900 service” does not include the charge for: collection services provided by the
seller of the “telecommunications services” to the subscriber, or service or product sold by the
subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is typically marketed under the name “900”
service, and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission.

Sec. 86-144. Constitutional, Statutory, and Other Exemptions.

(a)	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person or service when
the imposition of such tax upon such person or service would be in violation of a federal or state
statute, the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State.

(b)	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Article pursuant to subsection

(a)	of this section shall file an application with the Tax Administrator for an exemption;
provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a state or federal
agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized name for such service. Said application shall
be made upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator and shall state those facts, declared
under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall include the
names of all utility service suppliers serving that service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax
Administrator, such service user shall give the Tax Administrator timely written notice of any
change in utility service suppliers so that the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new
utility service supplier of the service user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply
with this section shall not be entitled to a refund of utility user taxes collected and remitted to the
Tax Administrator from such service user as a result of such noncompliance.

(c)	The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 86-161 of this
Article. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City Manager
pursuant to Section 86-161 of this Article is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

(d)	The City Council may, by resolution, establish one or more classes of persons or one or more
classes of utility service otherwise subject to payment of a tax imposed by this Article and
provide that such classes of persons or service shall be exempt, in whole or in part from such tax
for a specified period of time.

Sec. 86-145. Telecommunication User Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using telecommunication
services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the percentage rates listed in section 86-142
on the charges made for such services and shall be collected from the service user by the
telecommunication services supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that
telecommunication services, which are billed to a billing or service address in the City, are used,
in whole or in part, within the City's boundaries, and such services are subject to taxation under
this Article. There is also a rebuttable presumption that prepaid telecommunication services sold
within the City are used, in whole or in part, within the City and are therefore subject to taxation
under this Article. If the billing address of the service user is different from the service address,
the service address of the service user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in
this Section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of
every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the
telecommunication services.

(b)	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” shall be sourced in accordance with the sourcing rules
set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124). The Tax
Administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunication service suppliers, which are
subject to the tax collection requirements of this Article, sourcing rules for the taxation of other
telecommunication services, including but not limited to post-paid telecommunication services,
prepaid telecommunication services, VoIP, and private communication services, provided that
such rules are based upon custom and common practice that further administrative efficiency and
minimize multi-jurisdictional taxation (e.g., Streamline Sales and Use Tax Agreement).

(c)	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to telecommunication service suppliers,
which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Article, an administrative ruling
identifying those telecommunication services, or charges therefore, that are subject to or not
subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(d)	As used in this section, the term “telecommunication services” shall include, but are not
limited to charges for: connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change of
telecommunication services; late payment fees; detailed billing; central office and custom calling
features(including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-
way calling); voice mail and other messaging services; directory assistance; access and line
charges; universal service charges; regulatory, administrative and other cost recovery charges;
local number portability charges; and text and instant messaging. “Telecommunication services”
shall not include digital downloads that are not “ancillary telecommunications services”, such as
books, music, ringtones, games, and similar digital products.

(e)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telecommunication services subject to tax
under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the service user has
previously paid the same tax in another state or local jurisdiction on such telecommunication
services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax
legally imposed in such other state or local jurisdiction; provided, however, the amount of credit
shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this section.

(f)	The tax on telecommunication services imposed by this section shall be collected from the
service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before
the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

Sec. 86-146. Video User Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using video services. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the percentage rates listed in section 86-142 on the charges
made for such services and shall be collected from the service user by the video service supplier
or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that video services, which are billed to a
billing or service address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City's boundaries,
and such services are subject to taxation under this Article. If the billing address of the service
user is different from the service address, the service address of the service user shall be used for
purposes of imposing the tax.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, charges for the
following:

(1)	Regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees and access fees (PEG);

(2)	Initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of video services;

(3)	Late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

(4)	Activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

(5)	Video programming and video services;

(6)	ancillary video programming services (e.g., electronic program guide services, search
functions, recording functions, or other interactive services or communications that are
ancillary, necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of the video services);

(7)	Equipment leases (e.g., remote, recording and/or search devises; converters); and,

(8)	Service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services, and special
services.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in
exchange for the video services.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to video service suppliers, which are
subject to the tax collection requirements of this Article, an administrative ruling identifying
those video services, or charges therefore, that are subject to or not subject to the tax of
subsection (a) above.

(e)	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the video service
supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services. In the case of video service, the service
user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video service (e.g., an apartment owner),
unless such service is resold to individual users, in which case the service user shall be the
ultimate purchaser of the video service. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before
the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

Sec. 86-147. Electricity User Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electricity in the City. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the percentage rates listed in section 86-142 on the charges
made for such electricity, and for any supplemental services or other associated activities directly
related to and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the service user, which are provided
by a service supplier or non-utility service supplier to a service user. The tax shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the first forty-five dollars ($45.00) in total monthly charges made
for electrical energy to a residential service user shall be exempt from the tax levied by this
section.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and items
that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service; or, ii)
currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by
a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but
is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	Energy charges;

(2)	Distribution or transmission charges;

(3)	Metering charges;

(4)	Stand-by, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation, emergency, or other
similar charges for supplemental services to self-generation service users;

(5)	Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges,
demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange charges, independent
system operator (ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive transition charges
(CTC), public purpose program charges, nuclear decommissioning charges, trust transfer
amounts (bond financing charges), franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and
monthly charges, and other charges, fees or surcharges which are necessary for or
common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service; and,

(5)	Charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs which are mandated
by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory

Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or
line item basis on the customer billing.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in
exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision of such electricity.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric service suppliers to
identify the various unbundled billing components of electric retail service that they commonly
provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the of the City, and the charges
therefore, including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a
condition of providing such electric service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and
disseminate to such electric service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those
components and items which are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of
electric service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate
for electric service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for
such components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(e)	As used in this section, the term “using electricity” shall not include the mere receiving of
such electricity by an electrical corporation or governmental agency at a point within the City for
resale.

(f)	The tax on electricity provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier not
under the jurisdiction of this Article shall be collected and remitted in the manner set forth in
Section 86-149 of this Article. All other taxes on charges for electricity imposed by this section
shall be collected from the service user by the electric service supplier or its billing agent. The
amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month;
or, at the option of the person required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an
estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment
pattern of the service user, which must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the
twentieth (20th) day of the following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted
payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar
quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any
subsequent remittance that becomes due.

Sec. 86-148. Gas User Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the City, which is transported
and delivered through a pipeline or by mobile transport. The tax imposed by this section shall be
at the percentage rates listed in section 86-142 on the charges made for such gas, including all
services related to the storage, transportation and delivery of such gas. The tax shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent,
and shall apply to all uses of gas, including but not limited to, heating, electricity generation, and
the use of gas as a component of a manufactured product. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the

charges made for the baseline rate usage approved by the California Public Utilities Commission
for gas furnished to a residential service user shall be exempt from the tax levied by this Section.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and items
for gas service that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas
service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for gas
service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall
include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	The commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned by the service
user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting, storage,
gathering, trunk line, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with the production
and delivery of such gas), which is delivered through a gas pipeline distribution system;

(2)	Gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not included in
commodity charges);

(3)	Storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier shall not be required to
apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the service supplier cannot, as
a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where such stored gas is ultimately used; but
it shall be the obligation of the service user to self-collect the amount of tax not applied to
any charge for gas storage by the service supplier and to remit the tax to the appropriate
jurisdiction;

(4)	Capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, transition charges, customer charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly
charges, and any other charges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment of gas service; and,

(5)	Charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs, which are mandated by the
California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on
the customer billing.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in
exchange for the gas or services related to the delivery of such gas.

(d)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas service suppliers to identify
the various unbundled billing components of gas retail service that they commonly provide to
residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the charges therefore, including
those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing
such gas service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such gas
service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are: i)
necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or, ii) currently are or
historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution

company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject
to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(e)	There shall be excluded from the calculation of the tax imposed in this section charges made
for gas that is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution system.

(f)	The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a non-utility service supplier not under the
jurisdiction of this Article shall be collected and remitted in the manner set forth in Section
86.149. All other taxes on charges for gas imposed by this section shall be collected from the
service user by the gas service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one
(1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax
Administrator, on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of
the person required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount
of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the
service user, which must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th)
day of the following month, provided that such person shall submit an adjusted payment or
request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The
credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent remittance
that becomes due.

Sec. 86-149. Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas or
Electricity.

(a)	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by Section 86-147 or by Section 86-148 of this
Article, which produces gas or electricity for self-use; which receives gas or electricity, including
any related supplemental services, directly from a non-utility service supplier not under the
jurisdiction of this Article; or which, for any other reason, is not having the full tax collected and
remitted by its service supplier, a non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent on the use of
gas or electricity in the City, including any related supplemental services, shall report said fact to
the Tax Administrator and shall remit the tax due directly to the Tax Administrator within thirty
(30) days of such use, based on the charges for, or value of, such gas or electricity, or
supplemental services, as provided in subsection (b). In lieu of paying said actual tax, the
service user may, at its option, remit to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use
an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the
payment pattern of similar customers of the service supplier using similar amounts of gas or
electricity, provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit,
as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by
the Tax Administrator in writing, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that becomes
due.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may require said service user to identify its non-utility service
supplier, and otherwise provide, subject to audit: invoices; books of account; or other
satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used, including any related
supplemental services, and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is unable to provide such
satisfactory evidence, or if the administrative cost of calculating the tax in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator is excessive, the Tax Administrator may determine the tax by applying the tax rate

to the equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if the gas or electricity used,
including any related supplemental services, had been provided by the service supplier that is the
primary supplier of gas or electricity within the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be
available from the City.

Sec. 86-150. Sewer User Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using sewer services within the
City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the percentage rates listed in section 86-142 on
the charges made for such sewer service. The tax shall be paid by the person using such sewer
service.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and items
that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of sewer service; or, ii)
currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for sewer service to
retail customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges,
annual and monthly charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary
for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of sewer service; and,

(2)	Charges, fees, or surcharges for sewer services or programs, which are mandated by
the City, a state or federal agency, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges
appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

(c)	The tax on sewer service imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by
the sewer service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall
be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

Sec. 86-151. Bundling Taxable Items with Non-Taxable Items.

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable
service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge is
subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable standards, the
portions of the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier's
books and records kept in the regular course of business, and in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. If the service
supplier offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges are separately
stated, then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall
be based on its books and records kept in the regular course of business and in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The
service supplier has the burden of proving the proper valuation and apportionment of the taxable
and non-taxable services.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this
Article, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the
imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility user tax to the fullest extent permitted by
state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by
statutory enactment. Any telecommunication service (including VoIP) used by a person with a
service address in the City, which service is capable of terminating a call to another person on
the general telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial
nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect
and remit a tax, under this Article. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity
in the City for tax collection and remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not limited
to, any of the following: maintains or has within the City, directly or through an agent, affiliate,
or subsidiary, a place of business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees,
independent contractors, resellers, agents or other representatives; solicits business in the City on
a continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is broadcast or
relayed from a transmitter within the City or distributed from a location within the City; or
advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the City or through
materials distributed in the City by means other than the United States mail; or if there are
activities performed in the City on behalf of the service supplier that are significantly associated
with the service supplier’s ability to establish and maintain a market in the City for the provision
of utility services that are subject to a tax under this Article.

Sec. 86-153. Duty to Collect-Procedures.

(a)	Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit the taxes
imposed by the provisions of this Article shall be performed as follows:

(1)	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at the same time
as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance with the regular
billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by a service user to a
service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge and tax, which was accrued for
the billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the tax, shall be deemed to
have been paid. In those cases where a service user has notified the service supplier of
refusal to pay the tax imposed on said charges, Section 86.157 shall apply.

(2)	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall commence
with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the service user where
all charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this
Article. Where a service user receives more than one billing, one or more being for
different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing
period.

(b)	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this Article to remit a tax shall file a
return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax Administrator, on or before the
due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included with the return and filed with the

Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to require such additional information
as he or she deems necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in
accordance with this Article. Returns are due immediately upon cessation of business for any
reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code Section 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and its
agents, shall maintain such filing returns as confidential information that is exempt from the
disclosure provisions of the Public Records Act.

Sec. 86-154. Collection Penalties—Service Suppliers.

(a)	Taxes collected by service supplier from a service user are delinquent if not received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal
holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator on the first regular working day
following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic fund transfers and
other similar methods of electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by
a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection shall be considered
timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer settles into the City’s
account on the following business day.

(b)	If the person required to collect and/or remit the utility user tax fails to collect the tax (by
failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or charges on the customer’s billing) or
fails to remit the tax collected on or before the due date, the Tax Administrator shall attach a
penalty for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the total tax
that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate of 75/100ths
percent (0.75%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon persons
required to collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Article for fraud or gross
negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen (15%) percent of the amount of the tax
collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax Administrator.

(d)	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is accrued under
the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

(e)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax Administrator may, in his or her discretion, modify
the due dates of this Article to be consistent with any uniform standards or procedures that are
mutually agreed upon by other public agencies imposing a utility user tax, or otherwise legally
established, to create a central payment location or mechanism.

Sec. 86-155. Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this Article shall be
deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a service user
which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City
by the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service user. Any
person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Article shall be liable to an action

brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount, including penalties and interest
as provided for in this Article, along with any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of
the person’s noncompliance with this Article, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys
fees. Any tax required to be collected by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an
unsecured priority excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8)(C). Service
suppliers who seek to collect charges for service in bankruptcy proceedings shall also include in
any such claim the amount of taxes due the City for those services, unless the Tax Administrator
determines that such duty is in conflict with any federal or state law, rule, or regulation or that
such action would be administratively impractical.

Sec. 86-156. Deficiency Determination and Assessment-Tax Application Errors.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she determines that any
service supplier or service user required to pay, collect, and/or remit taxes pursuant to the
provisions of this Article has failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the proper amount of tax by
improperly or failing to apply the tax to one or more taxable services or charges. Nothing herein
shall require that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this Section 86.156 if, in the
opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax
benefit.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the person or
entity allegedly owing the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes owed,
plus interest at the rate of 75/100ths percent (0.75%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have been received by the City. Within
fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of service of such notice, the person or entity allegedly
owing the tax may request in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the matter.

(c)	If the person or entity allegedly owing the tax fails to request a hearing within the prescribed
time period, the amount of the deficiency determination shall become a final assessment, and
shall immediately be due and owing to the City. If the person requests a hearing, the Tax
Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirty
(30) days after receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator to such person or entity at least ten (10)
calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person or entity to
produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate the records requested to be
produced.

(d)	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant testimony and
evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the discretion of the Tax
Administrator, the hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing the
presentation of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the
hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessment), thereafter, by
confirming, modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and shall mail a copy
of such final assessment to person or entity owing the tax. The decision of the Tax
Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section 86.161 of this Article. Filing an application

with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City Manager pursuant to Section 86-161 of this
Article is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

(e)	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of receipt of the notice of
final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on the total amount
of the assessment, along with interest at the rate of 75/100ths percent (0.75%) per month, or any
fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date of delinquency,
until paid. The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the City seeking payment of
a tax assessed under this Article shall commence from the date of delinquency as provided in this
subsection (e).

(f)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail; postage prepaid, and shall be
deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a
proof of mailing.

Sec. 86-157. Administrative Remedy—Non-Paying Service Users.

(a)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately withheld the
amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a person required to
collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or
she may relieve such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this Article from
certain named service users for specific billing periods. To the extent the service user has failed
to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, the service
supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide
the City with the names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under
the provisions of this Article. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this Section 86.157 if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of
collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

(b)	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty at the rate of
fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay interest at the rate of 75/100ths
percent (0.75%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the due date, until paid.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax Administrator
has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand
payment of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice shall be served on the service
user by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made by the person required to
collect the tax; or, should the service user have a change of address, to his or her last known
address.

(d)	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days from
the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Administrator may impose an
additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the total tax that is owed.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this Article.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent with
provisions of this Article for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and enforcing
the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such
administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office. To the
extent that the Tax Administrator determines that the tax imposed under this Article shall not be
collected in full for any period of time from any particular service supplier or service user, that
determination shall be considered an exercise of the Tax Administrator's discretion to settle
disputes and shall not constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government
Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The Tax Administrator is not authorized to amend the City's
methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750 and the City does not waive or
abrogate its ability to impose the utility user tax in full as a result of promulgating administrative
rulings or entering into agreements.

(c)	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make administrative
agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of this Article and
thereby: (1) conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so long as said
agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope
of this Article; or, (2) to avoid a hardship where the administrative costs of collection and
remittance greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in
the Tax Administrator's office, and are voidable by the Tax Administrator or the City at any
time.

(d)	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with the
requirements of this Article, of any person required to collect and/or remit a tax pursuant to this
Article. The Tax Administrator shall notify said person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In
the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period of review shall not exceed
a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by said person
from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax Administrator may make a
deficiency determination pursuant to Section 86.156 of this Article for all taxes (and applicable
penalties and interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person
to the Tax Administrator. If said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to
enable the Tax Administrator to verify compliance with this Article, the Tax Administrator is
authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be
entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

(e)	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax Administrator
may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to this Article for a period of not
to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the time for filing the required statement has not
already passed when the request is received. No penalty for delinquent payment shall accrue by
reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at the rate of 75/100ths
percent (0.75%) per month, prorated for any portion thereof.

(f)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a right to
exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Article.

(g)	Notwithstanding any provision in this Article to the contrary, the Tax Administrator may
waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required to collect and/or remit for failure
to collect the tax imposed by this Article if the non-collection occurred in good faith. In
determining whether the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into
consideration the uniqueness of the product or service, industry practice or other precedence.

The Tax Administrator may also participate with other UUT public agencies in conducting
coordinated compliance reviews with the goal of achieving administrative efficiency and
uniform tax application determinations, where possible. To encourage full disclosure and on-
going cooperation on annual compliance reviews, the Tax Administrator, and its agents, may
enter into agreements with the tax-collecting service providers and grant prospective only effect
on any changes regarding the taxation of services or charges that were previously deemed by the
service provider, in good faith and without gross negligence, to be non-taxable. In determining
whether the non-collection was in good faith and without gross negligence, the Tax
Administrator shall take into consideration the uniqueness of the product or service, industry
practice or other precedence.

Sec. 86-159. Records.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax
imposed by this Article to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years, all records as
may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have been liable for the
collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall
have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

(b)	The City, through the City Council, may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a person
to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the Tax
Administrator to establish compliance with this Article, including the delivery of records in a
common electronic format on readily available media if such records are kept electronically by
the person in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the
subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the due date provided in the
administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to such records outside the City on or
before the due date, provided that such person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable travel
expenses incurred by the City to inspect those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and
other similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those persons
designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

(c)	The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement approved by the
City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer information pursuant to California
Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.

(d)	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the
tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator the name, address and

telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the service
supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the Tax
Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the possession of
such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary
to verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

(e)	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably denies the Tax
Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the information requested in an
administrative subpoena within the time specified, then the Tax Administrator may impose a
penalty of $500 on such person for each day following: i) the initial date that the person refuses
to provide such access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as set forth in the
administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed under
this Article.

Sec. 86-160. Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Article from a
service user or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this section:

(a)	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid or paid more than once or
has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this
Article from a service user or service supplier, provided that no refund shall be paid under the
provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor, or
administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one year of the
overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly establish
claimant's right to the refund by written records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein
shall permit the filing of a claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each member
of the class has submitted a written claim under penalty of perjury as provided by this
subsection. It is the intent of the City Council that the one year written claim requirement of this
subsection be given retroactive effect; provided, however, that any claims which arose prior to
the commencement of the one year claims period of this subsection, and which are not
otherwise barred by a then applicable statute of limitations or claims procedure, must be filed
with the Tax Collector as provided in this subsection within ninety (90) days following the
effective date of this ordinance.

(b)	The filing of a written claim pursuant to California Government Code Section 935 is a
prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the City pursuant to this section
shall be subject to the provisions of California Government Code Sections 945.6 and 946.

(c)	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, the Tax Administrator
may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to a service supplier, who has collected and
remitted any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed by this Article, to claim credit
for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due the City upon a subsequent
monthly return(s) to the Tax Administrator, provided that: i) such credit is claimed in a return
dated no later than one year from the date of overpayment or erroneous collection of said tax; ii)

the Tax Administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis and amount of such credit has been
reasonably established; and, iii) in the case of an overpayment by a service user to the service
supplier that has been remitted to the City, the Tax Administrator has received proof, to his or
her satisfaction, that the overpayment has been refunded by the service supplier to the service
user in an amount equal to the requested credit.

Sec. 86-161. Appeals.

(a)	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund
pursuant to Section 86.160 of this Article), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any person aggrieved by any decision (other
than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 86-161 of this Article), deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, shall be required to
comply with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with this section shall be a
prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government Code Section 935(b)]. Nothing herein shall
permit the filing of a claim or action on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

(b)	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant
to Section 86.160 of this Article), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling
of the Tax Administrator; he or she may appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice of appeal
with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the decision, deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator which aggrieved
the service user or service supplier.

(c)	The matter shall be scheduled for hearing before an independent hearing officer selected by
the City Manager, no more than thirty (30) days from the receipt of the appeal. The appellant
shall be served with notice of the time and place of the hearing, as well as any relevant materials,
at least five (5) calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to
time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the Tax
Administrator, and any other interested person may present such relevant evidence as he or she
may have relating to the determination from which the appeal is taken.

(d)	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s files, the hearing
officer shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or reversing the determination
from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within fourteen (14) days after the
conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The notice shall specify
that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be filed within ninety (90)
days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.

(e)	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail; postage prepaid, and shall be
deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a
proof of mailing.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer of the City to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this Article of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected and/or remitted.

Sec. 86-163. Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

If a tax under this Article is added repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is
changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of California Public
Utilities Code Section 799.

Sec. 86-164. Effect of State and Federal Reference/Authorization.

(a)	Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
Article shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that such
reference to a statute herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or to any
subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of law with the
duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of interpretation would
require voter approval under California law, or to the extent that such change would result in a
tax decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of a utility service, or charge therefore, from
taxation). Only to the extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would
result, the prior version of the statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any
application or situation that would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax,
provisions of the amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum
possible extent.

(b)	To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this
Article is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no amendment or
modification of this Article shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax
shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of the
tax imposed under this Article.

Sec. 86-165. Independent Audit of Tax Collection, Exemption, Remittance, and
Expenditure.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Article have been properly
applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Article, and properly
expended according to applicable municipal law. The annual verification shall be performed by
a qualified independent third party and the review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps
to assure compliance, including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be required
of tax remitters where the cost of the verification may exceed the tax revenues to be reviewed.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Article or which are available under any
other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims Act
(Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act (Business and
Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by
the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this Article.

Sec. 86-167. Interaction with Prior Tax.

(a)	Collection of Tax by Service Providers. Service providers shall begin to collect the tax
imposed by this amended Chapter 86, Article V. as soon as feasible after the effective date of the
Article, but in no event later than permitted by Section 799 of the California Public Utilities
Code.

(b)	Satisfaction of Tax Obligation by Service Users. Prior to April 1,2013, any person who pays
the tax levied pursuant to Chapter 86, Article V. of this Code, as it existed prior to its amendment
as provided herein, with respect to any charge for a service shall be deemed to have satisfied his
or her obligation to pay the tax levied pursuant to Chapter 86, Article V. as amended herein, with
respect to that charge. The intent of this paragraph is to prevent the imposition of multiple taxes
upon a single utility charge during the transition period from the prior Utility User Tax ordinance
to the amended Utility User Tax ordinance (which transition period ends April 1,2013) and to
permit service providers or other persons with an obligation to remit the tax hereunder, during
that transition period, to satisfy their collection obligations by collecting either tax.

(c)	In the event that a final court order should determine that the election enacting this Chapter
86, Article V. (as amended herein) is invalid for whatever reason, or that any tax imposed under
this Chapter 86, Article V. (as amended herein) is invalid in whole or in part, then the taxes
imposed under Chapter 86, Article V. of this Code, as it existed prior to its amendment as
provided herein, shall automatically continue to apply with respect to any service for which the
tax levied pursuant to this Article has been determined to be invalid. Such automatic
continuation shall be effective beginning as of the first date of service (or billing date) for which
the tax imposed by this Article is not valid. However, in the event of an invalidation, any tax
(other than a tax that is ordered refunded by the court or is otherwise refunded by the City) paid
by a person with respect to a service and calculated pursuant to this Chapter 86, Article V. (as
amended herein) shall be deemed to satisfy the tax imposed under Chapter 86, Article V., as it
existed prior to its amendment as provided herein, on that service, so long as the tax is paid with
respect to a service provided no later than six months subsequent to the date on which the final
court order is published.

Sec. 86-168. Sunset Date.

Section 86-142(b) of this Article shall remain in effect only until December 31,2022. As of that
date, Section 86-142(b) is repealed unless an ordinance that is enacted on or before December

31,2022 that deletes or extends that date. Upon repeal of Section 86-142(b), the special tax of
1.75 percent will no longer be imposed on service users.

SECTION 2. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
the date that this Ordinance is approved by the voters of the City of Citrus Heights at the Election
of November 6,2012, as confirmed by the City Council’s declaration of the vote.

SECTION 3. Amendment or Repeal. Article V. of the Municipal Code may be
repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of the People. However, as required by
Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any amendment
provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance or extend the
sunset date of the special tax. The People of the City of Citrus Heights affirm that the following
actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

(a)	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this Ordinance,
if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax.

(b)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition applicable
to the tax, as long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some prior interpretation
or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this Ordinance.

(c)	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or excepted from the tax or the
discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the discontinuation of an
exemption or exception specifically set forth in this Ordinance).

(d)	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, even if the City had, for some period of
time, failed to collect the tax.

(e)	Amendments to effectuate the purpose of Article V. to ensure that taxes are imposed on all
services subject to the taxes at the rates imposed and to respond to changes in Federal and State
law, whether legislative, judicial, or administrative.

SECTION 4. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full
force and effect. The people hereby declares that they would have adopted each section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be
declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 5. Ratification of Prior Tax. The voters of the City of Citrus Heights
hereby ratify and approve the past collection of the Utility User Tax under Article V. of the
Municipal Code as it existed prior to the effective date of this Ordinance.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of Citrus Heights on November 6,

2012:

ADOPTED by Declaration of the vote by the City Council of the City of Citrus Heights on

_____,2012:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Jeff Slowey, Mayor

ATTEST:

Amy Van, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Ruthann G. Ziegler, City Attorney