CAYUCOS FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C-12

ORDINANCE NO. 2012-02

CALLING FOR AN ELECTION WITHIN THE CAYUCOS FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
(“DISTRICT”), SAN LUIS OBISPO COUNTY, FOR THE PURPOSES OF SUBMITTING TO
THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF THE DISTRICT THE PROPOSITION FOR REPEALING THE
PRIOR SPECIAL TAX AND APPROVING A NEW SPECIAL TAX FOR FIRE PROTECTION,
FIRE PREVENTION AND OTHER FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES RELATED TO THE
PROTECTION OF LIVES AND PROPERTY WITHIN THE DISTRICT

Section 1: Imposition of Special Tax. Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, a new
special tax to fund fire prevention and protection services is hereby imposed on every parcel of
land within the Cayucos Fire Protection District (District). The tax shall be imposed each fiscal
year by the District Board of Directors to furnish adequate fire prevention, fire protection, and
other services as provided in Section 2 of this Ordinance. The tax imposed by this Ordinance
shall be a tax upon each parcel of property, and the tax shall not be measured by the value of
the property.

Section 2: Special Tax Purpose. The proceeds of the Special Tax imposed by this Ordinance
shall be placed in a special fund for the purposes of obtaining, furnishing, operating and
maintaining fire department equipment and/or apparatus, real property and facilities, for fire
protection services, rescue services, emergency medical services, and other services,
including training, relating to the protection of lives and property, for paying salaries and
benefits to District personnel and for no other purpose.

Section 3: Special Tax Account. A special account shall be created in which the proceeds of
the Special Tax shall be deposited.

Section 4: Special Tax Report. The District’s Chief Financial Officer shall file an annual report
with the District Board of Directors no later than January 1 of the year following the election and
at least once a year thereafter, containing both of the following:

A.	The amount of the funds collected and expended; and

B.	The status of any projects or services authorized to be funded as identified
in Section 2 of this Ordinance.

Section 5: Special Tax Amount. Subsequent to the end of each fiscal year, but prior to
August tenth of the ensuing fiscal year, the Board of Directors at a public hearing, after
considering public input, shall determine the precise amount of the Special Tax to be levied
during the ensuing fiscal year, provided that such Special Tax will not exceed the maximum
amount set forth in Section 6 below without the approval of two-thirds of the voters of the
District voting on the question.

Section 6: Maximum Tax Amounts. The maximum amount of the tax imposed on each parcel
of real property within the District pursuant to this Ordinance shall be determined as follows:

A. Commencing fiscal year 2013/2014 a maximum special tax rate of Twenty-Five
Dollars ($25.00) per unit of benefit shall be imposed on each parcel in
accordance with the following schedule to be adjusted each year thereafter not
to exceed the increase authorized in sub-section B. below:

4 AC

PR-550-1

N SL 024-014

SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS

	Number of Benefit Units Per Parcel
All Vacant Lots	1 Unit Each
Single Family Residences	4 Units Each
Multiple Family Residences	4 Each Residential Unit
Motel Rooms, Sleeping Only	2 Units Per Room
Motel Rooms, Housekeeping	3 Units Per Space
Trailers & Mobile Homes	3 Units Each Space
Restaurants	10 Units Each
Delicatessens	6 Units Each
Retail Stores	4 Units Each
Banks	6 Units Each
Service Stations	6 Units Each
Laundry, Laundromats	10 Units Each
Public Buildings (Offices, Etc.)	4 Units Each Per Business
Rest Homes	4 Units Plus 2 Units For Each Additional Living Quarter
Car Washes	4 Units
Cocktail Lounges (Bars)	10 Units
Beauty Parlors	4 Units
Automotive Garages	6 Units
Auto Sales & Service	6 Units
Barns, Greenhouses, Etc.	2 Units

Example: As an example, a residential single family dwelling would be assessed four (4)
benefit units at $25,00 per unit for a total of $100.00 in the tax year 2013/2014.

B. Commencing fiscal year 2014-2015 and each fiscal year thereafter, the
special tax amounts specified by sub-section A above may be increased by
the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers in the Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside area published by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor, or any
successor to that index, increases in the twelve months prior to March of
the year in which the adjustment is made. The District Fire Chief shall
annually recalculate the maximum tax amounts pursuant to this sub-section
B. and shall give notice of that determination to the District Board of
Directors.

PR-550-2	N	SL	024-015

Section 7: Exemptions.

A.	To the extent required by California and Federal law the following parcels
shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this Ordinance:

1.	Parcels owned by federal or state governmental agencies;

2.	Parcels owned by local governmental agencies;

3.	Parcels exempt from taxation by the District pursuant to the laws or
constitutions of the United States and the State of California.

B.	Any person or entity claiming an exemption from the tax imposed by this
Ordinance shall file a verified statement of exemption on a form prescribed by the fire Chief
prior to June 30th of the first fiscal year for which the exemption is sought.

Section 8. Administration and Appeals. The District Fire Chief shall administer this
Ordinance. Appeals of any determination of the Fire Chief shall be submitted in writing to the
District Secretary not later than July 1st of the fiscal year for which the tax is imposed. The
District Board of Directors shall consider the appeal and issue a decision to the appellant in
writing.

Section 9. Amendment of Ordinance. The District Board of Directors is hereby authorized to
amend this Ordinance for the purpose of carrying out the general purposes of this Ordinance,
to conform the provisions of this Ordinance to applicable state law, to permit the County Tax
Collector or another public official to collect the Special Tax levied by this Ordinance in
conjunction with County taxes, or to re-assign the duties of public officials under this
Ordinance. In no event, however, may the District Board of Directors alter the provisions of
Sections 5 or 6, of this Ordinance without the approval of two-thirds of the voters of the District
voting on the question.

Section 10. Special Tax Election. Pursuant to the provisions of the Election Code and District
Resolution 2012-02, it is ordered that this Special Tax Election be conducted pursuant to the
uniform District Election Law commencing with Election Code § 10500 on November 6,2012.

1) Section 11. Consolidation of Special Tax Election. Pursuant to § 1055 of the
Election Code and District Resolution 2012-02, it is ordered that the Special Tax
Election be consolidated with such other elections to be held on November 6, 2012
under State law within the territory of the District, and shall be held and conducted,
and all other proceedings incidental to and connected with the election, shall be
regulated and done, in accordance with the provisions of law regulating regularly
scheduled elections. The precincts, polling places for said precincts in the County
of San Luis Obispo, and persons appointed and designated to serve as election
officers for said election will be those determined, designated, and appointed
pursuant to State law by the Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk of the County of San
Luis Obispo (the “Registrar”). The District, by Resolution, has requested that the
election be consolidated with the Statewide Election and that the Registrar conduct
the election as well as performs the various other services required by law on behalf
of the District. The District has determined the full text of the measure shall be
printed in the sample ballot booklet. The full text will also be posted and copies
available at the District Office and on the County Clerk-Recorder’s website and a
copy of the full text will be mailed to any voter upon request.

Section 12. Ballot Question. Pursuant to the California Elections Code, the abbreviated
statement of the proposition, as it appears on the ballot is as follows:

“Shall Measure C-12 be approved, which repeals the current 1982 Special Tax
and imposes a new Special Tax at twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per unit of
benefit, to be adjusted each year thereafter by the change in the consumer

PR-550-3

N SL 024-016

price index, for fire protection, rescue, emergency medical services, and other
services relating to the protection of lives and property, and for no other
purposes as provided in Ordinance 2012- 02”.

□	YES

□	NO

Section 13. Notice of Hearings. In the absence of state law specifying the procedures for
giving notice, notice of any public hearing held pursuant to this ordinance shall be given by
publishing twice pursuant to Government Code Section 6066 in at least one (1) newspaper of
general circulation within the District. This notice shall include the date, time, and place of the
public hearing, a general explanation of the matter to be considered, and a statement of where
additional information may be obtained.

Section 14: Collection of Special Tax. The Special Tax imposed by this ordinance shall be
collected by the San Luis Obispo County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and
shall be subject to the same penalties and appeal process, as property taxes collected by said
Tax Collector.

Section 15. Two-Thirds Approval; Effective Date. This Ordinance and the proposed Special
Tax Increase shall be effective only if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting thereon
and shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the District. The new Special
Tax, if approved, shall commence with Fiscal Year 2013/2014.

Section 16. Notice of Holding Election. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is
given and the District Secretary is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or
additional notice of the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

Section 17. Conduct of Special Tax Election. In all particulars not recited in this Ordinance,
the election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding Special Tax Elections.
The District Secretary shall make this Ordinance readily available for public inspection.

Section 18. Repeal of 1982 Special Tax. Upon approval of this Ordinance as provided in
Section 15 above, the 1982 Special Tax shall be repealed in its entirety.

Section 19. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of
this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of
this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect.

Section 20. Recitals. That the recitals set forth hereinabove are true, correct and valid.

Section 21. Effective date. This Ordinance and the proposed Special Tax Increase shall be
effective only if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting thereon and shall go into effect
ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the District. The new Special Tax, if approved, shall
commence with Fiscal Year 2013/2014.

a a r\

PR-550-4

N SL 024-017

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C-12

This measure is intended to determine whether the special tax currently levied within the
Cayucos Fire Protection District (“District") to fund fire prevention and protection services
should be repealed and a new special tax imposed for the purposes stated in the measure.

Article XIIIC of the California Constitution authorizes the adoption of a special tax for fire
protection services, rescue services, and emergency medical services within the District if
approved by two-thirds (2/3’s) of the qualified voters voting within the district. The Board of
Directors of the District (“the Board”) has determined that revenue from an existing special tax,
originally adopted and imposed by the District in 1982, to fund fire prevention and protection
services is inadequate to fund the present needs of the District for these services. For this
reason, the Board has determined that it is in the public’s interest and necessity to provide for
additional funding through the repeal of the existing tax and the imposition of a new tax to
provide for the funding of fire protection services, rescue services, emergency medical services
and other ancillary services related to the protection and preservation of lives and property
within the District.

In accordance with Article XIIIC, Section 2(d), of the California Constitution, the special tax
authorized by this measure will be imposed only if two-thirds (2/3’s) of the qualified voters
voting on the measure approve it. If the measure is approved, the existing special tax will be
repealed and, commencing fiscal year 2013-2014, a new special tax shall be imposed. The tax
to be imposed shall not exceed the annual rate of twenty-five dollars ($25) per benefit unit
based on real property land use, and may be increased annually thereafter only in accordance
with increases in the consumer price index, as provided in the measure. The number of units
of benefit applicable to the real property subject to the proposed new tax is set forth in the full
text of the measure. In accordance with the terms of the measure, the Board will determine the
precise amount of the tax to be levied during each ensuing fiscal year, provided that the tax
shall not exceed the maximum authorized by the measure. If the measure is approved, the
new special tax would be levied annually by the Board, and collected by the San Luis Obispo
County Tax Collector in the same manner, along with, at the same time, and will be subject to
the same penalties, as other property taxes collected by the Tax Collector.

A “yes” vote on this measure is a vote in favor of repealing an existing tax and imposing a new
tax for the purposes of providing fire protection and prevention services within the District.

A “no” vote on this measure is a vote against repealing an existing tax and imposing a new tax
for the purposes of providing fire protection and prevention services within the District.

s/WARREN R. JENSEN
County Counsel

A nr\

PR-550-5

N SL 024-018

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C-12

The highest function of local Cayucos Fire Department is to provide life safety and fire
protection to the people and property owners of Cayucos. This, of course, requires adequate
funding to supply the necessary equipment and personnel to address emergencies. A yes vote
will enable your local district to continue to provide those immediate need services, be they fire
or medical.

In 1982 the voters of Cayucos passed (with well over 2/3 majority) a “Special Tax" to fund the
continued operation of the fire department. Now, over 30 years later, we find the need to
request additional funding. We have been faced with not only a lot of inflation based increases
but also the need to augment our paid-call volunteer personnel with a value driven contract
with Cal Fire for full time staffing of their Cayucos station. We have had to rely on District cash
reserves to pay for the Cal Fire services delivered.

Timely response to an emergency is our highest priority and utilizing Cal Fire, to provide the
additional personnel necessary, has been a cost-effective measure to offset our volunteers not
being available 24-7.

Due to the financial constraints we are also faced with an equipment replacement problem. We
have needs to replace an engine and a rescue/utility vehicle immediately. We have foregone
those replacements to insure adequate trained personnel can respond to an incident.

This Board has reviewed alternative staffing and administrative possibilities, the least of which
would double the cost this measure requests. Please vote YES on ballot measure C-12.

si Bill Shea, Board President

s/ Chris Pope, Board Member

si Bob DuFosee, Board Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C-12 WAS SUBMITTED

PR-550-6

N SL 024-019