309

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General Election

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet
On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

PAGE

COUNTY MEASURES	
__ Shall an ordinance be adopted requiring producers of adult films to obtain K a County public health permit, to require adult film performers to use condoms while engaged in sex acts, to provide proof of blood borne pathogen training course, to post permit and notices to performers, and making violations of the ordinance subject to civil fines and criminal charges?	o o  t t  C/5 O >■  CM CO CO CO
LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY	
I Accelerating Traffic Relief, Job Creation, To advance Los Angeles 1 County's traffic relief, economic/job growth by accelerating light rail/ " subway construction and airport connections, within five years, not twenty; funding countywide freeway, bridge, safety and traffic flow improvements; fixing potholes; keeping senior, student, disabled fares low; Shai voter-approved one-half cent traffic relief sales tax continue without increase for a voters decide to end it, with independent audits and keeping funds local?	136	yes-*o  137	«0*O  Los Angeles County's nother 30 years or until
CITY  CITY OF COMMERCE SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION	
. . MEASURE AA. Shall the ordinance imposing a one-half of one A A percent (1/2%) transactions and use (sales) tax to offset severe *“* State budget cuts and provide funding for such things as police and fire services, repair, maintenance and improvement of streets, sidewalks, public facilities, parks, libraries and other City services, with all revenues staying in the City by a citizens' advisory panel and independently audited, be approved?	142	YES->o  143	no-*o  and spending reviewed

END OF BALLOT

06-006E

N LA 309-011

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE AA

Measure AA proposes to raise revenue to offset severe state budget cuts and
provide funding for such things as police and fire services, repair, maintenance
and improvement of streets, sidewalks, public facilities, parks, libraries and other
services in the City of Commerce. This list is illustrative and non-exclusive,
because this Measure is classified as a “general tax,” not a “special tax,” and may
be used for any valid municipal purpose. The revenue would be raised by
approving an ordinance enacting a one-half of one percent (Vi%) transactions
and use (i.e. “sales tax”) tax within the City. This tax on retail sales is paid by
non-residents as well as residents. If adopted, it will not go into effect until
April 1, 2013.

California Revenue and Taxation Code §7285.9 authorizes the City to levy or
increase a transactions and use (sales tax) tax for general purposes, if the
ordinance proposing the tax is approved by simple majority of the qualified
voters voting in the election. If approved, the tax would add a half-cent to the
price of an item that costs a dollar. Currently, the tax on retail sales that take
place in the City is 8.75% of the purchase price. The City of Commerce receives
only 1%. The remainder goes to the State (6.25%) and County of Los Angeles
(1.50%). The Measure would authorize a local Vz% transaction and use tax,
increasing the total sales tax rate to 9.25%. This tax revenue generated as a result
of the Measure would be deposited in the City’s general fund and would stay in
the City to support the full range of municipal services.

The proposed ordinance requires an annual audit by an independent auditor. An
oversight committee made up of City residents and business representatives will
also monitor and report on the expenditure of the tax revenues and make
recommendations to the City Council for use of the these revenues. The
committee’s report and recommendations shall be a matter of public record and
considered by the City Council at a public meeting.

Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and use tax” and
“transactions and use tax.” Retailers collect both taxes at the time of sale and
remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the taxes.
Both are levied on the retail sale or use of personal property, with certain
exceptions. A sales tax is allocated to the jurisdiction where the sale is negotiated
or the order for the sale is taken, but a transactions and use tax is allocated to the
City where the goods are delivered or placed into use. Merchandise purchased in
a “walk-in” retail store is assumed by the state to be used within the City in which
the store is located, unless the retailer is asked to ship the merchandise outside
the City as part of the sale or it is a motor vehicle that can be driven away.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905407-1

N LA 309-035

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE AA (Continued)

This Measure will be approved if it receives a simple majority of “Yes” votes.

EDUARDO OLIVO
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or Measure AA. If
you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the City of Commerce
City Clerk’s Office at 323-722-4805 (ext. 2253) and a copy will be mailed at no
cost to you.

PR-905407-2

N LA 309-036

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE AA

Vote yes on Measure AA to protect our community from devastating State cuts
that will impact the City of Commerce’s quality of life for years to come.

Our City is in the midst of a financial crisis that, if not addressed immediately,
will impact virtually every resident and business. The establishment of a Vi%
sales tax in the City of Commerce is the most responsible and appropriate way to
address this crisis in the short-term and long-term.

City leaders have been proactive in controlling costs by implementing strict
spending controls and by, reluctantly, eliminating employee positions, reducing
services and resident programs. We were forced to delay badly needed street and
sidewalk repairs and improvement projects. We responded properly to the bad
economic times that we have all been facing. But, just as things seemed like they
would get better for our City, the State and the Governor eliminated
redevelopment programs, which will likely take at least $50 Million in local funds
from the City, so that the State could use these funds to solve their own financial
problems. We had planned to use these funds for important development
projects and various programs for our senior citizens and our entire community.

Measure AA will help replace what the State has taken away and prevent
extreme reductions in essential City services and programs by providing a stable
source of local funding. 100% of Measure AA funds will stay in Commerce and
cannot be taken away by Sacramento politicians. The money must legally be used
in Commerce to protect our safety and quality of life.

Measure AA requires accountability. A citizens’ oversight committee, mandatory
audits and yearly reports to the community will ensure the funds are spent
properly.

We ask you to please vote YES on Measure AA.

LILIA R. LEON
Mayor

JOE AGUILAR
Councilmember

DENISE M. ROBLES
Councilmember

IVAN ALTAMIRANO
Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-905407-3

N LA 309-037