VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FORT ROSS SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE L

To provide funds to offset state revenue cuts, for support of

L quality academic programs, including reading, writing,
math, science and technology, enrichment activities such
as art, music and drama, retention of highly qualified
teachers, and library and student bus transportation services,
shall the Fort Ross Elementary School District be authorized to
levy $48.00 per parcel annually for eight years, provide a senior
citizens' exemption and have funds stay local and not be taken by
the State?

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

The Fort Ross Elementary School District has called an election on a special tax
measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

The District is proposing to levy a special tax of $48 per year on each parcel of tax-
able real property in the District, commencing on July 1,2013. The tax would be
levied for eight years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special account and could only be used
for the purposes set out in the measure, which include supporting the curriculum,
including reading, writing, math, science, and technology; improving computer and
science equipment; supporting enrichment programs such as art, music, athletics,
and drama; retaining highly qualified teachers; protecting the number of instruc-
tional days in the school year; and supporting library and school bus transportation
services for students,

Each year that tax funds remain unspent, the District's chief fiscal officer will pre-
pare and present a report to the Board of Trustees stating (1) the amount of tax
funds received and expended during the prior year, and (2) the status of any pro-
jects or description of any programs funded by the tax. The report must be filed by
December 31 of each year. These requirements are set out in the “Accountability
Measures" section of the Measure.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate bill for property taxes. Multiple parcels that are contiguous and are part of
one economic unit under the same name and ownership and that do not receive
separate tax bills would be charged as one parcel. Parcels which are exempt from
property tax, or on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from
this tax. The measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned
and occupied by (1) a person who is 65 years of age or older or (2) a person who re-
ceives Supplemental Security Income fora disability, regardless of age. The tax on
parcels classified as iimeshare properties will be charged to owners in proportion
to the percentage of the year owned.

If two-fhirds of the voters in the Fort Ross Elementary School District who vote on
this measure vote “yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied.
The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes.

BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
County Counsel

By: s/ Steven S. Shape

Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

The Fort Ross School District Board of Trustees, the School Site Council and
members of the community urge you to vote Yes on Measure L. The current
voter-approved parcel tax measure expires in June, 2013. This community funding
enables the school, founded in 1885, to provide a high quality educational program
even with severe state cuts to ils regular operating budget. Although there has
been excellent fiscal management of the school and significant cost savings have
been implemented, the ongoing state budget crisis and annual reductions in state
funding threaten the school’s ability to offer a well-rounded curriculum.

Because of tremendous community involvement, as well as the extra support gen-
erated by the current parcel tax, the school is able to provide all students with an
enriched curriculum including science laboratory experiences, up-to-date com-
puter technology, music instruction, drama, poetry, athletics, theater perfor-
mances, writing workshops, field trips and a well-stocked library. This
comprehensive program, in addition to the school’s focus on the core curriculum of
English, math and science, has resulted in consistently high scores on state tests.

Your Yes vote will provide a $48 per year parcel tax for eight years and help protect
and preserve the school's dynamic and family oriented programs. Parcel tax
money stays at the school; none of it may be taken by the state and the state may
not reduce its financial support because of the passage of a parcel tax. Senior citi-
zens are eligible for a waiver on their principal residence parcel. Owners of contigu-
ous parcels are eligible for a waiver on all but one parcel. A strong school with
excellent instruction in the basics and important enrichment programs builds solid
citizens for the future, benefits the entire community and sends our children the
message that education matters!

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure L

FORT ROSS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

si Jennifer Smallwood, President	s/William H. Seymour, Clerk

si Sharon Lynn, Trustee

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE L

53

9390

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L
EXHIBIT A

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

To provide iocal revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to aid in
maintaining public education in our schools, the Fort Ross Elementary School Dis-
trict proposes to levy and collect a qualified special parcel tax as described below
(see “SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES" below), and to implement accountabil-
ity measures in connection with the special parcel tax to provide oversight and ac-
countability to ensure that funds are used to:

•	Support the curriculum including reading, writing, math, science and technology

•	Improve computer and science equipment

•	Support enrichment programs such as art, music, athletics and drama

•	Retain highly qualified teachers

•	Help protect the number of instructional days in the school year; and

•	Support library and school bus transportation services for students

The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes listed
above, unless the Board of Trustees determines in any given year that changes in
student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding
make doing so unfeasible or inadvisable, in any event, the Board of Trustees will
not fund any program or reduction other than those listed above from the proceeds
of the special parcel taxes.

SPECIAL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Special Tax Generally. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the spe-
cial tax of $48.00 per parcel shall be levied and collected for a period of eight (8)
years, commencing July 1, 2013, and be collected by the Sonoma County Tax
Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to the same pen-
alties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the Sonoma County Tax Collector. However, with
respect to any parcel that is classified by the Sonoma County Assessor as a
timeshare property, for the purposes of levying and collecting the special tax
against such parcels, to the extent permitted by law such levy shall be set in
amount proportional to the percentage of the year owned by said timeshare.

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the ievy of the qualified
special tax.

*	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be ex-
empt from property taxes shail also be exempt from the parcel tax.

*	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shail be available to persons
who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence
a parcel subject to the parcel tax.

*	Supplemental Security Income Exemption. An exemption shall be
available to persons who receive Supplemental Security Income
(“SSI”) fora disability regardless of age, and own and occupy as a prin-
cipal residence a parcel subject to the parcel tax.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the
levy and collection of the special tax and exemptions, and any additional procedures
established by the Board of Trustees, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for
claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the spe-
cial parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by
the County shall be determined by the District, in coordination with the County as
necessary. The District’s Board ofTrustees shail adopt such additional or supplemen-
tal procedures as it deems necessary or convenient for the administration of the
qualified special tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Legally Required Accountability Measures, in accordance with the require-
ments of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following
accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special parcel taxes
levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special
parcel tax shall be only those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the
special parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above;
(c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the spe-
cial parcel taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made
by the District’s chief fiscal officer to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i)
the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes
and (ii) the status of any projects, programs, or purposes required or authorized to
be funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as identified above.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District
because of the District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are
reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special
parcel taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in orderto restore such State or
Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by ap-
proving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause
of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters
would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision
hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

54

9390