<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

Section 1. Title and Summary

This Ordinance shall be known as the “Fresno County Public Library Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance.” If approved by the voters, this Ordinance will impose a successor transactions and use tax, which will be the same as the current tax (which expires
Mar. 31, 2013), to be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
County, the proceeds of which are to be used exclusively for public library operations,
programs, acquisitions and library construction within the County. Such revenues shall
be used only to supplement existing funding for public libraries and shall not be used to
supplant existing funding for the support of public libraries.

Section 2. Submission to the Voters; Voter Approval; Operative Date.

This Ordinance is an ordinance calling for or otherwise relating to an election, and shall
therefore take effect immediately upon adoption by this Board. The provisions of this
Ordinance are to be submitted to the voters of the County for approval in order that the
successor transactions and use tax can become operative, as provided by Revenue and
Taxation Code section 7286.59. The tax submitted to the voters by this Ordinance will
therefore take effect only if at least two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure at
the November 6, 2012 election vote in favor of the measure. If approved by the voters,
the provisions of this Ordinance authorizing the levy of the one-eighth of one percent
(0.125%) transactions and use tax will become operative on the later of April 1, 2013
or the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of the State Board of
Equalization contract in accordance with Section 5 of this Ordinance.

Section 3. Provisions of Fresno County Ordinance Code Regarding Public
Library Transactions and Use Tax.

Effective on the date the successor tax becomes operative under Section 2 of this Or-
dinance, Sections 4.20.010 and 4.20.110 of Chapter 4.20 of Title 4 of the Fresno County
Ordinance Code are amended to read as follows:

Section 4.20.010. Purpose.

This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other, purposes and directs that
its provisions are interpreted to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a one-eighth of 1 percent (0.125%) retail transactions and use tax accord-
ing to the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, as specifically authorized by section 7286.59 of Chapter
2.98 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are consistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides
a measure for it that the State Board of Equalization can administer and collect in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California Sales and Use Taxes;

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a
manner which, to the greatest degree possible, will be consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, will reduce the cost of collect-
ing the transactions and use taxes and simultaneously will reduce the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that provides funding for public
library operations, programs, acquisitions and library construction within the County of
Fresno. Such revenues shall be used only to supplement existing expenditures for pub-
lic libraries and shall not be used to supplant existing funding for the support of public
libraries. For the purposes of this chapter, “existing funding” from the County of Fresno
for the support of the Fresno County Free Library shall be defined as the contribution
made from the County General Fund during the 1998-1999 fiscal year, adjusted annually
based on the annual increase of the Consumer Price Index - Urban, beginning April 1
of 2013 and services provided to the Fresno County Free Library, at no cost, by other
County departments as of April 1, 1999.

Section 4.20.110. Use of the Taxes.

A.	The proceeds of any and all transactions and use taxes collected under this chapter
shall be used exclusively for public library operations, programs, construction, and ac-
quisition, within the County of Fresno. Such revenues shall be used only to supplement
existing expenditures for public libraries and shall not be used to supplant existing fund-
ing for the support of public libraries.

B.	There are two public library entities within this County: the Fresno County Free Li-
brary, a dependent special district of the County, organized pursuant to Education Code
section 19100 et seq., and the Coalinga-Huron Library District, an independent special
district, organized pursuant to Education Code section 18300 et seq. (hereinafter col-
lectively “the Libraries”). The Libraries shall share the total transactions and use tax
revenues collected Countywide. Their respective shares shall be determined by their
proportions of the total population of the County, as certified on or before June 1, 2012,
June 1,2016, June 1 2020, and June 1,2024 by the State Librarian, pursuant to Educa-
tion Code section 18021.

C.	The proportions as of the June 1, 2012 certification shall be used from the operative
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter through June 30, 2016. The proportions as
of the June 1, 2016 certification shall be used from July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2020.
The proportions as of the June 1, 2020 certification shall be used from July 1, 2020
through June 30, 2024. The proportions as of the June 1,2024 certification shall be used
through the end of the tax.

If Education Code section 18021 is repealed or amended so as to delete the State
Librarian’s responsibility to certify population, the Libraries shall agree on an alternate
source for the 2016, 2020 and 2024 determinations of their respective shares of County-
wide population.

D.	If Education Code section 18021 is repealed or amended so as to delete the State
Librarian’s responsibility to certify population, the Libraries shall agree on an alternate
source for the 2016, 2020 and 2024 determinations of their respective shares of County-
wide population.

Section 4. Expenditure Plan.

After the reimbursement of the County for the cost of the election pursuant to Section
6 of this Ordinance and for any fee charged by the State Board of Equalization for
preparing to administer the tax pursuant to Section 5 of this Ordinance, the specific
projects for which the revenues from the transactions and use tax will be expended
as follows:

1.	Preserving existing libraries, and continuing the current open hours, and increas-
ing open hours further where possible at branches operated by the Fresno County
Free Library and the Coalinga-Huron Library District;

2.	Keeping qualified librarians; maintaining services for children, seniors and the
blind; continuing reading clubs for children and teens to encourage reading and
improve literacy programs;

3.	Strengthening education at our local schools and offering young people after-
school and weekend programs, providing them with a safe alternative to joining
gangs;

4.	Continuing to replace worn and out-of-date books and materials, and continuing to
add new books and other materials as needed by the Fresno County Free Library
and the Coalinga-Huron Library District to serve their residents;

5.	Continuing the current programs and services, and expanding programs and ser-
vices further, for children, teens and adults at the Fresno County Free Library and
the Coalinga-Huron Library District;

6.	Continuing the locally funded literacy services at the Fresno County Free Library;

7.	Continuing to implement or improve technologies to deliver efficient programs and
services that are of benefit to the residents of the County;

8.	Maintaining local public libraries throughout the County;

9.	Constructing new libraries or remodeling and expanding existing libraries through-
out the County;

10.	Paying ongoing administrative expenses of the State Board of Equalization and
the County’s election expenses for another successor tax, if one is placed on the
ballot.

Section 5. Contract with State.

Before April 1, 2013, the County will contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and
use tax Ordinance; provided, that if the County has not contracted with the State Board
of Equalization before April 1,2013, it will nevertheless reach such an agreement, with
the operative date of the contract being the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of the contract. The Libraries will reimburse the County from the revenues
of the tax for any separate fee charged by the State Board of Equalization for preparing
to administer the tax, according to their initial proportions of total Countywide population
as set forth in Section 3 above.

The County Librarian is hereby authorized and directed, without further action by the
Board of Supervisors, to execute any and all contracts and other documents which may
be required by the State Board of Equalization in regard to the administration of the tax
by the State Board of Equalization, which authority and direction shall continue as long
as the State Board of Equalization has any duties in regard to the tax.

Section 6. Election Costs.

Payment for the costs of the election shall be the responsibility of the County. If the
election is successful, the Libraries will reimburse the County for these costs from the
revenues of the tax, according to their initial proportions of total Countywide population
as set forth in Section 3 above.

Section 7. Implementing Policies and Regulations.

Upon approval of this Ordinance by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure, the
Libraries may adopt policies and regulations and take such other action consistent with
this Ordinance as may be necessary for the implementation of the one-eighth of one
percent (0.125%) transactions and use tax authorized by this Ordinance.

Section 8. Termination Date.

This Ordinance will terminate on the later of March 31, 2029, or 16 years after the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of the State Board of Equaliza-
tion contract in accordance with Section 5 of this Ordinance.

Section 9. Severability.

If any provision of this Ordinance or its application to any person or circumstance is
held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance and the application of such provision to
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.

Operational Service Delivery Plan
2013-2029

1.	Branch Hours of Service.

Continue to more than double the hours of service from 1996-97, offering over 70,000
hours per year. The hours at each location would continue, as in the past, to be based
on population, use, and number of community-based activities. At this level of access,
library service would continue to accommodate multiple types of programs for children;
convenient open hours of access for all customers; literacy activities; programs for teens,
adults, and seniors; bookmobile hours to visit senior centers in the county; and activities
in support of independent learning particularly in support of job training. Computers with
high-speed access to the Internet, the Library’s catalog and research tools, plus desktop
productivity software will be available in all locations.

At each location the specific hours open each day would be determined in consultation
with community library staff and schedules will be flexible to meet community needs as
they change

2.	Service to Children, Teens and Seniors.

Specific services in this area will continue to include in-library story hours for preschool-
ers and toddlers; school age programs; visits to classrooms, particularly annual visits to
kindergarten classes; group visits from schools; coordination with teachers at all loca-
tions; Family Place sites; coordination of technology to improve service to children and
teens; bookmobile service to senior centers; homework help; in-library reading activities
for teens and teen outreach activities promoting reading to community centers; and en-
hanced library material collections for children, teens and seniors.

3.	Literacy Services.

Literacy services in Fresno County will continue with local funding from this tax measure.
Until fiscal year 2010-11, Library-based literacy services in Fresno County were partially
funded under the California Library Literacy Services program. Through the literacy pro-
grams, such as English-as-a-Second-Language (ESL), adult literacy, and family literacy, the Library will continue to add more books to collec-
tions, recruit and train volunteer tutors, provide one-to-one tutoring for adults in reading,
writing, spelling and basic math, and help parents with low levels of literacy to nurture a
love of reading and learning in their children.

4.	Library Book and Materials Collections.

The service plan will acquire books and other materials at a level eight times that of
1996-97 local funding. These new books and materials will replace current items that
are old, worn or out-of-date. Sufficient quantities of materials will be added to keep pace
with the growing population and to particularly focus on children, teens and seniors
in our service area. The Library will continue to offer innovative programs and servic-
es that capitalize on the latest trends and technologies in libraries including bestseller
collections, e-books, online downloadables, music, movies, etc. Materials will support
self-directed learning, provide curriculum support that aligns with local public schools
thereby helping to strengthen education, and will reflect the popular interests of the
Fresno County communities.

5.	Library Facilities Maintenance and Operations.

To operate and maintain the current 34 library buildings and two bookmobiles at the
doubled hours of operation, appropriations for services, the increase in supplies and
maintenance staff will continue. The Library owns 22 buildings; while critical deferred
maintenance issues were addressed in the first years of Measure B, other projects loom
including regular re-carpeting and painting and ADA accommodations and earthquake
safety modifications. For the leased facilities (12), rental rates have generally been so
low that owners cannot make needed improvements and still receive a positive return.

6.	New and Remodeled Libraries.

Over the last several years the Library has become the defacto community center in
many areas in Fresno County. It is considered a safe place for children and families and
is seen as providing an alternative to joining gangs for our young people. Remodeling
and new facility projects will be conducted with the goal of achieving a welcoming at-
mosphere for all ages, with comfortable seating, infrastructure for current and emerging
technologies, meeting rooms and quiet rooms, areas specifically designed for teens
and children, and programming spaces. Staff workspaces will be designed to maximize
efficiencies.

Sales tax funding will help to begin meeting the needs identified in the Long Term
Facilities Plan adopted by your Board in February 2003. Matching local funds will ensure
that sufficient funds are available for a maximum number of projects and to capture any
state or federal funding which may become available.

7.	New and Replacement Equipment.

New and replacement equipment will be purchased to house, preserve and secure col-
lections. Special emphasis will be placed on equipment which improves the productivity
of staff.

8.	Technology.

Access to technology continues to be an important issue for the customers of Fresno
County. Funding will allow staff to research and learn new technologies and translate
that knowledge into staff efficiencies and improved or new services and programs for
the public, including group and one-on-one workshops, online tutorials and high-speed
access to the Internet.

The Library will continue to invest in workforce and computer literacy initiatives that uti-
lize technology so county residents are competitive in the job market, can engage and
interact through social media, and can seek current information on any topic of interest
or need. <fullend>










<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

State law authorizes a county board of supervisors to propose a special countywide
sales tax (“transactions and use tax”) for public library construction, acquisition, pro-
grams and operations within the county. The tax proposal may be at the rate of either
0.125 or 0.25 percent for up to 16 years. The board of supervisors may propose a tax in
any succeeding period, at either rate, for up to 16 years.

In 1998, the Fresno County Board of Supervisors proposed, and the voters approved, a
special library sales tax at the rate of 0.125 percent for 7 years. The tax became opera-
tive April 1, 1999 and was to expire March 31,2006.

In 2004, the Fresno County Board of Supervisors proposed, and the voters approved,
a successor special library sales tax at the rate of 0.125 percent for 7 years. This tax
became operative April 1, 2006 and will expire on March 31, 2013.

The Fresno County Board of Supervisors recently adopted Ordinance No. 12-011, which
would impose a successor tax on the same terms as the existing ordinance, 0.125 per-
cent for 16 years, if two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure approve. With voter
approval, the successor tax would become operative April 1,2013 and expire March 31,
2029. Because the tax would succeed an expiring tax at the same rate, the sales tax
rate in Fresno County would not change if the voters approved this tax.

The tax revenues would be shared by the two public library entities in Fresno County
according to their proportions of County population. About 97 percent would go to the
Fresno County Free Library, and about 3 percent to the Coalinga-Huron Library District.
The ordinance provides that adjustments for any change in population proportions would
occur periodically, in 2016, 2020, and 2024.

The proceeds from this tax could only be used for public library purposes, and could
only be used to supplement, not supplant, existing funding or services for the support
of public libraries. The specific expenditure plan in the ordinance calls for the following
activities:

1.	Continuing current open hours; increasing open hours where possible.

2.	Continuing current programs and services and expanding them; maintaining
services for children, seniors and the blind, reading clubs and after-school and
weekend programs for children and teens; continuing literacy services at the
County library;

3.	Continuing replacing worn or out-of-date books and materials, adding new
books, materials; implementing or improving technologies for delivering effi-
cient programs and services;

4.	Maintaining, remodeling and expanding existing libraries; constructing new li-
braries.


The tax revenues would reimburse the County’s election costs and pay fees charged by
the state to administer the tax.

The Board of Supervisors and the governing board of the Coalinga-Huron Library Dis-
trict would be responsible for specific expenditures of their respective shares of the tax
revenues, under general laws governing each entity. The Citizens Review Panel already
established by the Board of Supervisors to monitor County Library expenditures would
continue to do so for the continuing tax. <impartialend>








<impartialsigs> s/ Kevin B. Briggs County Counsel <impartialsigsend>











<fiscal> FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT

This ballot measure is to extend the current Retail Transaction and Use Tax in the
incorporated and unincorporated as of Fresno County at the rate of one-eighth of one-
percent (0.125%), which expires on March 31, 2013. The State Board of Equalization
will continue to administer this sales tax if approved by at least two-thirds of the electors
voting on the measure.

This ordinance will generate approximately thirteen million five hundred thousand
($13,500,000) annually with the growth of this revenue generally following-the economic
trends within the local community.

The revenue from the Public Library Transactions and Use Tax will be used exclusively
for Public Library Services within the County of Fresno. This tax will terminate on March
31,2029 or sixteen (16) years after the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of the State Board of Equalization contract in accordance with the provisions
of the Transaction and Use Tax Ordinance. <fiscalend>









<fiscalsigs> s/ Vicki Crow, Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax Collector <fiscalsigsend> 










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Since 1998, Fresno libraries have been funded by the voter approved Measure B.
Measure B makes up 54% of Fresno County library funding and protects the librar-
ies against the volatility of the State and County budgets. Measure B protects Fresno
County’s urban and rural libraries by keeping the money local and out of the hands of
Sacramento politicians.

Measure B allows our local libraries to continue playing a vital-role in educating our
children, and offering after school and weekend programs that provide a safe alternative
to gangs. Reading clubs, computer access and tutoring programs are just a few of the
benefits that Fresno County libraries offer to our families and our children. In addition to
fostering education, Measure B also allows libraries to continue services to our seniors
and the blind in Fresno County and helps maintain qualified librarians to administer
these programs.

Without Measure B, libraries will experience shortened hours and library closures.
State slashed education funding every year makes Measure B even more vital to the
education of our children.

Measure B is a voter approved Measure that needs to be continued. Fresno County
citizens have an opportunity to protect the services provided by libraries and keep these_
funds local by voting YES on Measure B.

Public libraries are one of the few important community centers left that benefit children, families and seniors. This Measure will help make sure that we will continue to
have access to this valuable resource. <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/ Sheriff Margaret Mims

s/ Sally M. Caglia, Business Woman

s/ Jose Flores, Mayor, City of Clovis

s/ Larry Powell, Superintendent of Schools
Fresno County Office of Education <favorsigsend>









<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT FOR

Unemployment and foreclosures are especially high in our area. Higher Sale Taxes hurt
the poor and middle class more so than the wealthy.

Along with the $9.2 Billion State Tax increases, rising State Sales Tax, the expensive
High Speed Rail and Water Projects, we cannot afford a local Library Sales Tax for an-
other 16 years, which duplicates the function of our schools.

When supporters first pitched the present Library Sale Tax in 1998, they said they need-
ed more taxes to allow libraries to remain open for more hours, but soon after being
approved they added another paid holiday. And last year when County workers went on
strike, library employees joined them.

Mismanagement during the last few years have some libraries opening less than before,
and their Administration wasted $15,000 to create a Mascot they soon scrapped be-
cause it frightened children. If County Libraries had to manage on the over $26.5 million
from the County Budget, in addition to hundreds of thousands in Grants and donations,
they would manage their money more wisely.

This new tax calls for more classes in English as a Second Language, yet they don’t
have an American Flag for the Pledge of Allegiance in their downtown classroom.

There are no studies or evidence, but only wishful thinking that this library tax will pre-
vent gangs. Strong parenting is the solution.

Help get America back on track and vote “NO” because there are more important ways
to spend our tax dollars. <rebutfavorend>









<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Chloe E. Foster, Housewife <rebutfavorsigsend>









<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST

The County estimates this library sales tax extension will cost the public $13.5 million
each year for the next 16 years. Our libraries receive about $40 million yearly when you
their Grants and Donations are included. Spending millions on an Institution that is rap-
idly going the way of the typewriter, newspaper and VHS is wasteful. Fewer and fewer
people use the library for researching information or checking out books. To justify more
funding, libraries offer many free and non-essential social service programs such as folk
dancing, music, entertainment, chess, beading and numerous other activities, which
should be paid for by the user and not by the taxpayer. In this highly technical society,
libraries for the most part, are becoming obsolete. When was the last time you used the
library for it’s intended purpose?

There are many ways to better spend $13.5 Million in taxes. At the top of the list is
opening our beautiful new Veterans Home in Fresno to provide much needed care and
jobs for our deserving citizens, or opening another wing of the county jail to prevent the
early release of criminals back into our neighborhoods. As a comparison, the City of
Fresno recently spent $11 million for 70 new Fresno apartments for the homeless.

Many cannot afford all the planned State tax increases coming soon and struggle to
pay their bills, put food on the table and gas in their cars. Taxpayers shouldn’t have to
pay between $120,000 and $160,000 to put this measure back on the ballot again. This
money could be used more wisely maintaining parks and keeping our community swim-
ming pools open for our youth.

Please vote “NO” against this unnecessary tax. <againstend>









<againstsigs> s/ Chloe E. Foster, Housewife <againstsigsend> 








<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST

The library is the center for seniors, families and others to gather in all our communities. Fresno County libraries also offer safe and familiar places for our children. The
fundamental function of the library is to bring the community together and to foster the
education of our youth.

In this difficult economy libraries play a key role, offering the unemployed job search
programs and resume writing classes. Young struggling families use the library for com-
puter access and training. In fact, since the economic downturn, Fresno libraries have
had an increase of more than one million visitors. Regardless of the economy, the library
is always there for everyone.

The main purpose of the library, improving child and adult literacy and providing edu-
cational resources, is crucial to the future welfare of our communities. Literacy and
education are more important today than ever, and studies show early literacy services
contribute to economic success for everyone.

During this time of difficult budget decisions Fresno County citizens decided to fund the
library system through a self-imposed 1/8 cent sales tax which is the equivalent to approximately $12 per year for the average citizen. Since then, the library has proven to
be a responsible steward of our tax dollars. This measure is more important now since
all State funding was eliminated and the Library only receives an average of $200,000
in grants and donations annually.

Please protect and maintain one of the cornerstones of our community, Fresno County
libraries, by voting yes to renew Measure B. <rebutagainstend>








<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Deborah J. Nankivell, CEO, Fresno Business Council
s/ Blong Xiong, Acting Council President
s/ Dr. John Welty, President, California State University, Fresno
s/ Luis Santana, Executive Director, Reading and Beyond <rebutagainstsigsend>


