<summar>

Gross Receipts Tax

Shall the City: create a gross receipts tax designed to eliminate or reduce
the tax on payroll costs; and increase business registration fees?

Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee

The Way It Is Now: The City requires businesses to pay
a flat 1.5% tax on payroll costs for work performed in
the City. Small businesses with less than $250,000 in
payroll costs are exempt from the tax.

The City also requires businesses to pay an annual
registration fee ranging from $25 to $500.

The Proposal: Proposition E would create a new City
business tax based on gross receipts rather than pay-
roll costs. Under the new system, the tax on payroll
costs would be eliminated or reduced.

Businesses with gross receipts of less than $1 million
annually would be exempt from the gross receipts tax.
The $1 million threshold would be adjusted each year
to account for inflation.

The gross receipts tax rates would vary depending on
the type of business and its annual gross receipts
from its activity in the City. Generally, businesses with
higher gross receipts would pay higher rates.The rates
would range from 0.075% to 0.650%.

Certain businesses that have their headquarters or
administrative offices in San Francisco, but operate
primarily in other locations, would pay the gross
receipts tax based on payroll costs.The tax rate for
these businesses would be 1.4% of payroll costs.

Proposition E would require the City to phase in the
gross receipts tax, and phase out the tax on payroll
costs, over a five-year period beginning in 2014. Each
year, the Controller would increase the gross receipts
tax and decrease the tax on payroll costs according to
a formula that would maintain business tax revenue.
The final rates would depend on the revenue the City
receives from the gross receipts tax.

If the gross receipts tax revenue exceeds the revenue
the City would have received under the tax on payroll
costs, then the tax on payroll costs will be phased out
and the final gross receipts rates will be lower than
the maximum submitted in this measure.

If the gross receipts tax revenue never equals the rev-
enue the City would have received under the tax on
payroll costs, then the tax on payroll costs will be
reduced but not phased out. In that event, businesses
would pay taxes based on both payroll costs and
gross receipts.

Proposition E would increase annual business regis-
tration fees. These fees would range from $75 for
small businesses to $35,000 for businesses with more
than $200 million a year in gross receipts. The fees
also would be adjusted each year to account for
inflation.

Proposition E would establish penalties for failure to
properly register a business.

A "YES" Vote Means: If you vote "yes," you want the
City to create a gross receipts tax designed to elimi-
nate or reduce the tax on payroll costs. You also want
the City to increase business registration fees.

A "NO" Vote Means: If you vote "no," you do not want
the City to create a gross receipts tax designed to elimi-
nate or reduce the tax on payroll costs. You also do not
want the City to increase business registration fees.

Controller's Statement on "E"

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the follow-
ing statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition E:

Should this ordinance be approved by the voters, in
my opinion, it would generate additional net annual
revenue from business taxes and registration fees to
the City of approximately $28.5 million beginning in
fiscal year 2013-14, and growing at approximately the
rate of inflation in subsequent years. Revenues from
the business tax and registration fees can be spent for
any public purpose.

The proposed ordinance would replace the existing
tax which is 1.5% of a business' payroll with a tax on a
business' gross receipts at rates that vary by the size
and type of business.The new tax structure would be
phased-in over a five year period and at the end of the

This measure requires 50%+1 affirmative votes to pass.

Arguments for and against this measure immediately follow.The full text begins on page 126.
Some of the words used in the ballot digest are explained on page 53.

period the gross receipts tax rates would remain fixed.
The new tax structure is projected to generate annual
tax revenues equal to what would have been gener-
ated under the existing tax structure plus the amount
of the additional administrative cost of the new
system.

The existing business registration fee structure would
be replaced by a new higher graduated registration fee
structure that would generate a net revenue increase
to the City of approximately $28.5 million beginning in
fiscal year 2013-14 and growing at approximately the
rate of inflation in subsequent years.

Total business tax and registration fee revenues are
estimated to be approximately $450 million in fiscal
year 2012-2013 and are the City's second largest
General Fund revenue source.

The proposed gross receipts tax would apply to busi-
nesses with $1 million or more in gross receipts, and
the $1 million threshold would be adjusted by the
Consumer Price Index going forward. The ordinance
would increase the number and types of businesses in
the City that pay business tax and registration fees
from approximately 7,500 currently to 15,000 under
the new structure. The ordinance would convert most
existing payroll tax exclusions into gross receipts tax
exclusions of the same size, terms and expiration
dates.

<summaryend>







<favor>

Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition E

Prop E Means Fair Business Taxes, More Good Jobs
and Better City Services

San Francisco's current business payroll tax is funda-
mentally unfair because it is a tax on jobs instead of a
tax on sales or profits.

That means now, every time a local business hires a
new employee, its taxes increase — a huge disincen-
tive to creating new jobs in San Francisco.The current
payroll tax is a flat tax, so the biggest corporations
and most profitable industries now pay the same rate
as small neighborhood businesses and struggling
startups.

Proposition E fixes our unfair tax system and replaces
it with one that will help small businesses and start-
ups create more jobs. Prop E also will provide a more
predictable and steady source of revenue to fund key
public safety, affordable housing and public health
programs and may even allow us to restore recent
cuts to MUNI service.

Prop E is fair because it only applies the gross receipts
tax to businesses with more than $1 million in annual
sales, exempting most small businesses, sole propri-
etors and small residential property owners.

An extraordinarily broad coalition, led by Mayor Ed
Lee, Board President David Chiu and Supervisor John
Avalos, crafted the Prop E reform. Prop E is endorsed
by: every member of the Board of Supervisors; the
San Francisco Labor Council; the San Francisco
Chamber of Commerce; San Francisco Firefighters; sf.
citi, the organization of local tech employers; SFMade,
the coalition of San Francisco-based small manufac-
turers, and the Chinese Chamber of Commerce.

Vote YES on Prop E.

<favorend>





<favorsigs>

Mayor Edwin M. Lee
David Chiu, President;

Board of Supervisors
John Avalos
David Campos
Carmen Chu
Malia Cohen
Sean Elsbernd
Mark Farrell
Jane Kim
Eric Mar
Christina Olague

Scott Wiener Board of Supervisors

<favorsigsend>







<rebutfavor>

Rebuttal to Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition E

Prop E: MORE Taxes, MORE City Hall Waste, HIGHER
Prices and FEWER Jobs

Proposition E, a 60-page, $28.5 million tax increase
rushed onto the ballot just before the deadline, pro-
poses a gross receipts tax as "fairer" (as if govern-
ment taking more money is fair).

Proponents are correct; the current payroll tax discour-
ages job creation. When you tax something, you get
less of it. Proposition E acknowledges this by exempt-
ing businesses with under $1 million in gross receipts.

But medium and large companies employ thousands
of San Franciscans. Yet E wants to tax receipts so com-
panies pay ever higher percentages as they succeed.
By this City Hall effectively says it doesn't want busi-
nesses to grow and stay._

The mayor and Supervisors complain the current tax
"provides unstable revenue" But rather than replace

the flat payroll tax with a flat gross receipts tax bring-
ing in equal revenue (a measure we wouldn't oppose)
City Hall got greedy with Proposition E. If E passes
they might be surprised how unstable revenues can
be if businesses leave rather than sticking around to
be fleeced.

Taxes on business don't just affect rich people. They
are passed on to the public in the form of higher prices,
lower wages, and fewer jobs. That means people buy-
ing everything from Giants tickets to milk will pay.

Politicians benefit from distributing funds to their
friends, letting YOU pay the bills. Tell City Hall you
want REAL tax reform, not an imposter. Vote NO on E.

<rebutfavorend>




<rebutfavorsigs>

Libertarian Party of San Francisco


<rebutfavorsigsend>







<against>

Opponent's Argument Against Proposition E

Libertarians oppose Proposition E, which replaces the
gross payroll tax with a gross receipts tax.

One of the arguments for this change is that the gross
payroll tax is a tax on hiring employees which reduces
employment.The proponents of Proposition E are
explicitly recognizing that taxing an economic activity
will reduce it.Therefore, a tax on gross receipts will
reduce gross receipts in SF Businesses will waste
valuable resources trying to move activity out ofThe
City, instead of producing goods and services custom-
ers want to buy. Reducing gross receipts will indirectly
reduce employment just as sure as gross payroll tax
since money paid in taxes is not available to be used
to hire employees.

The gross receipts tax is estimated to raise more reve-
nue for the government than the gross payroll tax.

This is an economic drain on the private sector that
we cannot afford in hard times. In the private sector
business and households earn revenue by providing
goods and services that other people want to pay for.
Governments raise revenue by confiscation and
threats of violence. In the private sector there is a real
relationship between revenue earned and wealth cre-
ated, but in the public sector there is no such relation-
ship. Compensation in the public sector soars out of

control because the payers cannot easily cut off the
flow of money. Vote NO on Proposition E.

<againstend>








<againstsigs>

Libertarian Party of San Francisco

<againstsigsend>








<rebutagainst>

Rebuttal to Opponent's Argument Against Proposition E

San Francisco's Small Businesses and Startups
Support Prop E

San Francisco's business community has led the effort
to reform the City's business tax structure and elimi-
nate the payroll tax, which taxes the wages of busi-
nesses' San Francisco workers and discourages busi-
nesses from hiring additional employees in San
Francisco.

Prop E replaces the payroll tax with a gross receipts
tax - a tax on gross sales, not jobs.

Local business leaders support Prop E because it
stands for:

EMPLOYMENT. Prop E means more jobs for San
Franciscans. By replacing San Francisco's payroll tax,
the impartial City Controller's analysis says Prop E will
create thousands of new jobs.

EXEMPTING SMALL BUSINESS. Under Prop E, only
businesses that earn more than $1 million in gross
receipts annually will pay the tax.

ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Prop E will provide additional
funding for vital services, such as police and fire pro-
tection, affordable housing, MUNI service and neigh-
borhood economic development.

Vote YES on E for fairer business taxes and better City
services.

<rebutagainstend>








<rebutagainstsigs>

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
Chinese Chamber of Commerce
San Francisco Council of District Merchants
sf.citi, the Citizens Initiative forTechnology and
Innovation

SFMade, Supporting and Promoting San Francisco

Manufacturing

SPUR

<rebutagainstsigsend>







<paidfavor>

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

YES on E for Business Tax Reform

For over forty years San Francisco's principal source of
business taxes has been the Payroll Tax, a tax that
hinders job creation.

This year business, labor and City Hall have come
together with a consensus reform that will phase out
the Payroll Tax, replacing it with a progressive Gross
Receipts Tax. It raises the same money the city now
receives, broadens the tax base, giving many existing
taxpayers a small tax reduction.

New revenue will be raised through the first adjust-
ment to the business license fee in over thirty years;
money that can be used for economic development,
affordable housing, infrastructure improvements and
job creation.

Vote YES on E for employment and economic devel-
opment

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Proposition E will help create much-needed jobs in
San Francisco and makes our city more competitive
with other localities for new and expanding businesses.

Vote YES on Proposition E.

San Francisco Republican Party
www.sfgop.org

Executive Committee
Harmeet K. Dhillon, Chairman
Rodney Leong, VC Special Events
Alisa Farenzena, VC Volunteer Activities
Howard Epstein, VC Communications
Sarah Vallette, VC Political Affairs
Rich Worner, Treasurer

Members

Michael J. Antonini
Brooke Chappell
Stephanie Jeong
David Kiachko

Alternate

Christopher L. Bowman

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Republican Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. Sarah Vallette, 2. William G. Bowen, 3. Harmeet
Dhillon.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Prop E Creates Jobs & Protects Our City Services
Community and Labor Groups Support Prop E

The last several years have seen dramatic hits to our
city's essential services due to budget cuts at the local,
state and national level.

As a city, San Francisco must find new ways to create
affordable housing, improve Muni and protect public
health services.

Prop E is the result of a diverse coalition of communi-
ty leaders coming together in search of solutions.

By replacing our current payroll tax with a gross
receipts tax, we will create thousands of San Francisco
jobs and generate the revenue we need to improve
our communities.

Join the Progressive Revenue Coalition (which
includes Jobs with Justice, Coleman Advocates for
Children and Youth, Chinese Progressive Association,
Coalition on Homelessness, San Francisco Labor
Council, OPEIU 3, AFT 2121 and IFPTE 21) in voting Yes
on Prop E.

Yes on E

Progressive Revenue Coalition

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes and Better City
Services.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. San Francisco Firefighters, Local 798, 2. San
Francisco Police Officers Association, 3. Ron Conway.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Prop E Delivers Jobs

Board of Supervisors President David Chiu Supports
Prop E

Prop E is supported by a wide and diverse consensus
coalition that includes small businesses, labor, com-
munity groups, and the entire San Francisco Board of
Supervisors.

We all came together and created Prop E as the solu-
tion to our unfair tax system.

Our current business payroll tax is unfair because it is
a tax on jobs instead of a tax on profits. A new

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.



employee hired by a small business shouldn't lead to
an automatic tax increase.

Prop E changes that by taxing profits instead of jobs,
generating critical revenue for affordable housing,
police, fire, public health and Muni.

Join us. Support Yes on Prop E.

Board of Supervisors President David Chiu

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes and Better City
Services.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. San Francisco Firefighters Local 798, 2. San
Francisco Police Officers Association, 3. Ron Conway.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Vote for LANDMARK BUSINESS TAX REFORM -Vote
for PROP E!

This November, we finally have the opportunity to fix
our archaic tax system-which penalizes job growth
and exempts too many large corporations from paying
their fair share.

Along with the new business tax. Prop E includes a
business registration fee that will create a new and
growing revenue stream, enabling the City to:

help our struggling schools
preserve our neighborhood parks
improve Muni

assist small businesses and strengthen job training
programs, and

keep working families in San Francisco.

Prop E will protect small businesses, encourage job
growth, and bring in new revenue so that all commu-
nities can be part of the City's economic recovery!

Prop E is a progressive and fair tax. It is the product of
an unprecented consensus among a broad array of
community, labor and business stakeholders.

Please join me in voting for Prop E!

John Avalos, District 11 Supervisor

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Avalos for SF DCCC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: I.Tom Ammiano, 2. Angela Alioto, 3. Susan
Sandler.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Prop E makes good economic sense.

San Francisco's Republican Party supports Prop E.

We need to improve the environment for businesses
to thrive in our city. Prop E is a step in the right direc-
tion for San Francisco.

Our current business payroll tax is a disincentive for
companies to hire new workers. It is time to act in
favor of our businesses and stop taxing jobs.

Join the Republican Party and vote YES on Prop E.

San Francisco Republican Party

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes and Better City
Services

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. San Francisco Firefighters, Local 798, 2. San
Francisco Police Officers Association, 3. Ron Conway.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

San Francisco Restaurant Owners Support Prop. E

Creating jobs is the number one priority of San
Franciscans.

Prop. E replaces an unfair payroll tax which punishes
job creators with a more fair gross receipts tax. We
need to tax total profits and not jobs created.

Vote Yes on Prop. E to support small businesses and
create jobs.

YES ON E!

Golden Gate Restaurant Association

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Golden Gate Restaurant Association PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1.Yellow Cab Cooperative, Inc., 2. Golf Made
Simple, 3. Mass Mutual Financial Group.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Affordable Housing Leaders Support Prop E.

We must do something about San Francisco's afford-
able housing shortage.

By passing Prop E, we can generate necessary
revenue to build more affordable housing for all San
Franciscans.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Prop E will create more jobs AND increase essential
services like affordable housing.

The Council of Community Housing Organizations
(CCHO) includes the following organizations: Asian
Neighborhood Design, Bernal Heights Neighborhood
Center, Chinatown Community Development Center,
Community Design Center, Community Housing
Partnership, Conrad House, Dolores Street Community
Services, Episcopal Community Services, Housing
Rights Committee of San Francisco, Mercy Housing,
Senior Action Network , South of Market Community
Action Network, Tenants and Owners Development
Corporation, Tenderloin Neighborhood Development
Corporation, Treasure Island Homeless Development
Initiative

Vote Yes on Prop E

Council of Community Housing Organizations

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes and Better City
Services.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. San Francisco Firefighters, Local 798, 2. San
Francisco Police Officers Association, 3. Ron Conway.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Prop E is Good for theTech Community
Growing Technology Companies Support Prop E

SF is the tech capital of the world. Prop E ensures
homegrown startups create great jobs here in
San Francisco, not elsewhere. It fixes our business
tax, so the next generation of successful SF business-
es can keep hiring. Plus, Prop E generates critical
revenue essential services like safety, health services
and even MUNI.

SF Citi represents a group of 300 technology compa-
nies across San Francisco

Vote YES on E.

SF Citi

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes and Better City
Services.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. SF Firefighters Local 798, 2. Police Officers
Association, 3. Ron Conway.



Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Time to improve SF business taxes

For years, San Francisco's payroll tax has sent the
wrong message by taxing job creation. The payroll tax
is volatile and disproportionately impacts small busi-
nesses with large numbers of employees. Exclusions
in recent years have helped to retain some businesses,
but this trend of governing by exception has to stop.

San Francisco needs businesses to not only start here,
but to stay and grow. Prop. E is a step in the right direc-
tion. A gross receipts tax is the most common business
tax among large cities in California and may be compli-
cated, but will also be more fair - businesses will pay
more as they earn more. Small businesses earning less
than $1 million will be exempt from the tax.

Prop. E is the result of a process involving hundreds of
different stakeholders.There are certainly winners and
losers in this transition, but the average business will
receive a reduction as more businesses become
payers. With an updated business license fee struc-
ture, Prop. E will also generate new revenues for
important programs such as a proposed HousingTrust
Fund, public transit and other city services.

SPUR strongly recommends voting YES on E.

For our full analysis of the measure, see www.spur.org.
SPUR

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes and Better City
Services.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. San Francisco Firefighters, Local 798, 2. Police
Officers Association, 3. Ron Conway.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Prop E is all about creating jobs.

Alliance for Jobs and Sustainable Growth Supports
Prop E

We advocate for a strong and sustainable economy
providing jobs to the men and women who need them
most.That is why we are supporting Prop E.

Our current business payroll tax is unfair because it is
a tax on jobs instead of a tax on sales or profits. Every
new employee for a small business means a new tax
increase.

Prop E will protect local jobs for those that need them
most. Prop E will make our tax system fair by only

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

applying the gross receipts tax to businesses with
more than $1 million in annual receipts.

Let's help our small businesses hire local employees.

Vote YES on Prop E

Alliance for Jobs and Sustainable Growth

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes and Better City
Services.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. San Francisco Firefighters, Local 798, 2. San
Francisco Police Officers Association, 3. Ron Conway.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

South of Market Business Association urges you to
vote YES on E to support small businesses and
growing start-ups!

Yes on E

South of Market Business Association

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes & Better City
Services.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. San Francisco Firefighters Local 798, 2. Police
Officers Association, 3. Ron Conway.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Prop E Creates Jobs

Supervisor Eric Mar Supports Prop E

San Francisco must support our small businesses and
develop incentives to create more local jobs.

Prop E will eliminate the tax on jobs and help our
small businesses succeed, in the Richmond and across
our great city.

Prop E will also generate revenue for affordable
housing, police, fire, public health and Muni.

I'm proud to support Prop E.

Join me in voting Yes on E.

Supervisor Eric Mar

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Re-elect Eric Mar.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. SheilaTully, 2. Dennis Kelly, 3. Hene Kelly.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

San Francisco Democratic Party Supports Prop E

San Francisco Democrats are united around the need
to create more jobs.

It is time to replace our payroll tax with a gross
receipts tax.This will remove the current tax on jobs
that punishes employers for hiring new workers.

Prop E will also lead to critical new revenue for our
city.This will allow us to protect and improve essential
services like public health, affordable housing. Muni,
police and firefighters.

Join the San Francisco Democratic Party and a broad
coalition of small businesses, labor unions, neighbor-
hood and community organizations in supporting
Prop E.

Vote YES on E

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes and Better City
Services.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. San Francisco Firefighters, Local 798, 2. San
Francisco Police Officers Association, 3. Ron Conway.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Prop E Brings Jobs to our Communities
Chinese-American Community & Small Business
Leaders Support Prop E

Prop E will bring more jobs and opportunities to our
community.

Chinese community and small business leaders
support Prop E.

Prop E will stop taxing businesses for creating jobs. It
will create a more fair local tax system that exempts
small businesses and only applies taxes to companies
that generate more than $1 million in annual receipts.

Prop E will help minority owned businesses and those
seeking quality jobs within our communities.

Vote Yes on E.

Chinatown Merchants Association & Chinese Chamber
of Commerce

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes & Better City
Services.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. SF Firefighters, Local 798, 2. SF Police Officers
Association, 3. Ron Conway.

EU

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

LGBT Community Leaders Agree: Yes on Prop E

It's time to fix San Francisco's payroll tax system,
which punishes small businesses for creating jobs.
Measure E exempts most small businesses, small resi-
dential property owners and sole proprietors. Under
Prop E, businesses will pay based on profits, or
receipts, instead of jobs.

Prop E is endorsed by a broad coalition including
small businesses and neighborhood and community
organizations because it will help SF small businesses
create jobs and fund essential services like police, fire-
fighters, public health and MUNI.

Vote YES on E.

Rafael Mandelman, Former President, Harvey Milk
Democratic Club*

Reese Aaron Isbell, Current Co-Chair, Alice B. Toklas
Democratic Club*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans for FairTaxes and Better City
Services.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. San Francisco Firefighters, Local 798, 2. San
Francisco Police Officers Association, 3. Ron Conway.

End of Paid Arguments IN FAVOR of Proposition E

<paidfavorend>






No Paid Arguments AGAINST Proposition E Were Submitted








<full>

ARTICLE XVII: DEFINITIONS

For all purposes of this Charter, the following terms shall have
the meanings specified below:

“Business day” shall mean any day other than a Saturday,

Sunday or holiday on which governmental agencies are authorized by
law to close.

“Confirm” or “confirmation” shall mean the approval by a
majority of the members of the Board of Supervisors.

“Discrimination” shall mean violations of civil rights on account
of race, color, religion, creed, sex, national origin, ethnicity, age,
disability or medical condition, political affiliation, sexual orientation,
ancestry, marital or domestic partners status, gender identity, parental
status, other non-merit factors, or any category provided for by
ordinance.

“Domestic partners” shall mean persons who register their
partnerships pursuant to the voter-approved Domestic Partnership
Ordinance.

“Elector” shall mean a person registered to vote in the City and
County.

“For cause” shall mean the issuance of a written public statement
by the Mayor describing those actions taken by an individual as a
member of a board or commission which are the reasons for removal,
provided such reasons constitute official misconduct in office.

“General municipal election” shall mean the election for local
officials or measures to be held in the City and County on the Tuesday
immediately following the first Monday in November in odd-numbered
years, every year until and including 2015. Thereafter. “general
municipal election " shall mean the election for local officials or mea-
sures to be held in the City and County on the Tuesday immediately fol-
lowing the first Monday in November in all even-numbered years and
in every fourth year following 2015.

“Initiative” shall mean (1) a proposal by the voters with respect
to any ordinance, act or other measure which is within the powers
conferred upon the Board of Supervisors to enact, any legislative act
which is within the power conferred upon any other official, board,
commission or other unit of government to adopt, or any declaration of
policy; or (2) any measure submitted to the voters by the Mayor or by
the Board of Supervisors, or four or more members of the Board.

“Notice” shall mean publication in an official newspaper (as
defined by ordinance), and a contemporaneous filing with the Clerk of
the Board of Supervisors or other appropriate office.

“One-third,” “a majority” or “two-thirds” of the Board of
Supervisors or any other board or commission of the City and County
shall mean one-third, a majority or two-thirds of all members of such
board or commission.

“Published” shall mean published in an official newspaper of the
City and County.

“Referendum” shall mean the power of the voters to nullify ordi-
nances involving legislative matters except that the referendum power
shall not extend to any portion of the annual budget or appropriations,
annual salary ordinances, ordinances authorizing the City Attorney to
compromise litigation, ordinances levying taxes, ordinances relative to
purely administrative matters, ordinances necessary to enable the Mayor
to carry out the Mayor’s emergency powers, or ordinances adopted pur-
suant to Section 9.106 of this Charter.

“Special municipal election” shall mean, in addition to special
elections otherwise required by law, the election called by (1) the
Director of Elections with respect to an initiative, referendum or recall,
and (2) the Board of Supervisors with respect to bond issues, election
of an official not required to be elected at the general municipal elec-
tion, or an initiative or referendum.

“Statewide election” shall mean an election held throughout the

state.

“Voter” shall mean an elector who is registered in accordance
with the provisions of state law.

Proposition E

Ordinance amending the Business and Tax Regulations Code to: 1)
enact a new Article 12-A-1 (Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance) to
impose a gross receipts tax and an administrative office tax on per-
sons engaging in business activities in San Francisco; 2) amend
Article 12-A (Payroll Expense Tax Ordinance) to reduce business
payroll expense tax rates based on the amount of gross receipts tax
collected under Article 12-A-l (Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance); 3)
amend Article 12 (Business Registration Ordinance) to establish
business registration fees based on gross receipts and amend the
current business registration fees to generate approximately $28.5
million in estimated additional revenue; 4) amend Article 12-A
(Payroll Expense Tax Ordinance) to add a sunset date to the sur-
plus business tax revenue credit; and 5) amend Article 6 (Common
Administrative Provisions) to establish requirements for filing a tax
return under Article 12-A-l (Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance), estab-
lish penalties for non-filing, and amend the requirements for filing
payroll expense tax returns and penalties for non-filing to conform
to the new gross receipts tax.

NOTE: Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman:
deletions are strike-through italics Times New Roman.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of
San Francisco:

Section 1. The Planning Department has determined that the
actions contemplated in this Ordinance comply with the California
Environmental Quality Act (California Public Resources Code Section
21000 et seq.). Said determination is on file with the Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors in File No. 120681 and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Section 2. Pursuant to Article XIIIC of the Constitution of the
State of California, this Ordinance shall be submitted to the qualified
electors of the City and County of San Francisco, at the November 6,
2012 consolidated general election.

Section 3. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code is hereby amended by adding Article 12-A-l to read as follows:

SEC. 950. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

The voters hereby find and declare as follows:

1.	San Francisco is the only major city in California that levies
its entire business tax on payroll expense. This exclusive payroll-based
tax discourages iob creation and economic growth, lowers wastes, and
provides an unstable revenue stream.

2.	San Francisco currently charges a flat rate on its payroll
expense tax base. Instituting a tiered rate structure, in which busi-
nesses are taxed based on their gross receipts, will better distribute the
tax burden according to a business's ability to pay.

3.	Gross receipts is the most common business tax base among
California's largest cities.

4.	Amending San Francisco's business tax system to include a
gross receipts tax will promote revenue stability by diversifying the tax
base.

5.	The rate schedules and the small business exemption for busi-
nesses with receipts under $1.000.000 provide particular tax relief to
small businesses.

6.	The legislation will gradually phase in the new gross receipts
tax over a five-year period, beginning in tax year 2014. to allow busi-
nesses time to adjust to the change and to minimize the risk to the City
and to taxpayers of instability in City revenues during the transition
from the payroll expense tax to a gross receipts tax.

7.	Also beginning in tax year 2014. the payroll expense tax will
be adjusted, over the same period, in increments that are consistent
with the phase in of the gross receipts tax.

8.	Each year during the phase-in period, the formula dictates an
increase in the gross receipts tax rate and an adjustment in the payroll
expense tax rate that is expected to reduce the payroll expense tax rate
to z.ero by or before 2018. The Controller will calculate the annual
increase in the gross receipts tax rate and the adjustment in the payroll
expense tax rate by applying formulas specified in this legislation.

SEC. 951. SHORT TITLE.

This Article shall be known as the “Gross Receipts Tax
Ordinance ” and the tax this Article imposes shall be known as the
“Gross Receipts Tax.”

SEC. 952. DEFINITIONS.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the terms used in
this Article shall have the meanings given to them in Sections 6.2-1 et
sea, of Article 6 and in Article 12-A.

SEC. 952.1. ADVANCE PAYMENT.

“Advance payment” means a nonrefundable payment for the
purchase of property or services to be delivered or performed in the
future.

SEC, 952,2, CASH DISCOUNT,

“Cash discount” means a deduction from the invoice price of
goods or charge for services which is allowed if the bill is paid on or
before a specified date, or paid in cash rather than by credit card.

SEC. 952.3. GROSS RECEIPTS.

(a)	uGross receipts” means the total amounts received or
accrued by a person from whatever source derived, including, but not
limited to. amounts derived from sales. services. dealings in property,
interest, rent, royalties, dividends, licensing fees, other fees, commis-
sions and distributed amounts from other business entities. Except as
otherwise specifically provided in this Article, gross receipts includes
but is not limited to all amounts that constitute gross income for federal
income tax purposes. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this
Article, sross receipts includes all receipts, cash, credits and property
of any kind or nature and including any amount for which credit is
allowed by the seller to the purchaser, without any deduction therefrom
on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used,
labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, losses or any other
expense whatsoever, except that cash discounts allowed or taken on
sales shall not be included as sross receipts. Gross receipts, including
advance payments, shall be included in a taxpayer's gross receipts at
the time such receipts are recognized as sross income for federal
income tax reporting purposes.

(b)	“Gross receipts” with respect to any lease or rental shall
include payment for any services that are part of the lease or rental,
whether received in money or otherwise, that are paid to. on behalf of.
or for the benefit of. the lessor, and all receipts, cash, credits, property
of any kind or character and the fair market value of services so paid
or rendered by the lessee.

(c)	Treatment of Taxes. “Gross receipts” shall not include the
amount of any federal. state, or local tax imposed on or with respect to
retail sales whether imposed upon the retailer or upon the purchaser
and regardless of whether the amount of tax is stated as a separate
charge, or such part of the sales price of any property previously sold
and returned by the purchaser to the seller which is refunded by the
seller by way o f cash or credit allowances given or taken as part pay-
ment on any property so accepted for resale. Gross receipts shall also
not include any federal, state or local tax imposed upon a person for
which that person is reimbursed by means of a separately stated charge
to a purchaser, lessee, licensee or customer. Gross receipts shall not
include any amount of third-party taxes that a taxpayer collects from or
on behalf of the taxpayer's customers and remits to the appropriate
governmental entity imposing such tax. Gross receipts shall not
include any tax refunds received by a verson from a governmental
entity. Gross receipts shall include any federal, state or local tax not

specifically excluded in this subsection.

(d)	“Gross receipts” shall not include any amount received from
or charged to any person that is a related entity to the taxpayer. Nor
shall sross receipts include any grants received from 2Qvernmental
entities or any sifts. Gross receipts shall not include any investment
receipts. uInvestment receipts” includes interest, dividends, capital
sains. other amounts received on account of financial instruments. and
distributions from business entities, provided such items are directly
derived exclusively from the investment of capital and not from the sale
of property other than financial instruments, or from the provision of
services, to any person. Gross receipts also shall not include any allo-
cations of income or sain, or distributions (such as dividends, interest
and other returns on capital) from an entity treated as a pass-through
entity for federal income tax purposes, provided such allocations or
distributions are derived exclusively from an investment in such entity,
and not from any other property sold to. or services provided to. such
entity. Any sross receipts of a pass-through entity which is subject to
the gross receipts tax shall not also constitute sross receipts o f any
owner of that entity.

(e)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a). “ sross
receipts” from the sale or exchange of stocks or other similar written
instruments evidencing a right to participate in the assets of any busi-
ness. or of bonds or other evidence of indebtedness, or of any other
marketable securities (collectively referred to in this Article as “finan-
cial instruments”), or of any real property, shall not include the cost to
acquire the financial instruments). or real property, sold or otherwise
exchanged or converted. Nor shall “gross receipts ” include the
amount received by the original issuer of a financial instrument in
exchange for such issuance. To the extent that any loss on the sale or
exchange of financial instruments reduces the sross income of a person
for federal income tax purposes in the year the loss is incurred, that
loss shall reduce sross receipts from the sale or exchange of financial
instruments, but in no event shall those receipts be less than z.ero. and
in no event may any such loss be carried back or carried forward to
reduce sross receipts in a tax year other than that in which the loss was
incurred.

(f)	No person shall be deemed to be engaging in business in the
City if that person is an individual whose only sross receipts within the
City are derived from investments of that individual's own funds in
financial instruments. Gross receipts of an individual shall not include
interest, dividends, capital gains and similar items or investment
income earned from the investment of that individual's own capital.

(g)	For purposes of this Article and Article 12. and notwith-
standing Section 6.2-12 of Article 6. no person shall be deemed to be
engaging in business within the City if its activities in the City consist
solely of one or more of the following:

(1)	contracting with, acting through, or otherwise using
the services of. any investment advisor or affiliate thereof which is not
a related entity:

(2)	maintaining documents of formation, incorporation, or
registration within the City:

(3)	being an owner, member, or other participant in an
entity engaging in business within the City which is a pass-through
entity for federal income tax purposes: or

(4)	having trustees or directors who meet or reside within

the City.

SEC. 952.4. NAICS CODE.

“NAICS code ” means the numerical classification for business
activities established in the North American Industry Classification
System used by federal governmental agencies to classify business
establishments: references in this Article to particular numerical
NAICS codes are intended to apply the definitions and descriptions
adopted in that system as of the effective date of this Article.

SEC. 952.5. RELATED ENTITY.

A person is a “related entity ” to a taxpayer if that person and
the taxpayer are permitted or required by the California Franchise Tax

Board under Section 25102 et seq. of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code, or any successor, to have their income reflected on the
same combined report. For purposes o f this Article, if two or more
persons derive gross receipts solely from sources within California, and
their business activities are such that. if conducted both within and out-
side California, a combined report would be required under the
California Revenue and Taxation Code. or any successor. then those
persons are related entities regardless of whether they file a combined
report under the California Revenue and Taxation Code, or successor.

SEC. 952.6. SALE AND SELL.

uSale” and usell” mean the making of any transfer of title, in
any manner or by any means whatsoever. to property for a price, and
to the serving, supplying or furnishing. for a price, of any property fab-
ricated or made at the special order of consumers who do or who do
not furnish directly or indirectly the specifications or materials therefor.
A transaction whereby the possession of property is transferred but the
seller retains the title as a security for the payment of the price shall
likewise be deemed a sale.

SEC. 953. IMPOSITION OF GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.

(a)	Except as otherwise provided under this Article. the City
imposes and every person engaging in business within the City shall
pay an annual gross receipts tax measured by the person’s gross
receipts from all taxable business activities attributable to the City. A
person’s liability for the gross receipts tax shall be calculated accord-
ing to Sections 953.1 through 953.7.

(b)	The gross receipts tax is a privilege tax imposed upon per-
sons engaging in business within the City for the privilege o f engaging
in a business or occupation in the City. The gross receipts tax is
imposed for general governmental purposes. Proceeds from the tax
shall be deposited in the City's general fund and may be expended for
any purposes of the City.

(c)	The voters intend by adopting this measure to authorize
application of the gross receipts tax in the broadest manner consistent
with the provisions of this Article and the requirements of the
California Constitution, the United States Constitution. and any other
applicable provision of federal and state law.

(d)	The gross receipts tax imposed under this Article is in addi-
tion to the payroll expense tax imposed under Article 12-A. Persons
not otherwise exempt from the gross receipts tax or payroll expense tax
shall pay both taxes. Persons exempt from either the gross receipts tax
or payroll expense tax. but not both. shall pay the tax from which they
are not exempt.

(e)	Except for subsection (d) of this Section. the tax on
Administrative Office Business Activities imposed by Section 953.8 is
intended as a complementary tax to the gross receipts tax, and shall be
considered a gross receipts tax for purposes o f this Article.

(f)	For a five year period beginning in 2015. the Treasurer.
Controller. and Chief Economist shall jointly prepare an annual report
to the Mayor and Board of Supervisors on the implementation of the
measure. The report shall include projections of collections of the
gross receipts tax, compare these projections to those anticipated in
preparation of the measure, and outline impacts of the measure on San
Francisco’s economy and business community. The report may recom-
mend policy, administrative, or technical changes for the consideration
of the Mayor and Board of Supervisors that further the goals estab-
lished in the measure.

SEC. 953.1. GROSS RECEIPTS TAX APPLICABLE TO RETAIL
TRADE: WHOLESALE TRADE: AND CERTAIN SERVICES.

(a)	The base gross receipts tax rate provided by this Section is
applicable to the business activities of retail trade, wholesale trade,
and certain services. Commencing on the operative date of the Gross
Receipts Tax Ordinance, the Controller shall compute the tax rate in
accordance with Section 959. but the base tax rate provided by this
Section is:

0.075% (e.g.. $0.75per $1.000) for gross receipts between $0

and $1.000.000

0.100% (e.g.. $1 per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$1.000.001 and $2.500.000

0.135% (e.g.. $1.35 per $1,000) for gross receipts between
$2.500.001 and $25.000.000

0.160% (e.g.. $1.60per $1.000) for gross receipts over
$25.000.000

(b)	Retail trade includes the activity of retailing any type of per-
sonal property, generally without significantly transforming its charac-
teristics, and rendering services incidental to the retail sale of prop -
ertv: it includes business activity described in NAICS codes 44 and 45.

(c)	Wholesale trade includes the activity of wholesaling prop-
erty. generally without transformation. and rendering services inciden-
tal to the sale of property on a wholesale basis: it includes business
activity described in NAICS code 42.

(d)	Certain services includes the repair and maintenance ser-
vices. personal and laundry services, and religious, grantmaking, civic,
professional and similar organizations that are not otherwise exempt: it
includes business activity described in NAICS codes 811. 812 and 813.

(e)	The amount of gross receipts from retail trade activities and
from wholesale trade activities subject to the gross receipts tax shall be
one-half of the amount determined under Section 956.1 plus one-half of
the amount determined under Section 956.2.

(f)	The amount of gross receipts from certain services activities
subject to the gross receipts tax shall be the total amount determined
under Section 956.2.

SEC. 953.2. GROSS RECEIPTS TAX APPLICABLE TO
MANUFACTURING: TRANSPORTATION AND WAREHOUSING:
INFORMATION; BIOTECHNOLOGY; CLEAN TECHNOLOGY;
AND FOOD SERVICES.

(a)	The base gross receipts tax rate provided by this Section is
applicable to the business activities of manufacturing. transportation
and warehousing, information. biotechnology. clean technology. and
food services. Commencing on the operative date of the Gross Receipts
Tax Ordinance, the Controller shall compute the tax rate in accordance
with Section 959. but the base tax rate provided by this Section is:

0.125% (e.g.. $1.25 per $1.000) for gross receipts between $0
and $1.000.000

0.205% (e.g.. $2.05 per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$1.000.001 and $2.500.000

0.370% (e.g.. $3.70per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$2.500.001 and $25.000.000

0.475% (e.g.. $4.75 per $1.000) for gross receipts over
$25.000.000

(b)	Manufacturing includes the activity of transforming
materials, substances or components into new products by mechanical,
physical or chemical means: it includes the activity o f assembling com-
ponent parts of manufactured products: it includes business

activity described in NAICS codes 31. 32 and 33.

(c)	Transportation and warehousing includes the activities of
providing transportation of passengers and/or goods, warehousing and
storage for goods, scenic and sightseeing transportation, and support
activities related to modes of transportation: it includes business
activity described in NAICS codes 48 and 49.

(d)	Information includes producing and distributing information
or cultural products: providing the means to transmit or distribute
those products: and processing data: it includes business activity
described in NAICS code 51.

(e)	For purposes of this Article, biotechnology includes the
activity of biotechnology business as defined in Section 906.1 of Article
12-A. and clean technology includes the activity of clean
technology business as defined in Section 906.2 of Article 12-A.

(f)	Food services includes the activity of preparing meals,
snacks and/or beverages to customer order for immediate on-premises
or off-premises consumption: it includes drinking places: it includes
business activity described in NAICS code 722.

(g)	The amount of gross receipts from all business activities

described in this Section subject to the gross receipts tax shall be one-
half of the amount determined under Section 956.1 plus one-half of the
amount determined under Section 956.2.

SEC. 9533. GROSS RECEIPTS TAX APPLICABLE TO
ACCOMMODATIONS; UTILITIES; AND ARTS ,
ENTERTAINMENT AND RECREATION.

(a)	The base gross receipts tax rate provided by this Section is
applicable to each of the following business activities: accommoda-
tions; utilities; and arts. entertainment and recreation. Commencing
on the operative date of the Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance, the
Controller shall compute the tax rate in accordance with Section 959.
but the base tax rate provided by this Section is:

0300% (e.g.. $3 per $1.000) for gross receipts between $0 and
$1.000.000

0.325% (e.2.. $3.25 per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$1.000.001 and $2.500.000

0.325% (e.2.. $3.25per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$2.500.001 and $25.000.000

0.400% (e.2.. $4 per $1.000) for gross receipts over $25.000.000

(b)	Accommodations includes the activity of providing lodgim?
or short-term accommodations for travelers, vacationers, or others: it
includes business activity described in NAICS code 721.

(c)	Utilities includes the activities of the generation, transmis-
sion and distribution of electric power, the distribution of natural gas,
the provision and distribution of steam supply, the treatment and distri-
bution of water supply, and the removal of sewage: it includes business
activity described in NAICS code 22: it excludes establishments pri-
marily engaged in waste management services.

(d)	Arts, entertainment and recreation include the activity of
operating facilities or providing services to meet cultural, entertain-
ment or recreational interests of customers or patrons: it includes busi-
ness activity described in NAICS code 71.

(e)	The amount of gross receipts and from accommodations sub-
ject to the gross receipts tax shall be the total amount of gross receipts
derived from or related to properties located or used within the City.

(f)	The amount of gross receipts from utilities subject to the
gross receipts tax shall be one-half of the amount determined under
Section 956.1 plus one-half of the amount determined under Section
956.2.

(g)	The amount of gross receipts from arts, entertainment and
recreation subject to the gross receipts tax shall be the total amount
determined under Section 956.2.

SEC. 953.4. GROSS RECEIPTS TAX APPLICABLE TO PRIVATE
EDUCATION AND HEALTH SERVICES: ADMINISTRATIVE
AND SUPPORT SERVICES: AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS
ACTIVITIES.

(a)	The base gross receipts tax rate provided by this Section is
applicable to the business activities of private education and health
services, and administrative and support services. This rate also
applies to all business activities not otherwise exempt and not else-
where subjected to a gross receipts tax rate or an administrative office
tax by this Article. Commencing on the operative date of the Gross
Receipts Tax Ordinance, the Controller shall compute the tax rate in
accordance with Section 959. but the base tax rate provided by this
Section is:

0.525% (e.g.. $5.25 ver $1.000) for gross receipts between $0
and $1.000.000

0.550% (e.g.. $5.50per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$1.000.001 and $2.500.000

0.600% (e.g.. $6per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$2.500.001 and $25.000.000

0.650% (e.g.. $6.50 per $1.000) for gross receipts over
$25.000.000

(b)	Private education and health services include the activity by
persons other than governmental agencies of providing instruction and
training in any subject, or of providing health care or social assistance

for individuals: it includes business activity described in NAICS codes
61 and 62.

(c)	Administrative and support services includes the activity of
performing routine support activities for the day-to-day business activi-
ties of others: it includes business activity described in NAICS code 56.

(d)	The amount o f gross receipts from all business activities
described in this Section subject to the gross receipts tax shall be deter-
mined under Section 956.2.

SEC. 953.5. GROSS RECEIPTS TAX APPLICABLE TO
CONSTRUCTION.

(a)	The base gross receipts tax rate provided by this Section is
applicable to the business activity of construction. Commencing on the
operative date of the Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance, the Controller
shall compute the tax rate in accordance with Section 959. but the base
tax rate provided by this Section is:

0.300% (e.g.. $3 per $1.000) for gross receipts between $0 and
$1.000.000

0350% (e.g.. $3.50 per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$1.000.001 and $2.500.000

0.400% (e.g.. $4 per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$2.500.001 and $25.000.000

0.450% (e.g.. $4.50per $1.000) for gross receipts over
$25.000.000

(b)	Construction includes the activity of preparing sites for, sub-
dividing land for, or working on. buildings or engineering projects
(including highways and utility systems): it includes business activity
described in NAICS code 23.

(c)	The amount of gross receipts from construction subject to
the gross receipts tax shall be one-half of the amount determined under
Section 956.1 plus one-half of the amount determined under Section
956.2. The amount of gross receipts so determined shall then be
reduced by any amounts which were included in a person $ gross
receipts within the City pursuant to Section 956.1. and which that ver-
son paid to a subcontractor possessing a valid business registration
certificate with the City during the tax year. There shall be no reduc-
tion for any other costs, including without limitation costs for materi-
als. fees, equipment, or other services. In order to claim such a reduc-
tion. a person must maintain an itemiz.ed schedule of payments to sub-
contractors and information sufficient to enable the Tax Collector to
verify that the subcontractor possessed a valid business registration
certificate with the City.

SEC,953,6, GROSS RECEIPTS TAX APPLICABLE TQ
FINANCIAL SERVICES: INSURANCE: AND PROFESSIONAL.
SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL SERVICES.

(a)	The base gross receipts tax rate provided by this Section is
applicable to the business activities o f financial services: insurance:
and professional, scientific and technical services. Commencing on the
operative date of the Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance, the Controller
shall compute the tax rate in accordance with Section 959. but the base
tax rate provided by this Section is:

0.400% (e.g.. $4 per $1.000) for gross receipts between $0 and
$1.000.000

0.460% (e.g.. $4.60 per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$1.000.001 and $2.500.000

0.510% (e.g.. $5.10per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$2.500.001 and $25.000.000

0.560% (e.g.. $5.60per $1.000) for gross receipts over
$25.000.000

(b)	Financial services includes the activities of engaging in or
facilitating financial transactions: it includes business activities
described in NAICS codes 521. 522 and 523.

(c)	Insurance includes the activities of facilitating or supporting
the pooling of risk by underwriting insurance and annuities: the activi-
ties covered by this Section include those of persons not exempt from
the gross receipts tax based on business activities described in NAICS
code 524.

(d)	Professional. scientific and technical services includes the
activity of providing for others. specialized professional, scientific, or
technical services that require a hish degree of expertise and trainins:
it includes business activity described in NAICS code 54.

(e)	The amount of 2ross receipts from the activities described in
this Section subject to the gross receipts tax shall be the amount deter-
mined under Section 956.2.

SEC. 953.7. GROSS RECEIPTS TAX APPLICABLE TO REAL
ESTATE AND RENTAL AND LEASING SERVICES.

(a)	The base sross receipts tax rate provided by this Section is
applicable to the business activities of real estate and rental and leasing
services. Commencing on the operative date of the Gross Receipts Tax
Ordinance, the Controller shall compute the tax rate in accordance with
Section 959. but the base tax rate provided by this Section is:

0.285% (e.s.. $2.85 per $1.000) for sross receipts between $0
and SI.000.000

0.285% (e.s.. $2.85per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$1.000.001 and $5.000.000

0.300% (e.2.. $3.00per $1.000) for gross receipts between
$5.000.001 and $25.000.000

0.300% (e.2.. $3.00 per $1.000) for sross receipts over
$25.000.000

(b)	Real estate and rental and leasing services includes the
activities of renting, leasing, or otherwise allowing the use of tangible
or intangible assets, and the activity of providing related services: it
includes business activity described in NAICS code 53.

(c)	The amount of sross receipts from real estate and rental and
leasins services subject to the sross receipts tax shall be the total
amount of sross receipts derived from or related to properties located
or used within the City. Gross receipts shall not include amounts
derived from or related to properties located or used outside the City.

SEC. 953.8. TAX ON ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE BUSINESS
ACTIVITIES,

(a)	Except as provided in this Section, notwithstanding any
other provision of this Article and in lieu of the other taxes provided by
this Article and Article 12-A for any person or combined sroup. com-
mencing on the Operative Date of the Gross Receipts’ Tax Ordinance,
every person engaging in business within the City as an administrative
office, as defined below, shall pay an annual administrative office tax
measured by its total payroll expense that is attributable to the City. If
a person is a member of a combined group, then its tax shall be mea-
sured by the total payroll expense of the combined sroup attributable to
the City. Such combined group shall pay only the administrative office
tax. The administrative office tax rate for each tax year is 1.400 per-
cent.

(b)	“Engaging in business within the City as an administrative
office” means that:

(1)	a person is ensasins in business within the City durins
the tax year and over 50 percent of the total combined payroll expense
within the City of that person and its related entities for the preceding
tax year was associated with providing administrative or management
services exclusively to that person or related entities:

(2)	the total combined number of employees of that person
and its related entities within the United States as of the last day of the
preceding tax year exceeded 1.000: and

(3)	the total combined gross receipts of that person and its
related entities reported on United States federal income tax return(s)
for the preceding tax year exceeded $1.000.000.000.

(c)	For purposes of subsection (b) only, a related entity shall
include any person who could be included in the same combined report
under California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 25102 but for the
existence of a water's edse election under Section 25110 of that Code.

(d)	“Administrative or management services” comprises inter-
nal support services provided on an enterprise-wide basis, such as
executive office oversight, company business strategy, recordkeeping,
risk management, personnel administration, legal, accounting, market

research and analysis, and training services: it does not include sales
personnel or personnel actively engaged in marketing, research and
development, direct customer service, and product support services.

The Tax Collector is authorized to classify in its reasonable discretion
which personnel employed by any person provide administrative or
manasement services.

(e)	A verson provides administrative office services exclusively
for itself or a related entity only if the final recipient of those services is
at a location where that person or a related entity conducts business
activities.

(f)	“Payroll expense” for purposes of this Section shall have the
meaning given to that term by Sections 902.1 et seq. of Article 12-A.
except that Section 902.1(b) of Article 12-A shall not apply for pur-
poses of determining whether a person is ensasins in business within
the City as an administrative office. Section 902.1(b) shall apply for
all other purposes under this Section. The portion of the payroll
expense of a person or combined sroup that is attributable to the City
shall be determined as set forth in Section 904 of Article 12-A.

(2) In addition to the administrative office tax provided in sub-
section (a), any person ensasins in business within the City as an
administrative office exclusively for itself or a related entity shall apply
for a resistration certificate and pay a resistration fee, as provided in
Article 12.

(h)	Except as provided in this Section, the provisions of Article
6 and Article 12 apply to the administrative office tax. In particular,
and without limitins the applicability of the balance of Article 6. the
provisions of Sections 6.9-1 throush 6.9-3. inclusive, of Article 6.
resardins due dates, returns and prepayments, apply to the administra-
tive office tax.

SEC. 953.9. PERSONS OR COMBINED GROUPS ENGAGED IN
MULTIPLE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.

If a person, or a combined group as described in Section 956.3.
ensases in business activities described in more than one of Sections

953.1	throush 953.7. inclusive, of this Article. the rate or rates of gross
receipts tax to be applied to that person or group, and the method for
determinins sross receipts in the City, shall be determined as follows:

(a)	If more than 80 percent of its gross receipts, determined in
accordance with Section 956. are derived from business activities
described in only one of Sections 953.1 throush 953.7. inclusive, then
the rules of that applicable Section apply to all of its gross receipts
derived from all business activities.

(b)	If its business activities in the City are described in more
than one of Sections 953.1 throush 953.7. inclusive, and subsection (a)
of this Section does not apply, then such person or combined group
shall separately compute the sross receipts tax for each set of business
activities as provided in the Section applicable to that particular set of
business activities, modified as follows:

(1)	if the set of business activities described in any of
Sections 953.1 throush 953.7. inclusive, generates less than 20percent
of the total sross receipts of the person or group, then the receipts and
payroll of any such set of activities may be combined for all purposes
related to computins the sross receipts tax with whichever set of that
person's or sroup’s activities are taxed at the hishest rate:

(2)	the small business exemption provided in Section 954.1
shall apply only if the sum of receipts within the City from all sets of
business activities does not exceed $1.000.000 in total:

(3)	the prosressive rates described in Sections 953.1
throush 953.7 apply on an assresate basis for businesses with multiple
sets o f activities:

(4)	the applicable rate for each set of business activities
shall be determined in numbered order of the Sections describins each
set of business activities: i.e.. the sross receipts and tax for business
activities described in Section 953.1 should be determined first. Section

953.2	second, and so on:

(5)	the rate(s) applicable to any set of activities after the
first shall be determined by addins tosether the sross receipts deter-
mined for all previous sets o f activities and applvins the rate scale

commencing with the total gross receipts so determined; and

(6)	the gross receipts tax liability for the person or com-
bined group shall be the sum of the liabilities for each set of business
activities.

SEC, 954, EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS,

(a)	Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Section. an
organization that is exempt from income taxation bv Chapter 4 (com-
mencing with Section 23701) of Part 11 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code or Subchavter F (commencing with Section 501) of
Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. as
amended, as qualified bv Sections 502. 503. 504 and 508 o f the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986. as amended, shall be exempt from
taxation under this Article, only so long as those exemptions continue
to exist under state or federal law.

(b)	An organization otherwise exempt from income taxation
under subsection (a) that is directly engaged within the City in an unre-
lated trade or business within the meaning of Section 513(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986. as amended, and has, from its own
operations, unrelated business taxable income within the meaning of
Section 512(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. as amended,
shall pay the gross receipts tax on its gross receipts from its unrelated
trade or business activities that are attributable to the City. If it is
impracticable, unreasonable or improper to allocate such organiza-
tion's gross receipts as aforesaid either because of the particular nature
of the organization's unrelated trade or business or for any other rea-
son. then the amount of gross receipts reasonably attributable to the
organization's unrelated trade or business in the City shall be deter-
mined on the basis of all of the relevant facts and circumstances of the
particular case. in accordance with any rulings or regulations issued
or promulgated bv the Tax Collector for this purpose.

(c)	Gross receipts as defined in Section 952.3 shall not include
receipts from business activities if. and only so long as and to the extent
that. the City is prohibited from taxing such receipts under the
Constitution or laws of the United States or under the Constitution or
laws of the State of California.

(d)	Rent Controlled Buildings Exclusion. A person subject to the
tax mav exclude from gross receipts in anv tax year 50 percent of the total
amount received from the rental of real property to tenants in occupancy
at anv location in the City, which is subject to limits on rent increases
pursuant to the Residential Rent Stabilization and Arbitration Ordinance.
San Francisco Administrative Code. Chapter 37. Section 37.1 etseq.

(e)	Exclusion of Certain Sales of Real Property. Gross receipts
as defined in Section 952.3 shall not include receipts from any sales of
real property with respect to which the Real Property Transfer Tax
imposed by Article 12-C has been paid to the City.

(f)	For only so long as and to the extent that the City is
prohibited from imposing the tax under this Article, the following
persons shall be exempt from the gross receipts tax:

(1)	Banks and financial corporations exempt from local
taxation under Article XIII. Section 27 of the California Constitution
and Revenue and Taxation Code Section 23182:

(2)	Insurance companies exempt from local taxation under
Article XIII. Section 28 of the California Constitution:

(3)	Persons engaging in business as a for-hire motor car-
rier of property under Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7233:

(4)	Persons engaging in intercity transportation as a
household goods carrier under Public Utilities Code Section 5327:

(5)	Charter-party carriers operating limousines that are
neither domiciled nor maintain a business o ffice within the City under
Public Utilities Code Section 5371.4; and

(6)	Any person upon whom the City is prohibited under the
Constitution or laws of the State of California from imposing the gross
receipts tax.

(g)	To the extent that any taxpayer has paid a substantially simi-
lar tax to any other taxing jurisdiction on any gross receipts attributed to
the City and taxed under this Article. the tax paid to such taxing jurisdic-
tion shall be credited against the tax due under this Article: in no event

shall this credit reduce the taxpayer's liability to less than z.ero.

SEC, 954,1, SMALL BUSINESS EXEMPTION,

(a)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, a “small
business enterprise." as hereinafter defined for purposes of this Article
12-A-l. shall be exempt from payment of the gross receipts tax, never-
theless. a small business enterprise shall pay the annual registration
fee pursuant to Section 855 o f Article 12.

(b)	For purposes of this Article 12-A-l. the term “small busi-
ness enterprise" shall mean and include any verson or combined
group, except for a lessor o f residential real estate:

(1)	Whose gross receipts within the City for the preceding
tax year did not exceed $1,000.000. adjusted annually in accordance
with the increase in the Consumer Price Index: All Urban Consumers
for the San Francisco/Oakland/San Jose Area for All Items as reported
by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. or any successor to
that index, as of December 31st of the preceding year, beginning with
December 31. 2014: and

(2)	Who filed a tax return by the last day of February for
the preceding tax year, if that person or group had gross receipts in the
City of over $500.000. If a person is required to file a tax return under
this Section. and fails to file a return by that date. the taxpayer shall be
subject to a penalty as specified in subsection (c).

(c)	In lieu of the penalty specified in Section 6.17-3 of Article 6
for failing to file a return, any person who otherwise qualifies for the
small business exemption set forth in this Section, and who had gross
receipts in the City o f over $500.000. who fails to file a return by the
last date of February shall pay a penalty as follows:

(1)	The penalty for the first month, or fraction thereof, that
the return is delinquent, shall be 5 percent of the amount of the tax lia-
bility. calculated without regard to the small business exemption in this
Section. The penalty shall increase by an additional 5 percent each
month, or fraction thereof, that the return is delinquent, up to a maxi-
mum of 20 percent of the tax liability. Any penalties remaining unpaid
for a period of 90 days or more shall be subject to an additional pen-
alty of 20 percent of the amount of the tax liability excluding penalties
and interest.

(2)	Penalties are due and payable when assessed. Unpaid
penalties, interest and fees shall accrue interest at the rate of 1 percent
per month, or fraction thereof, from the date that they are assessed
through the date of payment. The total amount of the penalties, interest
and fees shall not exceed the amount of the person’s gross receipts tax
liability for the period but for the small business exemption.

(d)	The Tax Collector may, at his or her discretion, reduce the
penalty set forth in subsection (c) to not less than $100 upon a showing
that the late filing of the return was due to reasonable cause and not
due to willful neglect.

(e)	For purposes of this Article 12-A-l. and notwithstanding any
other provision of this Section. a lessor of residential real estate is a

“small business enterprise” if and only if the lessor leases fewer than 4
units in any individual building. “Residential real estate" means real
property where the primary use of or right to use the property is for the
purpose of dwelling, sleeping or lodging other than as part of the busi-
ness activity of accommodations. For purposes of this Article 12-A-l.
Article 12-A. and Article 12. a lessor of residential real estate is treated
as a separate person with respect to each individual building in which it
leases residential real estate units, notwithstanding Section 6.2-15 of
Article 6. or Section 956.3 of this Article. The provisions of this subsec-
tion apply only to leasing residential real estate units within a building,
and not to any business activity related to other space, either within the
same building or other buildings, which is not residential real estate.

The Tax Collector is authorized to determine what constitutes a separate
building and the number of units in a building.

SEC. 955. PERSONS DERIVING NO GROSS RECEIPTS FROM
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE THE CITY.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, any person
subject to the gross receipts tax who derives non-exempt gross receipts

EU

from business activities within the City and derives no gross receipts
from business activities outside the City is subject to tax on all
non-exempt gross receipts.

SEC. 956. ALLOCATION AND APPORTIONMENT FOR ALL
PERSONS DERIVING GROSS RECEIPTS FROM BUSINESS
ACTIVITIES BOTH WITHIN AND OUTSIDE THE CITY.

All persons deriving gross receipts from business activities both
within and outside the City shall allocate and/or apportion their gross
receipts to the City. us ins the rules set forth in Section 956.1 and 956.2.
in the manner directed in Sections 953.1 through 953.7.
inclusive, and in Section 953.9 o f this Article.

SEC. 956.1. ALLOCATION OF RECEIPTS FROM REAL.
PERSONAL. TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE PROPERTY.

(a)	For all persons required to determine an amount of gross
receipts pursuant to this Section, that amount shall be all non-exempt
gross receipts within the City as determined hereunder.

(b)	Gross receipts from the sale, lease, rental or licensing of
real property are in the City if the real property is located in the City.

(c)	Gross receipts from sales of tangible personal property are
in the City if the property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser within
the City regardless of the f.o .b. point or other conditions of the sale.

(d)	Gross receipts from the rental, lease or licensing of tangible
personal property are in the City if the property is located in the City.

(e)	Gross receipts from services are in the City to the extent the
purchaser of the services received the benefit of the services in the City.

(f)	Gross receipts from intangible property are in the City to the
extent the property is used in the City. In the case of financial instru-
ments. sales are in the City if the customer is located in the City.

SEC. 956.2. APPORTIONMENT OF RECEIPTS BASED ON
PAYROLL.

(a)	For all persons required to determine an amount of gross
receipts pursuant to this Section, that amount shall be all non-exempt
combined gross receipts of the person multiplied by a fraction, the
numerator of which is payroll in the City and the denominator of which
is combined payroll.

(b)	Combined gross receipts are the total worldwide gross
receipts of the person and all related entities to the person, unless the
election provided for in California Revenue and Taxation Code Section
25110 is in effect for the person, in which case combined gross receipts
shall be computed consistently with the water's edge election, as set
forth therein.

(c)	Combined payroll is the total worldwide compensation paid
by the person and all related entities to the person, unless the election
provided for in California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 25110 is
in effect for the person, in which case combined payroll shall be com-
puted consistently with the water's edge election, as set forth therein. A
person who has no combined payroll in a tax year shall have no gross
receipts under this Section for that tax year.

(d)	Payroll in the City is the total amount paid for compensation
in the City by the person and by all related entities to the person.

(e)	Compensation paid in the City shall be determined as set
forth in Section 904 of Article 12-A.

(f)	“Compensation” means wages. salaries, commissions and
any other form of remuneration paid to employees for services. In the
case of any person who has no employees, compensation shall also
include all taxable income for federal income tax purposes of the own-
ers or proprietors o f such person who are individuals. Those owners
or proprietors shall be treated as individuals to whom compensation is
paid for purposes of subsection (e).

(g)	The apportionment provided by this Section shall not include
in either the numerator or the denominator any payroll of persons
exempt from tax under subsections (a), (b). or (f) of Section 954.

SEC. 956.3. COMBINED RETURNS,

A person engaging in business within the City must file gross

receipts tax returns as provided in Article 6. Those returns must be
filed on a combined basis with all of that person’s related entities. That
person, and all of that person's related entities, constitute a combined
2roup. Every combined group must file a single return: the combined
group may choose a single person to file the return on its behalf. Each
person within the combined group engaging in business in the City
must provide a power of attorney to the person filing the return, autho-
rizing the person filing the return to file said return and to act on
behalf of each person with respect to payments, refunds, audits, resolu-
tions. and any other items related to the tax liability reflected in the
return. The power of attorney shall be substantially in a form to be
promulgated by the Tax Collector. Each return filed by a combined
group constitutes a combined return under this Article and Article 6.
The person filing any combined return shall pay the tax liability
reflected on the return and any liability determined on audit at the time
and in the manner set forth for returns and liabilities in Article 6.

SEC, 957, TAX COLLECTOR AUTHORIZED TQ DETERMINE
GROSS RECEIPTS.

The Tax Collector may, in his or her reasonable discretion, inde-
pendently establish a person's gross receipts within the City and estab-
lish or reallocate gross receipts among related entities so as to fairly
reflect the gross receipts within the City of all persons. This authority
extends to determining whether any amount excluded from gross
receipts by virtue of Section 952.3(f) is in whole or in part compensa-
tion or payment for services and thus included in gross receipts.

SEC. 958. ADMINISTRATION OF THE GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
ORDINANCE,

Except as otherwise provided under this Article, the Gross
Receipts Tax Ordinance shall be administered pursuant to Article 6 of
the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code.

SEC. 959. RATE OF GROSS RECEIPTS TAX: CONTROLLER
COMPUTATION,

(a)	Commencing on the operative date of the Gross Receipts Tax
Ordinance, the Controller shall compute the rate of gross receipts tax
for Sections 953.1 through 953.7 in accordance with subsection (b) of
this Section. The Controller shall certify and publish such rates on or
before September 1 of each year.

(b)	Gross Receipts Tax Computation. The Controller shall com-
pute the gross receipts tax rates for each tax year by multiplying each
base rate in Sections 953.1 through 953.7 by the uGross Receipts Tax
Rate Adjustment Factor. ” which shall be determined according to the
following table and formulas, but no gross receipts tax rate shall
exceed the base rates provided by Sections 953.1 through 953.7.

Gross Receipts Tax Rate Adjustment Factor Computation Table

Tax Year	Gross Receipts Tax Rate Adjustment Factor (GADJyear)
2014	GADJ,4 = 10%
2015	GADJ,5 = 25% + EXP,5
2016	GADJ,6 = 50% + EXP,6
2017	GADJ,7= 75% + EXP, 7
2018	GADJ,* = 100% + EXP,8

Where: “EXPyear” is the “Excess Payroll Expense Tax Revenue
Factor. ” a percentage that reduces the gross receipts tax rate adjust-
ment factor for a year in which the payroll expense tax rate determined
under Section 903.1 of Article 12-A becomes z.ero. and which adjusts
for excess payroll expense tax revenue collected for that tax year. The
Controller shall compute EXPyear according to the following table and
formulas:

(1)	In any year in which PAYRATEyear is greater than
z.ero. where PAYRATEyear is determined under Section 903.1 of Article
12-A. EXPyear is z.ero.

(2)	In the first year in which PAYRATEvear is zero, where
PAYRATEvear is determined under Section 903.1 of Article 12-A.
EXPyear shall be computed according to the following table and for-
mulas. In subsequent years. GADJvear shall be the same value it was
in the prior year:

Excess Payroll Expense Tax Revenue Factor Computation Table

Tax Year	Excess Payroll Expense Tax Revenue Factor (EXPvear)
2015	EXP= r( 1.125% + PADJid X (PAYTAXJPAYRATE.AH (GRTAXia/10%)
2016	EXP., = f(0.750% + PAD J, Ax (PAYTAX.APAYRATE.Al/ GRTAX.325%)
2017	EXP 17 = f(0.375% + PADJ.A x (PAYTAX.JPAYRATE.Al/ GRTAX.J50%)
2018	EXP,* = [PAD.J,, x (PAYTAXn/PAY RATE n)l! (GRTAX.7/75%)

Where: PADJyear. PAYTAXvear. and GRTAXvear are determined under
Section 903.1 of Article 12-A.

(c)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article. in am
year in which the payroll expense tax rate determined under Section
903.1 of Article 12-A is z.ero. the gross receipts tax rates for that year
and all future years shall be as the Controller computed for that year,
except that for tax year 2021 and all future years, the rate under
Section 953.7(a). for gross receipts over $25.000.000 only. shall be the
sum of the rate established under this Section 959(c) and 0.025%. In
no event shall the rate established under Section 953.7(a) by the pre-
ceding sentence. for gross receipts over $25.000.000. exceed 0.325%.
The Controller shall certify and publish such rates by September 1 of
that year.

(d)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article. the gross
receipts tax rates for 2019 and all future years shall be the rates in
effect in tax year 2018. except that for tax year 2021 and all future
years, the rate under Section 953.7(a). for gross receipts over
$25.000.000 only, shall be the sum of the rate established under this
Section 959(c) and 0.025%. In no event shall the rate established
under Section 953.7(a) by the preceding sentence, for gross receipts
over $25.000.000. exceed 0.325%. The Controller shall certify and
publish such rates on or before September 1. 2019. at which time the
Controller's duty to compute, certify and publish the payroll expense
tax rate shall cease.

SEC. 960. THE “PAYROLL EXPENSE TAX EXCLUSION” CREDIT.

(a)	“Payroll Expense Tax Exclusion Credit" means the dollar
amount by which a person would have been able to reduce its payroll
expense tax liability pursuant to the Enterprise Zone Tax Credit under
Section 906A of Article 12-A. the Biotechnology Exclusion under
Section 906.1 of Article 12-A. and/or the Clean Technology Business
Exclusion under Section 906.2 of Article 12-A. as if the payroll expense
tax were in full force and effect and calculated at a rate of IV2 percent.

(b)	“Combined Business Tax Liability " means the sum of the gross
receipts tax and the payroll expense tax a verson owes for a tax year.

(c)	For so lone as a particular payroll expense tax exclusion
listed under subsection (a) is in effect, without regard to whether the
payroll expense tax is otherwise in effect, a person may credit against
its combined business tax liability for a tax year the amount of a par-
ticular payroll expense tax exclusion credit to which it would be enti-
tled under the payroll expense tax: however, in no event shall such
credit reduce a person’s combined business tax liability to less than
z.ero. Any verson who claims the credit under this Section must meet
all of the eligibility requirements of the payroll expense tax exclusion! s)
it claims. The credit may be claimed asainst the tax liability only of
the person who qualified for the payroll expense tax exclusion and not
asainst any liability of related entities or other members of that per-
son's combined group.

SEC. 961. CENTRAL MARKET STREET LIMIT.

(a)	The “Central Market Street Limit" means a person's payroll
expense tax liability for a tax year as determined under the Central
Market Street and Tenderloin Area Payroll Expense Tax Exclusion under
Section 906.3 of Article 12-A. calculated at a rate of IV2 percent.

(b)	“Combined Business Tax Liability” means the sum of the
gross receipts tax and the payroll expense tax a verson owes that is
attributable to locations) in the Central Market Street and Tenderloin
Area as defined in Section 906.3(b) of Article 12-A for a tax year under
the rates established for that year.

(c)	For so Ions as the Central Market Street and Tenderloin
Area Payroll Expense Tax Exclusion is in effect, without regard to
whether the payroll expense tax is otherwise in effect, a person shall
owe the lesser of its combined business tax liability or the amount of its
Central Market Street limit. Any person who claims the Central
Market Street and Tenderloin Area Payroll Expense Tax Exclusion must
meet all of the eligibility requirements of that exclusion.

SEC. 962. AMENDMENT OF ORDINANCE.

The Board of Supervisors may amend or repeal Article 12-A-l of
the Business and Tax Regulations Code without a vote of the people
except as limited by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution.

SEC. 963. EFFECT OF STATE AND FEDERAL
AUTHORIZATION.

To the extent that the City's authorization to impose or collect
any tax imposed under this Article 12-A-l is expanded or limited as a
result of changes in state or federal law, no amendment or modification
of this Article 12-A-l shall be required to conform the taxes to those
changes, and the taxes are hereby imposed and the Tax Collector shall
collect them to the full extent of the City's authorization up to the full
amount and rate of the taxes imposed under this Article 12-A-l.

SEC. 964. SEVERABILITY.

Except as provided in Section 965(b) below, if any section, sen-
tence. clause, phrase, or portion of Article 12-A-l is for any reason
held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdic-
tion. the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of
this Article shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The peo-
ple of the City and County of San Francisco hereby declare that, except
as provided in Section 965(b). they would have adopted each section,
sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Article, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or por-
tions of this Article be declared invalid or unenforceable and, to that
end, the provisions o f this Article are severable.

SEC, 965, SAVINGS CLAUSE,

(a)	No section, clause, part or provision of this Article shall be
construed as requiring the payment of any tax that would be in viola-
tion of the Constitution or laws of the United States or of the
Constitution or laws of the State of California. Except as provided in
subsection (b) of this Section, if any section, clause, part or provision
of this Article, or the application thereof to any person or circum-
stance. is held invalid or unconstitutional, the remainder of this Article.
including the application of such part or provision to other persons or
circumstances, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full
force and effect. To this end, the provisions of this Article are sever-
able.

(b)	If the imposition of the gross receipts tax in Section 953. or
any portion of the rate computation under Section 959. of this Article is
held invalid or unconstitutional in a final court determination, the
remainder of this Article shall be null and void and of no force and
effect. For any tax year for which this Article is invalidated pursuant
to this Section, the payroll expense tax provided by Article 12-A may be
assessed against any person engaging in business in the City during
that tax year as if this Ordinance had not been passed, except that such
assessment may be made and collected notwithstanding any statute of
limitations provided by Article 6.

EU

Section 4. Operative Date.

Except for Section 5, this Ordinance shall become operative the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing after December 31,
2013. Section 5 shall become operative on the effective date of this
Ordinance.

Section 5. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code is hereby amended by amending Sections 855 and 856 and add-
ing Section 863 to Article 12, to read as follows:

SEC. 855. REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE - FEE.

(a) Fee for resistration years endins on or after June 30. 2004.
but ending on or before June 30. 2014. Except as otherwise provided
in this Section and Section 856 of this Article, the annual fee for
obtaining a registration certificate for resistration years endins on or
after June 30. 2004. but endins on or before June 30. 2014. payable in
advance, shall be as follows:

Computed Payroll Expense Tax for the Immediately Preceding Tax Year	Annual Registration Fee
Less than $1	$25
$1 to $10,000	$150
$10,000.01 to $50,000	$250
More than $50,000	$500

(b)	In the event that an applicant for a registration certificate^
for resistration years ending on or after June 30. 2004. but ending on
or before June 30. 2014. has not filed a tax return for the immediately
preceding tax year as required by Section 6.9-2 of Article 6, the Tax
Collector shall determine the amount of the registration fee required
based on the applicant’s estimated tax liability under Article 12-A
(Payroll Expense Tax Ordinance) for the period covered by the registra-
tion certificate.

(c)	Fee for Resistration Year Commencing July 1. 2014 and
Endins June 30. 2015. Except as otherwise provided in this Section
and Section 856 o f this Article, the annual fee for obtaining a resistra-
tion certificate, for the resistration year commencins July 1. 2014 and
endins June 30. 2015. payable in advance, shall be as follows:

Payroll Expense for the Immediately	Annual Resistration Fee
Precedins Tax Year	
$0 to $66.66	$75
$66.67 to $75,000	$150
$75,001 to $100,000	$250
$100,001 to $150,000	$500
$150,001 to $200,000	$700
$200,001 to $250,000	$800
$250,001 to $1,000,000	$300
$1,000,001 to $2,500,000	$800
$2,500,001 to $5,000,000	$5,000
$5,000,001 to	$15,000
$10,000,001 to $25,000,000	$25,000
$25,000,001 to $40,000,000	$30,000
$40,000,001 or more	$35,000

(d) In the event that an applicant for a resistration certificate,
for resistration year commencins July 1. 2014 and endins June 30.

2015. has not filed a tax return for the immediately precedins tax year
as required by Section 6.9-2 of Article 6. the Tax Collector shall deter-
mine the amount of the resistration fee required based on the appli-
cant's payroll expense under Article 12-A (Payroll Expense Tax
Ordinance) for the period covered by the resistration certificate. A
combined sroup as described in Section 956.3 of Article 12-A-l shall
apply for a certificate and calculate its fee on a combined basis.

(e) Fee for Resistration Years Endins After June 30. 2015.

(1) General Rule. Except as otherwise provided in this
Section and Section 856 of this Article, the annual fee for obtainins a
resistration certificate. for the resistration years endins after June 30.
2015. payable in advance, shall be as follows:

Gross Receipts for the Immediately	Annual Resistration Fee
Preceding Tax Year	
$0 to $100,000	$90
$100,001 to $250,000	$150
$250,001 to $500,000	$250
$500,001 to $750,000	$500
$750,001 to $1,000,000	$700
$1,000,001 to $2,500,000	$300
$2,500,001 to $7,500,000	$500
$7,500,001 to $15,000,000	$1,500
$15,000,001 to $25,000,000	$5,000
$25,000,001 to $50,000,000	$12,500
$50,000,001 to $100,000,000	$22,500
$100,000,001 to $200,000,000	$30,000
$200,000,001 and over	$35,000

(2) Fee for Retail Trade. Wholesale Trade and Certain Services.
Except as otherwise provided in this Section and Section 856 of this
Article, for resistration years endins after June 30. 2015. the annual
fee for obtainins a resistration certificate, payable in advance, for a
business that was required to report all o f its sross receipts pursuant to
Article 12-A-l. Section 953.1 for the precedins tax year, shall be as fol-
lows:

Gross Receipts for the Immediately	Annual Registration Fee
Preceding Tax Year	
$0 to $100,000	$75
$100,001 to $250,000	$125
$250,001 to $500,000	$200
$500,001 to $750,000	MOO
$750,001 to $1,000,000	$600
$1,000,001 to $2,500,000	$200
$2,500,001 to $7,500,000	MOO
$7,500,001 to $15,000,000	$1.125
$15,000,001 to $25,000,000	$3,750
$25,000,001 to $50,000,000	$7,500
$50,000,001 to $100,000,000	$15,000
$100,000,001 to $200,000,000	$20,000
$200,000,001 and over	$30,000

(f)	Except as provided in subsection (g) (Administrative Office
Business Activities), in the event that an applicant for a registration
certificate. for a registration year ending after June 30. 2015. has not
filed a tax return for the immediately preceding tax year as required by
Section 6.9-2 of Article 6. the Tax Collector shall determine the amount
of the registration fee required based on the applicant's
estimated gross receipts under Article 12-A-l (Gross Receipts Tax
Ordinance) for the period covered by the registration certificate.

(c)	The fee for obtaining a registration certificate for any calen-
dar year ending on or before December 31, 2001 shall be determined-
in accordance with the registration fee provisions of the Business and-
Tax Regulations Code, or its predecessor, governing such year.

teP(g) Fee for Administrative Office Business Activities. Except
as otherwise provided in this Section and Section 856 o f this Article.
the annual fee for obtaining a registration certificate for Administrative
Office Business Activities under Section 953.8 of Article 12A-L for the
re2istration years ending after June 30. 2015. payable in advance.
shall be as follows:

Payroll Exnense for Immediately Preceding Tax Year	Annual Registration Fee
$0to $2,500,000	$15,000
$2,500,001 to $25,000,000	$25,000
$25,000,000 or more	$35,000

(h)	In the event that an applicant for a registration certificate
for Administrative Office Business Activities under Section 953.8 of
Article 12A-1. for a re2istration year endin2 after June 30. 2015. has
not filed a tax return for the immediately precedin2 tax year as
required bv Section 6.9-2 of Article 6. the Tax Collector shall
determine the amount of the re2istration fee required based on the
applicant's estimated payroll expense under Article 12-A-l for the
period covered bv the registration certificate.

(i)	The amount of annual registration fee under subsections (c).

(e). and (2) of this Article 12. Section 855. for all re 2 is tr at ion years
endin2 after June 30. 2015. shall be adjusted annually in accordance
with the increase in the Consumer Price Index: All Urban Consumers
for the San Francisco/Oakland/San Jose Area for All Items as reported
bv the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. or anv successor to
that index, as of December 31st of the precedin2 year. be2innin2 July 1.
2016.

(JX Any organization having a formally recognized exemption
from income taxation pursuant to Section 501(c), 501(d) or 401(a) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as qualified by
Sections 502, 503, 504 and 508 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended, shall not be required to pay a registration fee under this
Article unless the organization is also engaged within the City in an
unrelated trade or business within the meaning of Section 906 of
Article 12-A or Section 954 of Article 12-A-l. fe) A person shall be
exempt from paying the registration fee required by this Section if and
to the extent that, and only so lon2 as. federal or state law prohibits the
imposition of the registration fee upon such person.

(k) The business registration fee is a tax imposed for general
governmental purposes and may not be extended or increased without
a vote of the people, as provided in Article X11C of the California
Constitution. This tax may be collected in any manner le2allv
permitted to the City.

SEC. 856. REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE - APPLICATION
AND ISSUANCE.

(a)	Each person engaging in business within the City shall apply
to the Tax Collector for a re2istration certificate. on-ausing the form
prescribed by the Tax Collector, for a registration certificate. The
application shall be accompanied by the person’s registration fee as
determined under this Article. A combined 2roup as described in
Section 956.3 of Article 12-A-l shall apply for a certificate and calcu-
late its fee on a combined basis.To ease administrative burdens on tax-

payers (by consolidating the deadlines to file annual tax returns and
apply for renewal of registration certificates), the term of registration-
certificates shall be changed from the calendar year basis to a fiscal
year basis. The purpose of subsections (b) through (e) of this Section -h
to facilitate such change and shall be interpreted in accordance with
this purpose.

(b)	A registration certificate issued for a calendar year com
mencing on or before January 1, 2002, shall be valid until December
31 of such calendar year. All persons engaging in business within the-
City during any such calendar year shall, before the last business day-
in October, apply to the Tax Collector for a registration certificate for -
the succeeding calendar year. The application for renewal of the
annual registration certificate shall become delinquent if the registra
tion fee is not paid on or before the last business day in October.

(c)	To accomplish the change from the calendar year registra
tion period to a fiscal year registration period, there shall be a
Registration Transition Period commencing January 1, 2003, and end-
ing June 30, 2003. A registration certificate issued for the Registration-
Transition Period shall be valid through June 30, 2003. Except as pro •
vided in subsection (f) of this Section, any person engaging in busincss-
within the City during the calendar year preceding the Registration
Transition Period shall, before October 31, 2002, apply to the Tax
Collector for a registration certificate covering the Registration
Transition Period. The application for renewal of the registration cer-
tificate covering the Registration Transition Period shall become delin-
quent if the registration fee is not paid on or before October 31, 2002.
Except as provided in subsection (f) of this Section, the fee for a regis-
tration certificate covering the Registration Transition Period shall be
50 percent of the amount of the annual registration fee otherwise appli-
cable under Section 855 of this Article.

(d)	Any person engaging in business within the City during the
Registration Transition Period shall, between January 1 and February
28, 2003, apply to the Tax Collector for a registration certificate for the
succeeding registration year (commencing July 1, 2003, and ending
June 30, 2004). The application for renewal of such certificate shall
become delinquent if not paid on or before February 28, 2003.

(e)	A registration certificate issued for any registration year after
the Registration Transition Period shall be valid through June 30 of
such registration year. Except as provided in subsection (f) of this
Section, for any registration year commencing on or after July 1, 2003,
any person engaging in business within the City shall, between January
1 and the last day of May, apply to the Tax Collector for a registration
certificate for the succeeding registration year. The application for
renewal of the annual registration certificate shall become delinquent if
the registration fee is not paid on or before the last day of May.

(T¥b) A person shall have 15 days after commencing business
within the City to apply for a registration certificate. The registration
fee for newly-established businesses shall be prorated as follows:

(1)	For tax years ending on or before December 31, 2001,
the fee-for obtaining a registration certificate for a newly established
business shall be determined in accordance with Sections 1007, 1007.1
and 1007.2 of Article 12-B of the Business Tax and Regulations Code
as it read on December 31,1999, or the predecessor provisions gov-
erning-the registration fee for the relevant tax year.

(2)	For the tax year ending on December 31, 2002, the fee
for obtaining a registration certificate for a newly established business
shall be determined pursuant to Section 855 of this Article using the
estimated Payroll Expense Tax liability for such tax year. The registra-
tion fee for any person who commences business operations within the
City during such tax year shall be prorated as follows: For persons
commencing business between January 1st and March 31st, the regis-
tration-fee shall be 100 percent of the annual fee; for persons com-
mencing business between April 1st and June 30th, the regisfration fee
shall be 75 percent of the annual fee; for persons commencing business
between July 1st and September 30th, the registration fee shall be 50
percent of the annual fee; and for persons commencing business
between October 1st and December 31st, the registration fee shall be
25 percent of the annual fee. Where a registration certificate is issued



for a period other than for a calendar year, the Tax Collector shall
have discretion to prorate the registration fee in accordance with the
formula set forth in this paragraph.

(3)	For the Registration Transition Period, the fee for
obtaining a registration certificate for a newly established business
shall be determined pursuant to Section 855 of this Article using the
applicant's estimated tax liability under Article 12-A (Payroll Expense
Tax Ordinance) for the 2003 tax year. For any person who commences
business operations within the City on or after January 1, 2003, and
before April 1, 2003, the registration fee shall be as set forth in subsec-
tion (c) of this Section. For any person who commences business oper-
ations within the City on or after April 1, 2003, and before July 1,

2003, the registration, fee shall be 25 percent of the amount of the
annual registration fee otherwise applicable under Section 855(a) of
this Article.

(43( 1) For the registration year commencing on or
after July 1. 2014 and ending June 30. 2015. the fee for obtaining a
registration certificate for a newh established business shall be deter-
mined pursuant to Section 855(c) of this Article us ins the applicant's
estimated payroll expense under Article 12-A (Payroll Expense Tax
Ordinance) for the tax year in which the person commences such busi-
ness within the City. For registration years commencing on or after
July 1,20032015, the fee for obtaining a registration certificate for a
newly established business shall be determined pursuant to Section
855(f) of this Article using the applicant’s estimated tax liability gross
receipts under Article 12-A (Payroll Expense Tax Ordinance )12-A-1
(Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance) for the tax year in which the person
commences such business within the City. The registration ftt for per-
sons who commence business operations after the Registration
Transition Period shall be prorated as follows: For persons commenc-
ing business between January 1st and March 31st, the registration fee
shall be 50 percent of the annual fee; for persons commencing business
between April 1st and June 30th, the registration fee shall be 25 percent
of the annual fee; for persons commencing business between July 1st
and September 30th, the registration fee shall be 100 percent of the
annual fee; and for persons commencing business between October 1st
and December 31st, the registration fee shall be 75 percent of the
annual fee. Where a registration certificate is issued for a period other
than for a registration year, the Tax Collector shall have discretion to
prorate the registration fee in accordance with this model.

(53(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article,
no person obtaining a registration certificate for a newly established
business that qualifies for the $2^minimum registration fee set forth in
Section 855 of this Article shall be entitled to prorate the registration
fee under this Section, but instead shall pay the $25-minimum
registration fee.

(g3(c) All applications for renewal of registration certificates
shall be accompanied by the full amount of the applicant’s annual
registration fee for the period covered by the registration certificate.

(h3(d) Promptly after receiving a properly completed application
and registration fee from any person, the Tax Collector shall determine
whether the applicant has paid all outstanding: (1) gross receipts taxes:

(2)	^payroll Expense 7)axes; (23(3) costs and/or charges assessed pur-
suant to Section 174.2 of Article 5.1 of the Public Works Code, as
amended from time to time, for failure to abate a nuisance regarding the
cleanliness of an abutting public sidewalk or right-of-way; and (33(4)
other taxes and license fees due to the City. In addition, the Tax
Collector may investigate whether the applicant has paid other amounts
owning to the City as a result of fines, penalties, interest, assessments,
or any other financial obligations imposed by law, regulation or
contract. If the Tax Collector determines that all liabilities have been
paid, the Tax Collector shall issue a registration certificate to the
applicant for each place of business maintained by the applicant.

(33(e) If a person submits a timely application under this Section
and the Tax Collector determines that the applicant has satisfied all the
requirements of this Article, including the payment of all outstanding
liabilities owed to the City, then the Tax Collector shall issue a registra-
tion certificate to the applicant within 30 days after the Tax Collector
makes such determination.

(33(f) Each registration certificate shall be non-assignable and
nontransferable. The holder of the registration certificate shall
surrender the certificate to the Tax Collector immediately upon the
sale or transfer of the business for which the Tax Collector issued the
registration certificate. The holder of the registration certificate shall
also surrender the certificate to the Tax Collector when such holder
ceases to conduct business at the location designated in the certificate.

fk3(g) If the Tax Collector determines that any liabilities
enumerated in subsection (4t3(d) of this Section remain unpaid as of the
date an application is received, the Tax Collector shall give written
notification of that fact to the applicant. The written notification shall
set forth the amount owed, the liabilities enumerated in subsection (ft}

(d)	of this Section for which the amount(s) are owed, the dates the
liabilities were incurred and any other information the Tax Collector
deems necessary to apprise the applicant of what specific liabilities are
owed to the City. The Tax Collector shall not issue a registration
certificate unless and until the applicant has paid all amounts owing to
the City, including,, but not limited to, taxes, license fees, and costs or
charges assessed for failure to abate a nuisance condition on a public
right-of-way under Section 174.2 of Article 5.1 of the Public Works
Code, as amended from time to time, for which the applicant is liable;
provided, that if a good faith dispute exists regarding the amount of the
outstanding liability or liabilities owed by the applicant to the City and
the dispute is pending before a City agency or court of competent juris-
diction, then the Tax Collector shall not refuse to issue a registration
certificate solely for non-payment of the amount in dispute.

(33(h) Each registration certificate, and each duplicate thereof,
shall set forth the name under which the person transacts or intends to
transact business, the location of the registrant’s place of business and
such other information as the Tax Collector may require, and be promi-
nently displayed therein. In the case of a sole proprietorship, the regis-
tration certificate shall be signed by the sole proprietor; in the case of a
partnership, the registration certificate shall be signed by a general part-
ner; in the case of a limited liability company, the registration certifi-
cate shall be signed by the managing member; and in the case of a cor-
poration, the registration certificate shall be signed by the person autho-
rized by the corporation to sign on its behalf.

(m}(iX Each person liable for payment of a registration fee
pursuant to this Article shall only-pay only one annual registration
fee^; however, (The Tax Collector shall issue a separate registration
certificate for each location within the City where the person engages
in business.

(i)	The person may resister up to 15 fictitious business names
(sometimes abbreviated DBA. dba or d/b/a) without an additional
charge. The Tax Collector shall charge a fee of $25. in addition to the
registration fee. for each fictitious business name under which the busi-
ness or operation is registered to conduct business in the City in addi-
tion to the first 15 fictitious business names registered.

(k) In addition to all other civil penalties provided for by law,
the Tax Collector may charge any person who fails to register in a
timely manner a fictitious business name or a location within the City
where the verson engages in business. an administrative penalty of
$500 per fictitious business name or business location that the person
fails to register.

SEC. 863. AMENDMENT OF ORDINANCE.

The Board of Supervisors may amend or repeal Article 12 of the
Business and Tax Regulations Code without a vote of the people except
as limited by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution.

Section 6. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code is hereby amended by amending Sections 903.1,905-A and 906E
and adding Section 909 to Article 12-A, to read as follows:

SEC. 903.1. RATE OF PAYROLL EXPENSE TAX.

(a)	Except as provided in subsection (b). Tthe rate of the payroll
expense tax shall be IV2 percent. The amount of a person’s liability for
the payroll expense tax shall be the product of such person’s taxable

payroll expense multiplied by the rate of the payroll expense tax
expressed as a decimal (e.g.. for a payroll expense tax rate of 1 ¥2 per-
cent. 0.015). The amount of such tax for Associations shall be IV2 pcr-
eentthe sum of the payroll expense of such Association, plus 1V2 per-
cent of and the total distributions made by such Association by way of
salary to those having an ownership interest in such Association, multi-
plied by the rate of the payroll expense tax expressed as a decimal
(e.e.. for a payroll expense tax rate of IV2 percent. 0.015). Amounts
paid or credited to those having an ownership interest in such
Association prior and in addition to the distribution of ownership profit
or loss shall be presumed to be distributions “by way of salary” and for
personal services rendered, unless the taxpayer proves otherwise by
clear and convincing evidence.

(b)	Commencing on the operative date of the Gross Receipts Tax
Ordinance, the rate of the payroll expense tax shall be computed by the
Controller in accordance with subsections (c) and (d). The Controller
shall certify and publish such rate on or before September 1 of each
year.

(c)	Commencing on the operative date of the Gross Receipts Tax
Ordinance:

(1)	For any tax year in which the payroll expense tax rate,
computed in accordance with subsection (d). is less than z.ero. then the
payroll expense tax rate for that year and all subsequent years shall be
z.ero. The Controller shall certify and publish such rate on or before
September 1 of that year.

(2)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article or
Article 12-A-l. the payroll expense tax rate for 2019 and all future
years shall be the rate in effect in tax year 2018. The Controller shall
certify and publish such rate on or before September 1. 2019. at which
time the Controller’s duty to compute, certify and publish the payroll
expense tax rate shall cease.

(3)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article or
Article 12-A-l. in no event shall the payroll expense tax rate for any
year exceed IV2 percent.

(d)	Payroll Expense Tax Rate Computation. The Controller
shall compute the payroll expense tax rate for each tax year according
to the following table and formulas:

(1) Payroll Expense Tax Rate Computation Table

Tax Year	Payroll Exvense Tax Rate (PAYRATEyear)
2014	PAYRATE,4 =1.350%
2015	PAYRATE,5 =1.125% + PADJ,5
2016	PAYRATE,6 =0.750% + PADJ,6
2017	PAYRATEi7 =0.375% + PADJ ,7
2018	PAYRATEig =0% + PADJ,8

Where: “PADJ year” is the payroll expense tax rate adjustment factor
expressed as a percentage and computed in accordance with subsection

(d)(2).

(2) Payroll Expense Tax Rate Adjustment Factor
Computation. Unless the prior year's payroll expense tax rate is z.ero.
in which case the payroll expense tax adjustment factor does not apply,
the Controller shall compute the payroll expense tax rate adjustment
factor (PADJyear) according to the following table and formulas:

Payroll Expense Tax Rate Adjustment Factor Computation

Table

Tax Year	Payroll Expense Tax Rate Adjustment (PAD Jy ear)
2015	PADJ„ = MR, J(PAYTAX,4/PA YRATE^l
2016	PADJ,. - MR ,./(.PAYTAX, JPAYRATE, *)
	

2017	PADJ a = MR nt (PA YTAXiJPAYRATEAl
2018	PADJ ix = MR id (PA YTAXAPAYRATEijX

Where:

(A)	“PAYTAXyear” = is. for any year, the actual payroll expense
tax revenue (not including penalties, interest, or administrative fees)
due for that year and collected on or before June 30 o f the following
year:

(B)	“PAYRATEyear” = is. for any year, the payroll expense tax
rate in effect for that year: and

(C)	“MRyear” is computed in accordance with subsection

(d)(3).

(3)	Missing Revenue Factor Computation. The Missing
Revenue Factor (MRyear) is. for any year, the amount by which the
combined revenue actually collected from the payroll expense tax. gross
receipts tax, and business registration fee for the previous year differs
from the sum of expected payroll tax revenue, business registration fees,
and administrative costs for the previous year. Unless the prior year’s
payroll expense tax rate is z.ero. in which case the missing revenue fac-
tor does not apply, the Controller shall compute the missing revenue
factor (MRyear) according to the following table and formulas:

Missing Revenue Factor Computation Table

Tax Year	Missing Revenue (MRyear)
2015	MR„ = ADM,4 + $37,216,000 ERu - (1.125%/1.350%) x PAYTAX 1, - (25%/10%) x GRTAXia- REGi4
2016	MR,, = ADM„ + $38,071,000 ER,, - (0.750%/ PAYRATEid x PAYTAX,, - (50%/25%) x GRTAX,< -
	REG,<
2017	MR,7 = ADM„ +$38,951,650+ ER,, - (0375%/ PAYRATE,.) x PAYTAX,. - (75%/50%) x GRTAX,. - REG,.
2018	MR„ = ADM,, + $39,858,720 + ER„ - GRTAX,? - REG,7

Where:

(A)	“GRTAXyear” is. for any year, the actual gross receipts tax
revenue (not including penalties, interest, or administrative fees) due
for that year and collected on or before June 30 of the following year:

(B)	“REGyear” is. for any year, the business registration fee rev-
enue for the fiscal year beginning in that year and collected on or
before June 30 of that year:

(C)	“ERyear” is the computed in accordance with subsection

(d)(4);

(D)	“$37.216.000”. $38.071.000”. “38.951.650”. and
“39.858.720” are the amounts of total business registration fee revenue
expected for the year prior to the year for which MRyear is being com-
puted: and

(E)	“ADMyear” is an estimate of the additional expense
incurred by the Tax Collector in administering the tax. It shall be
established annually by the Controller and shall not exceed 2 percent
of the sum of the actual payroll expense tax revenue and gross receipts
tax revenue for the prior year.

(4)	Expected Revenue Factor Computation. The Expected
Review Factor (ERyear) is. for any year, an estimate of the amount of
payroll expense tax that would have been collected had a 1 V2 percent
payroll expense tax rate been in effect based on the actual amount of
payroll expense tax collected in the previous year, the previous year’s
payroll expense tax rate, and an assumed growth of 3 percent in the tax
base. Unless the prior year's payroll expense tax rate is z.ero. the
Controller shall compute the expected revenue factor (ERyear)
according to the following table and formulas:

138

Legal Text - Proposition E

38-EN-N12-CP138

ES4

Expected Revenue Factor Computation Table

Tax Year	Expected Revenue (ERvear)
2014	ERu = PAYTAX n x 1.03
2015	ER„ = (1.500%/1.350%) x PAYTAX„ x 1.03
2016	ERm - (1.500%/PAYRATE,5) x PAYTAXl5x 1.03
2017	ER,7 = (1.500%/PAYRATEI6) x PAYTAXx 1.03

SEC. 905-A. SMALL BUSINESS TAX EXEMPTION.

(a)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article,

“small business enterprise#” as hereinafter defined, shall be exempt
from payment of the payroll ftxpense Tfex; provided, however, that a
small business enterprise# shall pay the annual registration fee
pursuant to Section 855 of Article 12.

(b)	The term “small business enterprise” shall mean and include
any taxpayer:

(I) Whose tax liability under this Article, but for this
exemption provision, would not exceed $2,500t#6> or, effective January
1,2009 whose taxable payroll expense does not exceed $250,0004^
andr

(2) Who has filed a tax return by the last date of February
for the preceding tax year. If the taxpayer fails to file a return by that
date, the taxpayer shall be subject to a penalty as specified in
£#ubsection (d).

(c)	For the 2011 tax year, and each second succeeding tax year
the Tax Collector shall increase the ceiling for the £#mall business
-?£ax Exemption (rounded to the nearest $10,000^00 increment) to
reflect increases in the United States Department of Labor’s Bureau of
Labor Statistics consumer price index for all urban customers for the
San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose area for each of the preceding two tax
years.

(d)	In lieu of the penalty specified in Section 6.17-3 of tkts-
Article 6_for failing to file a return, any person who otherwise qualifies
for the small business to: exemption set forth in this Section who fails
to file a return by the last date of February shall pay a penalty as
follows:

(I) If the person’s payroll Expense ?£ax liability under
this Article, but for the small business to exemption under this #£ec-
tion, would be less than $1.000.00$2.250 or more. the penalty shall be
$100.00 plus 10%5 percent of the amount of such liability, for each
month, or fraction thereof, that the return is delinquent, plus an addi-
tional 5 percent each month. or fraction thereof, that the return is
delinquent, up to a maximum o f 20 percent of the tax liability. Any
penalties remaining unpaid for a period of 90 days or more shall be
subject to an additional penalty o f 20 percent o f the amount o f the tax
liability excluding penalties and interest.

(2) Penalties are due and payable when assessed. Unpaid
penalties, interest and fees shall accrue interest at the rate of 1 percent
per month, or fraction thereof from the date that they are assessed
through the date of payment. The total amount of the penalties, interest
and fees shall not exceed theup to a maximum amount equal tool the
person’s payroll liability for such taxthe period but for the small busi-
ness tax exemptions.

(2) If the person’s Payroll Expense Tax liability under this-
Article, but for the small business exemption under this section, would
be $1,000.00 or more- then the penalty shall be $250.00 plus 10% of-
the amount of such liability, for each month, or fraction thereof, that
the return is delinquent, up to a maximum amount equal to the person’s
liability for such tax but for the small business exemption.

(e) The Tax Collector may, in his or her discretion, reduce the
penalty set forth in feubsection M(d) to not less than $100^00 upon a
showing that the late filing of the return was due to reasonable cause
and not due to willful neglect.

SEC. 906E. CREDIT OF SURPLUS BUSINESS TAX REVENUE.

(a) General Rule. Any business, as defined in Section 902.2 of

Part III of the Municipal Code, that does not qualify as a “small
business enterprise” under the provisions of Section 905-A (Small
Business Exemption), shall be allowed a credit against the payroll
^expense Ttax for any taxable year ending within a fiscal year of the
City and County of San Francisco immediately following a fiscal year
in which the City and County of San Francisco has surplus Business
Tax revenue; provided, however, that in no event shall the tax credit
allowable pursuant to this Section reduce a taxpayer’s liability for such
tax to an amount less than zero. For each fiscal year, the Controller
shall determine whether the City and County of San Francisco has
surplus Business Tax revenue. The Controller’s determination whether
the City and County of San Francisco has surplus Business Tax
revenue shall be made on or before the first business day of September
following the close of such fiscal year; provided, however, that for pur-
poses of the 1997/1998 fiscal year, the Controller may make his or her
determination on or before December 31, 1998. The Controller shall
notify the Tax Collector of his or her determination.

(b)	Amount of Credit. For purposes of this Section, the amount
of the tax credit for any taxable year shall be $500t99; provided,
however, that in no event shall the tax credit allowable pursuant to this
Section reduce a taxpayer’s liability for such tax to an amount less than
zero.

(c)	Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to the
terms used in this Section.

(1)	For any fiscal year of the City and County of San
Francisco, the City and County of San Francisco shall be deemed to
have “surplus Business Tax revenue” if and only if the actual Business
Tax revenue for such fiscal year exceeds the anticipated Business Tax
revenue for such fiscal year.

(2)	For any fiscal year of the City and County of San
Francisco, the “actual Business Tax revenue” means the aggregate
amount of tax revenue collected pursuant to Article 12-A (Payroll
Expense Tax Ordinance) and Article 12-B (Business Tax Ordinance) of
Part III of the San Francisco Municipal Code, less the amount of such
revenue for such year allocable solely to tax rate increases in such year.

(3)	For any fiscal year of the City and County of San
Francisco, the “anticipated Business Tax revenue” is an amount equal
to the product of (i) the actual Business Tax revenue for the fiscal year
immediately preceding such fiscal year, multiplied by (ii) 107.5
percent.

(d)	Effective Date. The tax credit provided by this Section shall
be allowable in taxable years ending after 1997 and shall expire by
operation of law on December 31. 2018. The City Attorney shall cause
it to be remoyed from future editions o f the Business and Tax
Regulations Code after that date.

SEC, 909, AMENDMENT OF ORDINANCE,

The Board of Supervisors may amend or repeal Article 12-A of
the Business and Tax Regulations Code without a vote of the people
except as limited by Article XIIIC o f the California Constitution.

Section 7. The San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
Code is hereby amended by amending Sections 6.1-1,6.2-12, 6.2-17,
6.9-1,6.9-2, and 6.9-3 and adding Section 6.24-1 to Article 6, to read
as follows:

SEC. 6.1-1. COMMON ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.

(a) These common administrative provisions shall apply to
Article 6,7,9, 10, 10B, 11, 12, 12-A, 12-A-l. and 12-B of this Code
and to Chapter 105 of the San Francisco Administrative Code, unless
the specific language of either Code otherwise requires. Any provision
of this Article 6 that references or applies to Article 10 shall be deemed
to reference or apply to Article 10B. Any provision of this Article 6
that references or applies to a tax shall be deemed to also
reference or apply to a fee administered pursuant to this Article.

(b)	Unless expressly provided otherwise, all statutory
references in this Article and the Articles set forth in subsection (a)
shall refer to such statutes as amended from time to time and shall
include successor provisions.

(c)	For purposes of this Article, a domestic partnership estab-
lished pursuant to Chapter 62 of the San Francisco Administrative Code
shall be treated the same as a married couple.

SEC. 6.2-12. NEXUS: “ENGAGING IN BUSINESS WITHIN
THE CITY.”

(et) The taxes imposed by Article 12-A (Payroll Expense Tax
Ordinance) and Article 12-A-1 (Gross Receipts Tax Ordinance). and the
registration fee imposed by Article 12 (Business Registration
Ordinance) shall apply to any person engaging in business within the
City unless exempted therefrom under such Articles. A person is
“engaging in business within the City,” within the meaning of this
Article, if that person meets one or more of the following conditions:

(:1-a) The person maintains a fixed place of business within

the City; or

(2b) An employee, representative or agent of the person
maintains a fixed place of business within the City for the benefit or
partial benefit of the person; or

(2-c) The person or one or more of the person’s
employees, representatives or agents owns, rents, leases, or hires
real or personal property within the City for business purposes for the
benefit or partial benefit of the person; or

(4d) The person or one or more of the person’s
employees, representatives or agents regularly maintains a stock of tan-
gible personal property within the City, for sale in the ordinary course
of the person’s business; or

(Se) The person or one or more of the person’s
employees, representatives or agents employs or loans capital on prop-
erty within the City for the benefit or partial benefit of the person; or
(Sf) The person or one or more of the person’s employees,
representatives or agents solicits business within the City for all or part
of any seven days during a tax year; or

(2g) The person or one or more of the person’s employees,
representatives or agents performs work or renders services within the
City for all or part of any seven days during a tax year; or

(Sh) The person or one or more of the person’s employees,
representatives or agents utilizes the streets within the City in connec-
tion with the operation of motor vehicles for business purposes for all
or part of any seven days during a tax year; or

(9f) The person or one or more of the person’s employees,
representatives or agents exercises corporate or franchise powers within
the City for the benefit or partial benefit of the person; or

(4Qj) The person or one or more of the person’s employ-
ees, representatives or agents liquidates a business when the liquidators
thereof hold themselves out to the public as conducting such
business.

SEC. 6.2-17. RETURN. The term “return” means any written state-
ment required to be filed pursuant to Articles 6,7, 9, 10, 10A, 11, 12^
12-A or \2-AzJ_.

SEC. 6.9-1. DETERMINATIONS, RETURNS AND PAYMENTS;
DUE DATE OF TAXES.

Except for jeopardy determinations under Section 6.12-2, and
subject to prepayments required under Section 6.9-2, all amounts of
taxes and fees imposed by Articles 6,7, 9, 10, 10B, 11, andrYl-A and
12-A-l are due and payable, and shall be delinquent if not paid to the
Tax Collector on or before the following dates:

(a)	For the transient hotel occupancy tax (Article 7) and the
parking space occupancy tax (Article 9), for each calendar quarter, on
or before the last day of the month following each respective quarterly
period;

(b)	For the payroll expense tax (Article 12-A) and the gross
receipts tax (Article 12-A-l). on or before the last day of February of
each year;

(c)	For the utility users taxes (Article 10) and the access line tax
(Article 10B), for each monthly period, on or before the last day of the
following month; and

(d)	For the stadium operator admission tax (Article 11), within 5
days after the event, subject to the provisions of Section 804 of Article
11.

SEC. 6.9-2. DETERMINATIONS, RETURNS AND PAYMENTS;
RETURNS.

(a)	Returns. Except as provided in subsection (b) below, on or
before the due date, or in the event of a cessation of business within 15
days of such cessation, each taxpayer shall file a return for the subject
period on a form provided by the Tax Collector, regardless of whether
there is a tax liability owing. A person subject to any tax or required to
remit any third-party tax who has not received a return form or forms
from the Tax Collector is responsible for obtaining such form(s) and
filing a return or returns on or before the due date, or upon the cessa-
tion of business. Returns shall show the amount of tax and any third-
party tax paid or otherwise due for the related period and such other
information as the Tax Collector may require. Each person subject to
any tax or required to remit any third-party tax and required to file the
return shall transmit the return, together with the remittance of the
amount of tax or third-party tax due, to the Tax Collector at the Tax
Collector’s Office on or before the due date specified in Section 6.9-1.

(b)	Minimum Filins Amount.

(1)	With respect to each tax year, the Tax Collector may
exempt from the annual tax return filing requirement those taxpayers
whose liability under the Payroll Expense Tax Ordinance, computed
without regard to the small business exemption set forth in Section
905-A of Article 12-A, is less than the Minimum Filing Amount for
such tax year. For purposes of this Section, the Minimum Filing
Amount shall be an amount of tax liability, computed without regard to
such small business exemption, between zero and $2,250. The Tax
Collector shall specify the Minimum Filing Amount prior to the
beginning of each tax year. If the Tax Collector fails to specify a
Minimum Filing Amount prior to the start of a new tax year, the
Minimum Filing Amount for such tax year shall be the Minimum Filing
Amount for the preceding tax year.

(2)	Notwithstanding am other provision of this Section,
commencing with tax years beginning on or after December 31. 2013.
a taxpayer whose taxable gross receipts in the City under the Gross
Receipts Tax Ordinance (Article 12-A-l). computed without regard to
the small business tax exemption set forth under Section 954.1 of
Article 12-A-l. is less than $500.000. shall be exempt from filing a
gross receipts tax return.

SEC. 6.9-3. DETERMINATIONS, RETURNS AND PAYMENTS;
PREPAYMENTS.

(a) Prepayments and Remittances. Notwithstanding the
due dates otherwise provided in Section 6.9-1, taxpayers shall make
prepayments and remittances of taxes and third-party taxes to the Tax
Collector as follows:

(1)	Hotel and Parking Taxes. The Hotel Tax (Article 7)
and the Parking Tax (Article 9) shall be remitted monthly. Such
monthly remittances shall be due and payable to the Tax Collector on
or before the last day of the month immediately following the month
for which such remittance is due. Taxes paid in the first 2 monthly
remittances of any quarterly period shall be a credit against the total
liability for such third-party taxes for the quarterly period. The third
monthly remittance of any quarterly period shall be in an amount equal
to the total tax liability for the quarterly period, less the amount of any
monthly remittance for such quarter actually paid.

(2)	Payroll Expense Tax and Gross Receipts Tax. The
payroll Expense T£ax (Article 12-A) and the gross receipts tax
(Article 12-A-l) shall be paid in biannual or quarterly installments
as follows:

(A) Small Firm Prepayments. Every person liable for
payment of a total Payroll Expense Tax in excess of $3,750 but less
than or equal to $50,000for any tax year shall pay such tax for the foA

ESjS

lowing tax year in 2 installments. The first installment shall be due and
payable, and shall be delinquent if not paid on or before, August 1st.
The first installment shall be a credit against the person 5 total Payroll
Expense Tax for the tax year in which the first installment is due. The
first installment shall be in an amount equal to one-half of the person’s
estimated Payroll Expense Tax for such tax year. The estimated liability
shall be computed by using 52 percent of the person's taxable payroll
expense (as defined in Section 902.1 of Article 12-A) for the preceding
tax year, and the rate of tax applicable to the tax year in which the first
installment is due. The second installment shall be reported and paid
on or before the last day of February of the following year. The second
installment shall be in an amount equal to the person Is total Payroll
Expense Tax for the subject tax year, less the amount of the first install-
ment and other tax prepayments for such tax year, if any, actually paid.

(B) Large Firm Prepayments .Due Dates. Every
person liable for payment of a total /payroll Expense Ttax or gross
receipts toxin excess of $50.000 for any tax year shall pay such tax for
the following subject tax year in 4 quarterly installments. The first, sec-
ond and third quarterly installments shall be due and payable, and shall
be delinquent if not paid on or before, May 1st April 30. August IstJuly
31 and November IstOctober 31st. respectively, of the subject tax year.
The fourth installment shall be reported and paid on or before the last
day of February following the subject tax year.

(B) Payments.

(i)	Installment Payments. The first, second and
third quarterly installments shall be a credit against the person’s total
payroll Expense Tfax or gross receipts tax, as applicable, for the
subject tax year in which such first, second and third quarterly
installments are due. Such quarterly installments each shall be in an
amount equal to one-quarter of the person's estimated Payroll Expense
Tax liability for such tax vccmThe fourth quarterly installment shall be
in an amount equal to the person’s total payroll expense tax or gross
receipts tax liability for the subject tax year, as applicable. less the
amount of the payroll expense tax or gross receipts tax first. second
and third quarterly installments and other tax payments, if any,
actually paid.

(ii)	The estimated liability for such tax ycar-
Payroll Expense Tax Installments. A person's first, second and third
quarterly installment payments of payroll expense tax for any tax year
shall be computed by using:

7. 104 percent of tThe person’s taxable
payroll expense (as defined in Section 902.1 ofunder Article 12-A) for
the preceding tax year.each quarter: and

2.	/The rate of tax applicable to the tax
year in which the first, second and third quarterly installments are due.
The fourth installment shall be reported and paid on or before the last
day of February of the following year. The fourth quarterly installment
shall be in an amount equal to the person ’5 total Payroll Expense Tax
liability for the subject tax year, less the amount of the first, second and
third quarterly installments and other tax prepayments, if any, actually
paid.

3.	Notwithstanding the foregoing. and
except for taxpayers under Section 953.8 of Article 12-A-l. for tax
years commencing after December 31. 2013. the first, second and third
quarterly installments shall be computed using the rates set forth in the
following table:

Tax Year	1st, 2nd and 3rd Installments
2014	1.350%
2015	1.125%
2016	0.750%
2017	0.375%
2018	0.000%

The fourth quarterly installment shall be in an amount equal to
the person’s total payroll expense tax liability for the subject tax year,
less the amount of the first. second and third quarterly installments and
other tax payments, if any, actually paid. A person’s total payroll
expense tax liability shall be computed using the rate for the subject
tax year computed, certi fied, and published by the Controller under
Section 903.1 of Article 12-A or as otherwise provided in this Article.

(iii)	Gross Receipts Tax Installments. A per-
son ’s first, second, and third quarterly installments of gross receipts tax
for any tax year shall be computed by using:

1.	The person’s taxable gross receipts (as
defined under Article 12-A-l) for each quarter: and

2.	The rate of tax applicable to the tax
year in which the first, second and third quarterly installments are due.

3.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, and
except for taxpayers under Section 953.8 of Article 12-A-L for tax
years commencing after December 31. 2013. the first, second and third
quarterly installments shall be computed using the rates applicable to
the person’s taxable gross receipts under Sections 953.1 through 953.7
of Article 12-A-L multiplied by the percentages set forth in the
following table:

Tax Year	1st, 2nd and 3rd Installments
2014	10%
2015	25%
2016	50%
2017	75%
2018	100%

The fourth quarterly installment shall be in an amount equal to
the person’s total gross receipts tax liability for the subject tax year,
less the amount of the first. second and third quarterly installments and
other tax payments, if any, actually paid. A person’s total gross
receipts tax liability shall be computed using the rate for the subject tax
year computed. certified. and published by the Controller under Section
959 of Article 12-A-l. or as otherwise provided in that Article.

(b)	Tax Prepayment Penalties. Every person who fails to pay
any tax prepayment required under this Section before the relevant
delinquency date shall pay a penalty in the amount of 5 percent of the
amount of the delinquent tax prepayment per month, or fraction
thereof, up to 20 percent in the aggregate, and shall also pay interest on
the amount of the delinquent tax prepayment and penalties from the
date of delinquency at the rate of 1 percent per month, or fraction
thereof, for each month the prepayment is delinquent, until paid.

(c)	Hotel and Parking Taxes. An operator subject to the Hotel
Tax (Article 7) or the Parking Tax (Article 9) shall make monthly
remittances in the amount of the actual tax owed.

(d)	Forms and Adjustments. Tax prepayments required under
this Section shall be accompanied by a tax prepayment form prepared
by the Tax Collector, but failure of the Tax Collector to furnish the
taxpayer with a tax prepayment form shall not relieve the taxpayer
from any tax prepayment obligation. The Tax Collector may, in
writing, adjust the amount of a tax prepayment if the taxpayer can
establish in writing by clear and convincing evidence that the first
installment of semi-annual tax prepayments, or first, second or third
monthly installment of a quarterly tax prepayment, will amount to more
than one-half or one-quarter, respectively, of the person’s total tax lia-
bility for the tax year in which the installment is due.

SEC. 6.24-1. AMENDMENT OF ORDINANCE.

The Board of Supervisors may amend or repeal Article 6 of the
Business and Tax Regulations Code without a vote of the people except
as limited by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution.

Section 8. Effective Date.	water source is the Hetch Hetchy Reservoir in Yosemite

This measure shall go into effect 10 days after the date the	National Park because the system is called the Hetch

official vote count is declared by the Board of Supervisors.	Hetchy system. In fact, Hetch Hetchy Reservoir is just one

of nine reservoirs that store water for San Francisco.

Section 9. Severability.

Except as provided in Section 11 of this Ordinance, if any
section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is for
any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or
portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and
effect. The people of the City and County of San Francisco hereby
declare that, except as provided in Section 11, they would have
adopted each section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be declared
invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this
Ordinance are severable.

Section 10. Savings Clause.

(a)	No section, clause, part or provision of this Ordinance shall
be construed as requiring the payment of any tax that would be in
violation of the Constitution or laws of the United States or of the
Constitution or laws of the State of California. Except as provided in
Section 965(b) of Article 12-A-l of this Ordinance, if any section,
clause, part or provision of this Ordinance, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstances, is held invalid or unconstitutional, the
remainder of this Ordinance, including the application of such part or
provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected
thereby and shall continue in full force and effect. To this end, the
provisions of this Ordinance are severable.

(b)	If the imposition of the gross receipts tax in Section 953 of
Article 12-A-l of this Ordinance is held invalid or unconstitutional in
a final court determination, the remainder of this Ordinance shall be
null and void and of no force and effect.

Section 11. In enacting this Ordinance, the voters intend to
amend only those words, phrases, paragraphs, subsections, sections,
articles, numbers, punctuation, charts, diagrams, or any other constitu-
ent part of the Business and Tax Regulations Code that are explicitly
shown in this legislation as additions and deletions in accordance with
the “Note” that appears under the official title of the legislation.

Proposition F

NOTE: Additions are single-underline italics Times New Roman:
deletions are strike-through italics Times New Roman.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San Francisco:

Section 1. Title

This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the “Water

Sustainability and Environmental Restoration Planning Act

of 2012.”

Section 2. Findings & Declarations

(a)	Water is an essential natural resource that San Francisco
depends on for its health, well-being, and public safety. San
Francisco should develop a sustainable water system that
will provide reliable supplies to meet needs throughout the
city in anticipation of the effects of global warming and the
probabilities of droughts and earthquakes, as well as other
natural and unnatural disasters.

(b)	The primary source of water for the City of San Francisco is
the Tuolumne River. Many people believe the city’s primary

(c)	San Francisco’s rights to use Tuolumne River water were
established in 1890 and exist independent of its storage
facilities in the Tuolumne River watershed. Nothing in this
ordinance shall weaken these rights.

(d)	San Francisco does not recycle any water; comparatively,
the Municipal Water District of Orange County recycles 92
million gallons a day.

(e)	In 1930, San Francisco used 14.5 million gallons a day from
its groundwater wells; today, San Francisco uses only 2.2
million gallons a day as it has failed to maintain and
manage its groundwater basin.

(f)	San Francisco receives an average annual rainfall of 20
inches which is the equivalent of roughly half of San
Francisco’s annual water consumption. Currently, virtually
all of the City’s rainfall is directed into the sewage system,
treated with chemicals and discharged into the San
Francisco Bay and the Pacific Ocean.

(g)	Increased development of water resources within San
Francisco and the Bay Area would diversify San Francisco’s
regional water system, and improve system reliability in the
event of drought or outages caused by earthquake or other
events.

(h)	San Francisco does not currently filter most of its drinking
water supply. The San Francisco Department of Public
Health warns consumers with compromised immune
systems such as HIV to consult a doctor prior to drinking
tap water.

(i)	In 2010, the incident rate of giardia, a pathogen commonly
found in rivers and reservoirs, among residents of San
Francisco was 370% higher than the state average. The
incident rate of giardia in San Mateo County, where almost
all water service is provided by San Francisco, was 65%
higher than the state average.

(j)	Federal law requires San Francisco to develop and utilize all
local water resources before importing water from its
existing facilities that store its Tuolumne River supplies.

(k)	The San Francisco water system as it is currently configured
requires significant, on-going habitat destruction within
Yosemite National Park.

(l)	The Hetch Hetchy Valley, which is currently used as a water
storage facility by the City of San Francisco, is located in
Yosemite National Park at the entry point to the Grand
Canyon of the Tuolumne River. It is a glacier-carved granite
canyon with large waterfalls cascading down the canyon
walls. John Muir referred to Hetch Hetchy Valley as an
exact counterpart to Yosemite Valley.

(m)	San Francisco is the only city in the country which has been
allowed to construct a reservoir within an existing National
Park. Restoration of Hetch Hetchy Valley will create jobs,
draw tourists from around the world and allow school
children to experience a unique environmental restoration
project of awe-inspiring scale.


<fullend>