BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

Jr

Official Use Only: Date Stamp

■CHIVED

.lameda County

AUG 1 e 2012

PS* f>f Voit^fc

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
|„ri.dic«o„N™e:cityofpiedrr|ont	Election Date: 2q/| 2 'j 'j Qg

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.

Insert ballot titlq/question text here:

To maintain essential police, fire, and paramedic service, to prevent the
reduction in maintenance in City parks, greenspaces and other public areas,
and to prevent the loss of youth, family, and senior recreational and safety
, services, shall the City of Piedmont continue to authorize a parcel tax,
replacing the existing Municipal Services Tax, as is more specifically set forth
I in Ord. 707 N.S. which is on file with the Piedmont City Clerk?

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS___________________________

Two Thirds

FULL TEXT OPTION
Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

B YES (note: electronic version must be submitted via e-mail or on a CD)

□ NO

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
Print Name:

Date:

2012-08-10

COIN	tl^CT INFORMATION (for office use)	CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)
Phone 4		Fh°” * (510) 420-3040
E-Mail:		E-Mail/Website:  jtulloch@ci.piedmont.ca.us

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE

AUG 0 9 2012

CITY CLERK
C8TY OF PIEDMONT

Measure______would continue an existing Municipal Services Tax that has been collected

in Piedmont since 1980 Every four years thereafter, the voters have approved extensions of the
tax.

Revenue from the Municipal Services Tax goes to the City's General Fund and therefore
can be used to fill gaps when residents' demand for city services exceeds the funds generated by
real property taxes, sales taxes and other revenue. The General Fund provides Piedmonters with
basic services such as police and fire protection, street maintenance, building regulations, library
services, recreation, parks maintenance, planning and public works.

Measure X does not increase the current tax rate or change the procedure for setting the
rate; it merely extends the life of the tax for another four years to June 30, 2017 The tax rate
would continue to vary by parcel depending on the size and the nature of a parcel’s use (i.e,
residential/commercial) Advanced notice and a public hearing would continue to be provided
before the City Council sets the annual tax rate.

The Municipal Service Tax must be used locally and will undergo annual financial

review

A “Yes” vote on Measure________means the voter is in favor of continuing the existing tax.

A “No” vote on Measure_________means the voter is opposed and the existing tax would no

longer be collected.

Two-thirds (66%) of the qualified voters casting a vote in favor would approve Measure

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure_______ The full text of Measure

_ is printed in the Voter's Information Pamphlet and is also available on the City of Piedmont's
website at. http://www.ci.piedmont.ca.us.

OAK #4831-0220-5456 vl

Argument in Favor of Measure

Measure____RENEWS an existing tax that provides funds to maintain existing city

services. Measure____provides funding for Piedmont’s: superb police, fire and

paramedic services; library access, and other services as well as park and playground
maintenance; street and sidewalk repairs; capital improvements; equipment
maintenance and replacement.

For the past 32 years, Piedmont voters have approved a special tax called the
Municipal Services Tax (“the parcel tax”) to supplement our city budget. The average
property pays slightly less than $400 per year. Unlike most cities in California,

Piedmont receives virtually no sales tax revenue. Without Measure__, cuts in essential

city services will be unavoidable.

Measure____is not a new tax; it RENEWS an existing tax. The citizens who served on

both the Municipal Tax Review Committee (MTRC) and the Budget Advisory and
Financial Planning Committee determined that renewal of the existing Municipal
Services Tax is essential if Piedmont is to maintain its high standards of municipal
services. The MTRC report stated: “Parcel tax revenue has become an essential
component of the City’s fiscal picture, totaling about $1.5 million annually in a general
fund expenditure plan of about $21.5 million. Therefore, it will be essential to renew the
parcel tax at its current level before it expires on June 30, 2013.”

All the money raised by Measure___will stay here in our community to provide services

and benefits to Piedmont’s residents. The Municipal Services Tax would not be
necessary if the State of California was not taking approximately $1.6 million per year in
property tax revenues from Piedmont. As a special tax, parcel tax revenue cannot be
diverted by the State.

The City Council unanimously supports RENEWAL of the existing Municipal Services
Tax, because Measure_____is essential for the maintenance of city services.

Please Vote YES ON MEASURE

Short-term taxes don’t solve long-term problems. Thus, the majority of the Council-
appointed Municipal Tax Review Committee (MTRC) opposes Measure_________.

In recent months, MTRC and the Council’s Budget Advisory Committee reported on the
City’s long-term fiscal problems, determining that current trends are unsustainable.
These revolve around over-spending and out-of-control budgets. The Council has so
far ignored the most serious recommendations presented. Ill-advised spending
continues its upward trend.

Among the worst examples which have led to millions of dollars of unneeded expense
are:

•	The Piedmont Hills undergrounding fiasco

•	The aborted Blair Park plan

•	Overstaffing

•	Higher costs for service than in comparable small cities

•	Uncontrolled employee benefit contributions

The last category has been rising at double-digit rates for years because the Council
chose the richest pension plans in California without adequate analysis or appropriate
employee cost-sharing. Thus, today Piedmont has a $40 million unfunded liability for
these benefits - twice the size of the annual budget, a future obligation of $10,000 for
every household in Piedmont and a risk to taxpayers and employees alike.

Rather than tackling these problems, the Council has used the parcel tax as a bail-out
to paper over the lack of budgetary control. The parcel tax does not support critical
services but simply gives the Council a way to avoid making hard decisions.

The majority of MTRC now says it’s time to stop the bail-out and force those decisions.
The Council will have to set priorities and establish proper controls.

We are not opposed in principle to parcel taxes. If the Council takes needed actions to
control costs, we will support one for essential purposes in the future. Today, however,
the tax is not being used wisely or efficiently.

Insist on fiscal responsibility from the Council and vote No on Measure_.

Direct Argument In Favor Measure Y

Signers

1.	JohnY. Chiang
Mayor

2.	Valerie Matzger
Former Mayor

3.	Bill Hosier

Chair, Budget Advisory and Financial Planning Committee

4.	Mary M. Geong

Member, Budget Advisory and Financial Planning Committee

5.	Steve Hollis

Member, Municipal Tax Review Committee

Direct Argument Against Measure Y
Signers

1.	Ryan Gilbert

Member, Municipal Tax Review Committee

2.	Tamra Hege

Member, Municipal Tax Review Committee

3.	Eric Lindquist

Member, Municipal Tax Review Committee

4.	Steve Weiner

Member, Municipal Tax Review Committee

5.	Michael Rancer

Chair, Municipal Tax Review Committee

Rebuttal to argument opposing Measure Y

For over three decades. Piedmont voters have supported the Municipal Services parcel tax which
provides essential funding to maintain municipal services: police, fire, library services,
paramedics, recreation, street repair and maintenance, and parks.

The opponents to Measure Y want to eliminate this critical source of funding because they are
unhappy with the way Piedmont is managed. They believe that the way to get their way is to cut
$1.6 million from our community budget — money that even they have described as essential to
the running of the city. The following quote is from the Municipal Tax Review Committee:

“Parcel tax revenue has become an essential component of the City's fiscal picture.

... it will be essential to renew the parcel tax at its current level..."

Municipal Tax Review Committee Chair: Michael Rancer

Measure Y is not a new tax — it just extends the current tax. Without Measure Y Piedmont will
face significant cuts to city services. Countless meetings will be held and, in the end, it is likely
that service levels will be reduced or the city will not set aside funds for replacement and repair

of assets.

This measure has nothing to do with undergrounding, play fields or pensions. It is merely an
extension of a tax we have been paying for 32 years.

Vote YES on Measure Y because you value the services our City provides to the community.
Every dollar stays in Piedmont to benefit all Piedmonters and the quality of life we enjoy.

REBUTTAL ARGUMENT - MEASURE Y

The proponents are misrepresenting the MTRC position. The MTRC unanimously recognized
that "passing the current parcel tax without addressing expense commitments is not fiscally
prudent." The MTRC supplemental statement delineated expectations for the Council to control
expenses, manage risk and set budget priorities before seeking tax renewal. Because the Council
has made inadequate progress on critical expectations, the MTRC majority opposes Measure Y.

Despite dangerously low reserves, the Council wasted millions on undergrounding, the pool
takeover, Blair Park, and uncontrolled fringe benefits. Piedmont's police and fire services cost
50-75% more per household than in comparable small, affluent cities. In the past two years, the
MTRC, Budget Advisory Committee and Undergrounding Task Force have given the Council a
road map to fiscal soundness, yet the Council still hasn’t acted on these groups' most important
recommendations. Piedmont’s voters must now force the issue by demonstrating they don't
support poor financial decisions and wasteful spending.

Scare tactics aside, essential services are NOT at stake. The parcel tax provides only 7% of the
City’s budget. The Council can ask for the parcel tax renewal again, after instituting needed
reforms and regaining our confidence, and seek service efficiencies now while phasing in benefit
reforms. Piedmont cannot afford to let the Council “kick the can down the road.” If the Council
continues to delay reforms, the possible consequences could be serious, including inability to
meet obligations to our citizens and valued employees.

Put the brakes on the Council’s wasteful spending. Vote NO on Measure Y.

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure Y

Signers

1.	JohnY. Chiang
Mayor

2.	Valeria Matzger
Former Mayor

3.	Bill Hosier

Chair, Budget Advisory and Financial Planning Committee

4.	Mary M. Geong

Member, Budget Advisory and Financial Planning Committee

5.	Steve Hollis

Member, Municipal Tax Review Committee

Rebuttal to Argument In Favor Measure Y
Signers

1.	Michael Rancer

Chair, Municipal Tax Review Committee

2.	Mary B. Heller

Member, Task Force on Undergrounding

3.	Kathleen Quenneville

Member, Task Force on Undergrounding

4.	Tim Rood

Member, Budget Advisory and Financial Planning Committee

5.	Rick Schiller
Piedmont Taxpayer

ORDINANCE NO. 707 N.S.

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20B
OF THE PIEDMONT CITY CODE PROVIDING FOR A SPECIAL
MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX

The City Council of the City of Piedmont hereby ordains as follows:
SECTION 1

It is the intent of the City Council of the City of Piedmont in adopting this Ordinance to
provide for the continuation of an excise tax, specifically a non-ad valorem parcel tax to be
imposed as a special tax for the availability and provision of municipal services in Piedmont.
Further, the availability and provision of City services and the demand for City services is closely
tied to the uses and occupancies of property within the City, and it is logical to base such tax on
use and occupancy of improved real property.

SECTION 2

Chapter 20B of the Piedmont City Code is hereby amended in its entirety to read as
follows:

“CHAPTER 20B
MUNICIPAL SERVICES SPECIAL TAX

SECTION 20B.1 AUTHORITY TO ADOPT MEASURE

This Ordinance and the tax authorized herein is adopted pursuant to the provisions of
Article 3.7 of Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code (Sections
53720-53730) and the California Constitution Articles XI, Section 5, XIII A, Section 4 and XIII
D, Section 3(a)(2). The tax authorized herein is based on use and occupancy of improved real
property.

SECTION 20B.2 AUTHORIZATION TO LEVY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL TAX

If in any fiscal year commencing on or after July 1, 2013, the City Council shall determine
that municipal services, including, but not limited to, police and fire protection, street
maintenance, building regulations, library services, recreation, parks maintenance, planning and
public works and similar services, are necessary for the public good, welfare and safety, and that
the cost of making available such services will exceed the amount of funds generated through
other revenue and income of the City for such services, then it may levy a special tax for such
fiscal year on each parcel of real property within the City in a manner provided herein. This is a
non-ad valorem parcel tax which, pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIID, Section 3,
shall be deemed a special tax as defined pursuant to Section 53721 of the California Government
Code.

SECTION 20B.3 DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT TO BE RAISED

Each year concurrent with the adoption of the annual budget, the City Council will
determine the total amount of expenditures necessary to provide adequate levels of municipal
services as defined in Section 20B.2 and deduct therefrom the projected revenue to be collected
from sources other than this special tax. The difference, if any, shall be the maximum amount of
funds to be derived from the tax authorized by this Ordinance for such year.

SECTION 20B.4 MAXIMUM TAX RATE/METHOD OF ASSESSMENT

After determining the amount of tax to be raised under Section 20B.3, the City Council
shall apportion said amount among the parcels of real property within the City not exempted by
law or exempted pursuant to Section 20B.12, as follows:

BASIC MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX MAXIMUM RATE SCHEDULE

Developed	Parcels	Divided	by

Per Parcel According to	Single Family	Commercial	Multi-Family	Tax Code Area

Size_______________________Residence_______Properties	Residence________Line____________

0 to 4,999 sq. ft.	$366
5,000 to 9,999 sq. ft.	$411
10,000 to 14,999 sq. ft.	$476
15,000 to 20,000 sq. ft.	$542
Over 20,000 sq. ft.	$617
0 to 10,000 sq. ft.	$617
Over 10,000 sq. ft.	$925
Per Dwelling Unit	$254
Per Parcel	$375
The foregoing tax rate schedule shall apply for the 2013/2014 tax year commencing July 1, 2013, and ending on June 30, 2014. For each tax year thereafter commencing with the 2014/2015 tax year, the foregoing tax rate schedule shall be adjusted as follows:	
An amount equal to the percentage increase or decrease in the Consumer Price Index	

(CPI) for all Urban Consumers (All items) (Base Year 1984 = 100) (Not Seasonally Adjusted) for
the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, California area, as published by the United States
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, for the period from December 2012 to
December of the fiscal year immediately prior to the year in which the percentage adjustment will
apply, multiplied by the specific tax rate in the foregoing Maximum Municipal Services Tax
Maximum Rate schedule. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum percentage increase of
this tax as compared to the same tax in the prior fiscal year shall be 4%.

2

For purposes of example only, if the maximum tax rate in the 2013/14 fiscal year for a
single family resident parcel of 5,000 square feet is $399.00, and the Consumer Price Index for
December 2012 is 100 and for December 2013 is 103, the increase of 3 is a 3% increase, meaning
an additional maximum tax of $ 11.97 for the 2014/2015 fiscal year or a total maximum tax of
$410.97 for such fiscal year.

The records of the Alameda County Assessor as of March 1 of the fiscal year immediately
preceding the fiscal year in which the special taxes are payable shall determine whether or not any
particular parcel is unimproved for purposes of this Ordinance. All improved parcels which are
located entirely within the City of Piedmont shall be subject to the special taxes assessed pursuant
to Chapter 20B. In addition, on improved parcels which are located partially within the City of
Piedmont, all such parcels whose residents are eligible to register to vote in Piedmont and/or all
such parcels which are eligible to receive services from the City of Piedmont pursuant to the 911
Emergency System as of March 1 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which
the special taxes are payable shall be subject to the special taxes assessed pursuant to Chapter
20B. Each parcel shall be taxed pursuant to this Section 20B.4 according to its actual use as of
March 1 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which any such special tax is
payable.

SECTION 20B.5 HEARING. TAX LIEN AND INCLUSION IN CITY TAXES

Prior to levying a tax under this Ordinance in any fiscal year, the City Council shall
conduct a public hearing on the proposed tax. Such hearing may be conducted simultaneously
with a hearing relating to the annual budget for the fiscal year in which the special tax is to apply.
Notice of such hearing shall be posted on the official bulletin board at City Hall at least 10 days
prior to the hearing. All of the information and material which the City Council intends to
consider at such hearing and the proposed amount of tax to be raised shall be made available to
the public by being on file in the office of the City Clerk for at least 10 days prior to said hearing.

Following said hearing, the Council may adopt a resolution fixing the amount of tax to be

raised.

SECTION 20B.6 COLLECTION

Pursuant to Government Code section 53087.4, any special tax authorized under this
chapter shall be collected by the Tax Collector of the County of Alameda. Any charges made by
such Tax Collector shall be paid out of funds deducted from the gross proceeds of the tax.

SECTION 20B.7 INCREASE APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the City of
Piedmont will be increased by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax in each of the
years covered by this Ordinance.

SECTION 20B.8 FUNDING AND EXPENDING PROCEEDS

Proceeds of any tax levied under this Ordinance shall be deposited into the General Fund
of the City.

SECTION 2OB.9 UNEXPENDED RESIDUE

To the extent it has actually determined by an audit of the City’s finances that there is an
unexpended residue (as defined hereafter) of any money raised by the City under this Ordinance
for a particular fiscal year, then the City Council shall use such residue in the next fiscal year for
which the tax under this Ordinance has not been established, and shall reduce the amount of the
tax for such subsequent fiscal year by the amount of the unexpended residue. Unexpended
residue of any money raised by the City under this Ordinance may only be used in the succeeding
year for the purposes stated in this Ordinance or and to the extent there is an unexpended residue
for the 2012-2013 fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, such unexpended residue shall be returned to
the taxpayer on the same pro rata basis as originally levied by a refund or by a reduction in
subsequent taxes. “Unexpended residue” as used in this Section 20B.9 shall mean the amount the
General Fund Reserve of the City exceeds twenty-five percent (25%) of the actual general
operating expenses of the City in the fiscal year in question. “General Fund Reserve” as used in
this Section 20B.9 is defined as the unencumbered balance maintained in the general fund for the
purpose of meeting unforeseen expenses, unrealized revenue estimates, or other emergencies of
the City.

SECTION 20B. 10 SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other provisions or applications, and to this end
the provisions this Ordinance are declared to be severable.

SECTION2QB.il DURATION. AMENDMENT OR REPEAL

The authorization to levy a tax under this Ordinance shall expire with the fiscal year 2016-2017
ending June 30, 2017. This Ordinance, or any provision thereof, may only be amended or
repealed by approval of a two-thirds majority of the voters voting on the proposition at any
initiative or referendum election.

This Ordinance shall be adopted, if approved by a two-thirds majority of the voters voting
on the proposition at an election to be held on Tuesday, November 6, 2012, and shall be effective
commencing with the fiscal year that begins on July 1, 2013; provided that the provisions of
Chapter 20B in effect on November 6, 2012 shall remain in effect for all purposes relating to the
taxes provided thereunder through the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013.

SECTION 20B. 12 EXEMPTIONS

The City Council may from time to time by Council resolution adopt exemptions to the tax
measures set further herein.”

4

SECTION 3

This Ordinance shall require passage by a 4/5ths vote of the City Council in compliance
with the provisions of Section 53724(b) of the California Government Code, shall be posted at
City Hall after its second reading by the City Council for at least 30 days, and shall not become
effective unless approved by a two-thirds majority of the voters voting on the proposition at an
election to be held on Tuesday, November 6, 2012.

5