MEASURE E

Davis Joint Unified School District	
To offset the continued loss of significant state funding, shall the Davis Joint Unified School District be authorized to continue a special tax for a period of 4 years not to exceed the base annual rate of $20.00 per dwelling unit for multi-dwelling parcels and $204.00 per parcel for all other parcels, and levy up to an additional $242.00 to cover State funding shortfalls ONLY if the November 2012 Temporary Taxes to Fund Education initiative does not pass?	YES
	NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY YOLO COUNTY COUNSEL

DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIALTAX PROPOSAL-MEASURE E

This analysis of the special tax proposed by the Davis Joint
Unified School District is prepared and submitted pursuant to Elections
Code Section 9500.

This proposal, if approved by the voters, would authorize the
Davis Joint Unified School District (“District”) to continue a special tax
to support the District's schools. It also authorizes the District to levy
an additional special tax should the November 2012 Temporary Taxes
to Fund Education initiative not pass.

Special tax revenues would be used to maintain the District’s
2012-13 funding levels, minimize effects of further State budget cuts
and continue the programs and services currently funded by Measure
A, including:

1)	Reduced class sizes for K-6, English and Math;

2)	Availability of classes in core subjects such as science and
history;

3)	Availability of multiple foreign language programs;

4)	Availability of elective course offerings such as fine art and
Career Technical Education;

5)	Retaining counseling staff;

6)	Continued targeted achievement support in Reading and
Math; and

7)	Continued availability of school site safety and support staff.

If the measure is successful, the District’s Board of Trustees would
be authorized to levy a parcel tax for a period of four (4) years, from
July 1, 2013 to June 30, 2017, at an annual rate of up to $20.00 per
dwelling unit for all multi-dwelling unit parcels within the District and
$204.00 per parcel for all other parcels within the District. Should the
November 2012 Temporary Taxes to Fund Education initiative not pass
statewide election, the annual rate shall be up to $20.00 per dwelling
unit for all multi-dwelling unit parcels within the District and $446.00 per
parcel for all other parcels. Commencing in the 2014-2015 tax year,

the rates as set forth above shall be adjusted annually for inflation by
the change in the “Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers
California (1982-84=100)" published by the U.S. Department of Labor,
Bureau of Statistics. Parcels belonging to persons 65 years of age
or older who occupy their parcels as a principal residence and single
family parcels owned by one or more person receiving Supplemental
Social Security Income (SSI) shall be exempt from payment of the
special tax upon application for exemption.

The measure calls for annual review by an independent Citizen’s
Oversight Committee of the expenditures supported by the special tax.

ff two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on the measure vote
for approval, the measure will succeed and the proposed special tax
can be levied. If less than two-thirds vote for approval, the measure will
fail and the proposed special tax cannot be levied. The electors who
will be entitled to vote on the measure are qualified electors residing
within the boundaries of the Davis Joint Unified School District.

The procedures followed for the proposed special tax, including
the election process for the voters’ consideration of the proposal, are
as specified in the California Government Code, Education Code and
Elections Code. This special tax proposal has no effect on existing law.

Dated: August 9,2012.

ROBYN TRUITT DRIVON, COUNTY COUNSEL

By_________________________________________

HOPE P. WELTON, DEPUTY

Solano 48/27

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Vote Yes onE to continue essential local support for our Davis schools.

Vote Yes on E to renew funding previously approved by Davis voters
that has made all the difference in making our schools better.

Vote Yes on Eto protect core Davis programs by authorizing new local
funding ONLY if the statewide measure, Proposition 30, fails.

By law, cuts triggered by Proposition 30's failure will be automatic and
immediate. Davis student programs will lose over $3.5 million this
school year. Measure E would backfill the loss of those state funds.

Davis education programs have already been cut --even with Measure
E. The school district responded to state reductions by eliminating
administrative positions, cutting programs and increasing class sizes.

Parents and the community have also done their part through generous
donations, while teachers and other employees have agreed to pay
cuts to save jobs and programs.

Measure E is a renewal of an existing $204 per year parcel tax,
coupled with local revenue authority to protect against pending state
funding reductions.

For less than a dollar a day Measure E continues local funding to:

•	Save the seventh period at secondary schools and protect critical
core and elective programs.

•	Maintain class sizes in elementary schools so students benefit
from extra teacher attention.

•	Ensure school site safety and counselors on campuses.

•	Save education programs and teacher jobs.

Measure E does not raise rents and continues a voluntary exemption
for senior homeowners.

Measure E continues strict, independent citizen oversight of all parcel
tax expenditures..

Strong Davis schools are the foundation of a safe, thriving community
that makes every neighborhood better. Vote Yes on E for our kids and
for our community.

Vote Yes on E lor continued excellence in our Davis schools.

s/ Helen Thomson, former school board member,

Yolo County supervisor, and assembly member,
s/ Herb Bauer, retired Professor of Medicine, and senior advocate,
s/ Rosalie Paine, downtown business leader, and parent,
s/ Val Dolcini, community leader
s/ Renner Burkle, UC Davis student organizer

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Measure E seeks the continuance of Measure A which is a questionable
temporary parcel tax emergency funding measure of $200. per year.
Additionally, Measure C which was a $320 per year parcel tax measure
passed just months ago.

In the past five years the School Board has placed an excessive and
abusive number of four parcel tax measures on the ballot: Measures Q,
W, A and C. The overall parcel tax rate keeps rising and is negatively
impacting the economic well being of average middle income parcel
property owners and Davis now also has the highest initial housing
prices of any district in the local area.

Many school related fund raising organizations have been involved
with activities providing for extra funding for the operation of the
schools. The fund raising activities by these organizations as opposed
to the payment of special taxes are a voluntary means of raising
additional revenue among contributors. These additional parcel taxes
are an involuntary means of obtaining such additional revenue from
the contributors and are likely to negatively impede on the cost of living
situation among those parcel owners that are among the economically
vulnerable in the district with personal circumstances that place them
outside of the exemption eligible criteria to the tax of being 65 years
of age or older or whom are SSDI recipients. Using voluntary means
to obtain such additional revenue is a better idea than using an
involuntary means such as additional taxation from contributors.

Vote No on Measure E.

s/ Thomas Randall, Jr

Coordinator and Treasurer, No School Board Taxes
Political Action Committee (PAC)

Solano 48 / 28

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

VOTE NO ON MEASURE E: A DOUBLE-WHAMMY TO THE
TAXPAYERS!

The School Board claims Measure E is a renewal of Measure A. Not
so. Measure A was presented as a temporary two year emergency
measure approved in May last year by the slim margin of 83 votes, for
taxpayers to pay 6.4 million over two years. Measure E will force us to
pay 16 million dollars over 5 years, clearly a new more expensive tax.
Not sooner the ink was dry on another tax, Measure C passed.

Measure A raised the price of these taxes by 62%. You are paying
$520 per year for three measures Q,W,C, plus A. Measure E has an
automatic increase per year, based on the consumer index, so you will
not even know the amount you will pay until you get your tax bill.

On this same ballot, is Proposition 30 supported by Governor Brown
seeking to raise taxes to support schools. On top of that this School
Board untimely and unwisely has placed Measure E on the ballot at
the same time, a double-whammy to the taxpayers.

It is deceptive and unethical. Measure E will exempt wealthy seniors
from paying the tax but wants their votes to help pass the measure
forcing someone else to pay. There is no difference in school services
for a child whose parents live in an apartment than those from parents
living in a home. Yet under Measure E, those living in apartments will
pay $20 but those living in a home will pay $204 plus an additional
$242 if the Governor initiative does not pass bringing the total tax to
$766, a double-whammy foryou, likely as long as you owe your home.

Enough is enough. VOTE NO on E.

More information: httD://www.noschoolboardtaxes.ora

s/ Jose J. Granda, PhD
s/ Thomas Randall Jr.

Davis parents and teachers ask you to Vote Yes on Measure E.

The Political Action Committee opponents of Measure E are putting
their own political agendas ahead of the children of Davis. That is
unacceptable. This is no time for politics. It is time to recognize the
needs in our schools and do something about it.

Arguments against Measure E are misleading and if followed, send us
down the wrong path.

Measure E is simple. It renews an existing parcel tax and gives
the school board authority to raise revenue if the state measure -
Proposition 39 - fails.

Measure E is a responsible plan of local action to protect quality
education in Davis.

Davis is different because we value education, learning and giving
every child the full opportunity to succeed.

But state budget cuts have left our classrooms bursting at the seams
and reduced core educational programs. Students are falling through
the cracks.

Davis teachers took pay cuts and are working with the district to plan
for future cuts in pay and programs. Administrative positions have been
abolished and salaries reduced. Maintenance workers have been laid
off and support sfa(I cut.

This is not the time for politics, it’s time for the Davis community to act
together to protect our local schools.

Davis voters have supported local revenue measures in the past and
now we have the chance to renew that commitment and act locally to
save our school programs if statewide measures fail.

See www.yesforourstudents.org for more information.

si Hiram Jackson, parent and music booster
si Maria Clayton, parent

si Logan Kittle, parent, Davis High School football coach
and Secretary of Blue & White Foundation

si Greg Brucker, music teacher at Emerson & Harper Jr. High

si Justin Goss, UC Davis student leader

Solano 48/29

4 8/29

48/29

MEASURE E

EXHIBIT B
FULL BALLOT TEXT

The full text of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

To offset the continued loss of significant state funding, shall the Davis Joint Unified School District be authorized to continue a special tax for
a period of 4 years not to exceed the base annual rate of $20.00 per dwelling unit for multi-dwelling parcels and $204.00 per parcel for all other
parcels, and levy up to an additional $242.00 to cover State funding shortfalls ONLY if the November 2012 Temporary Taxes to Fund Education
initiative does not pass?

The tax rate and associated local funding is based upon the budget deficit created by the continued loss of significant state funding and the expiration
of Measure A, the district’s short term emergency tax. The rate could include the additional local funding to cover State funding shortfalls ONLY if the
tax measure fails in November 2012.

The purpose of the measure is to continue the programs and services currently funded by Measure A, including:

a)	Reduced class sizes for K-6, English and math;

b)	Availability of classes in core subjects such as science and history;

c)	Availability of multiple foreign language programs;

d)	Availability of elective course offerings such as fine art and Career Technical Education;

e)	Retaining counseling staffing;

f)	Continued targeted achievement support in Reading and Math; and

g)	Continued availability of school site safety and support staff.

The measure will maintain the district’s 2012-13 level of funding and minimize layoff of district teachers and program reductions in the event of further
State budget cuts.

Basis of Tax.

The tax shall be levied on all Parcels of Taxable Real Property in the District, as defined below, on the following basis:

Type of Parcel	Rate	of Annual Tax

Multi-Dwelling Unit Parcel	Base Annual Tax Not to exceed twenty Dollars ($20.00) per dwelling unit

All Other Parcels	Base Annual Tax Not to Exceed Two Hundred Four Dollars ($204.00) per parcel

(If State November tax initiative passes)

Or:

All Other Parcels	Base	Annual Tax Not to Exceed Four Hundred Forty six Dollars ($446.00) per parcel

(If State November tax initiative does not pass)

To account for the impact of inflation on the cost of delivering the classroom programs and student services supported by the education parcel tax, the
rates as set forth above shall be adjusted annually, commencing as of the 2014-15 tax year, for inflation by the change in the “Consumer Price Index
for all Urban Consumers California (1982-84=100)” published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. In the event this index is no
longer published, the Board of Education shall adopt a comparable index of general price levels as it shall reasonably determine. The Board of Education
shall cause the tax to be levied at the adjusted amount, or at such lesser amount in any year in which the Board deems such reduced amount sufficient
and appropriate to meet the District's budgetary needs, or believes such reduced amount is appropriate in reaction to State budget changes.

By this new parcel tax measure, the District seeks voter approval to initiate a new parcel tax that will impose the parcel tax rates set forth above, which
rates include $446 per parcel and $20 per dwelling unit in multifamily dwellings. The new level of parcel taxes will be imposed commencing with the
2013-2014 tax year and will run for a period of 4 years.

“Parcel of Taxable Real Property" is defined as any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from
the Yolo or Solano County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office, as applicable depending on parcel location. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon
which no ad valorem property taxes are levied in any year shall also be exempt from the special tax in such year.

A “Multi-Dwelling Unit Parcel” is a Parcel of Taxable Real Property that contains more than one dwelling unit, including, without limitation, apartment
building, a multi-plex building (duplex, triplex etc.). In addition, all individually taxed mobile homes that receive a separate tax bill for ad valorem property

4 8/30

Solano 48 / 30

taxes, whether located on a separate parcel, located in a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision shall individually be considered a Multi-Dwelling
Unit Parcel.

If more than one adjacent Assessor parcel constitutes a single parcel under the Subdivision Map Act (California Government Code section 6641 0 ef seq.), then
the parcel will be treated as a single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes of the amount of tax due, and a claim for refund may be made by the property owner
pursuant to the claim procedures outline below.

An exemption from payment of the special tax will be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who occupies parcel
as a principal residence (“Senior Citizen Exemption1). All parcels currently with the Senior Citizen Exemption on previous tax measures (Measures A, C, Q
or W) will be automatically exempted. An opt-in form will be made available upon request for automatically exempt seniors who want to voluntarily contribute by paying
the parcel tax.

Applications for new senior exemptions may be made and delivered to the District any time before or during the fiscal year the parcel tax is levied in accordance with the
process established by the District, or its designee.

An exemption may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons receiving Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”) for disability, regardless of age, who
occupies the parcel as a principal residence, upon application for exemption. Applications for such exemptions must be made and delivered to the District during the
period from May 15 through June 15 (or the next regular business day thereafter) of each year the parcel tax is levied and in accordance with procedures established
by the Davis Joint Unified School District Board of Education, or its designee.

Claim Procedures

With respect to all general property tax issues and billing matters within its jurisdiction, the Yolo or Solano County Tax Assessor, as applicable, or other
appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With
respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including determination of Senior Citizen exemption, however, the decisions of the District shall be
final and binding. In the latter case, a claim for a refund of the special tax shall comply with the following and any additional procedures as established
by the Board:

(a)	All claims shall be filed with the Superintendent of the District no later than one year after the date the tax was paid. The claimant shall file the claim within
this time period and the claim shall be finally acted upon the Board as a prerequisite to bringing suit thereon.

(b)	Pursuant to Government Code section 935 (b) the claim shall be subject to the provisions of Government Code sections 945.6 and 946.

(c)	The Board shall act on a timely claim within the time period required by Government Code section 912.4.

(d)	The procedure described herein, and any additional procedures established by the Board, shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking
a refund, reduction, or recomputation of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by
the District, in coordination with the County as necessary.

Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate
sum collected by levy of this special tax.

Accountability Measures

The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes identified above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into
a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the District. No later than January 1 of each year while the tax is in effect, the District
shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be funded
by this measure.

In addition, an independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Education to ensure that the special tax proceeds
collected pursuant to this measure are spent for their authorized purposes, and to report annually to the Board of Trustees and the public regarding the
expenditure of such funds.

Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board and
the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part of the
measure or taxing formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing formula hereof shall
remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced
because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.