CITY OF BELVEDERE MEASURE B	
F^ MEASURE B: Shall the City of Belvedere be authorized to contin- ue adjusting its appropriation limit for the annual fire protection and emer- gency medical services levy, pursuant to of the California Constitution, for the per through 6/30/2016? The levy for FY 201 not exceed the rate authorized in Chapter Belvedere Municipal Code. (The current per residential dwelling unit, $690 per o commercial structures, and $122 per vacan	YES  NO  frticle XIIIB rod 7/1/2012 2-2013 shall 3.28 of the evy is $605 ccupancy in t parcel.)

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE B

City of Belvedere
Fire and Emergency Medical Services
Appropriations Limit Adjustment

This ballot measure authorizes the adjustment of the
City of Belvedere’s appropriations limit under Article
XIIIB of the California Constitution for the period of July
1,2012, through June 30,2016, to allow for the continued
expenditure of the approved annual fire protection and
emergency medical services tax, adopted by the City’s
voters in 2000.

The maximum amount that may be derived from this
levy cannot exceed the rate authorized by Chapter 3.28 of
the Belvedere Municipal Code. The amount of the levy for
the 2011-2012 fiscal year is $605 per residential dwelling
unit, $690 per occupancy in commercial structures, and
$122 per vacant parcel.

Adoption of this measure will increase the City’s
appropriations limit to the extent of the proceeds derived
from the levy for the next four fiscal years. Article XIIIB
of the California Constitution requires this adjustment of
the appropriations limit be approved by a majority of the
electors voting on the measure on June 5, 2012.

A “Yes” vote on this measure authorizes the City to
adjust its appropriations limit and thus to continue expen-
diture from its approved levy for fire protection and emer-
gency medical services for four more years commencing
July 1,2012.

A “No” vote on this measure prohibits the City from
adjusting its appropriations limit and thus from expending
the proceeds derived from its approved levy for fire pro-
tection and emergency medical services after June 30,
2012.

s/ROBERT F. EPSTEIN
City Attorney, City of Belvedere

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Your YES vote on Measure B is essential if we hope to
continue providing professional fire protection and emer-
gency medical services to the residents of the City of
Belvedere.

Since 1980, Belvedere has contracted with the Tiburon
Fire Protection District and the Southern Marin Emer-
gency Medical Paramedic System for fire protection and
emergency medical services. Consequently, every four
years since that time, Belvedere voters have overwhelm-
ingly approved special assessments to cover these essen-
tial costs that are over and above the City’s Proposition 13
and Proposition 4 General Fund budget appropriation lim-
its. Measure B does not create a new tax, but simply
allows the City to continue the tax that voters previously
approved by a two-thirds majority specifically for this pur-
pose. Measure B will only provide Belvedere with 58% of
the necessary funds to defray the costs for fire protection
and emergency medical services in Fiscal Year 2011/2012.
The remaining 42% will be covered by the City’s General
Fund.

Under Measure B, the amount paid by Belvedere resi-
dents, property owners and commercial occupancies will
remain the same over the next four years, with minor
adjustments to account for changes in population and
inflation as permitted by Article XIIIB of the California
State Constitution.

Vote YES on Measure B in order to ensure that our essen-
tial fire protection and emergency medical services that
protect Belvedere’s residents and their properties can be
funded and so that our excellent services will continue to
be available when they are most needed.
s/JUSTIN M. FAGGIOLI
Former Mayor and Citizen of the Year
s/KENNETH G. JOHNSON
Former Mayor and Citizen of the Year
s/DENISE BAUER
Advisory Trustee and Former President,

Belvedere Community Foundation
s/BARB ARA MORRISON
Former Mayor
s/JENNIFER MULLER
Chair, Yes on Measure B for Belvedere

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B WAS
SUBMITTED.

BLB-1