CITY COUNCIL
CITY OF CARMEL-BY-THE-SEA

ORDINANCE 2012-8

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARMEL-BY-THE-SEA
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX (SALES TAX) TO BE ADMINISTERED BY

_________________THE	STATE	BOARD	OF	EQUALIZATION

Recitals/Findings

WHEREAS, the depressed economic times have resulted in a decline in City revenues and a
crucial immediate need for revenue, jeopardizing the community’s essential services; and

WHEREAS, without additional revenue the City cannot maintain the quality of local services
that have gradually been deteriorating due to insufficient revenue. Such services include, but are not
limited to: maintaining fire, ambulance and police emergency response times; funding capital needs
including City streets, the beach, parks, and trails; increasing code compliance to preserve village
character; maintaining the City’s libraries and the Sunset Center; addressing long-term CalPERS
pension liabilities and managing other debt; and preserving other general City services. Deteriorating
services can result in increased potential for significant impact to the health, safety and welfare of the
residents and visitors of the City; and

WHEREAS, all funds from a local revenue measure must stay in Carmel-by-the-Sea and cannot
be taken by the State; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that an emergency exists requiring placement of a
measure for a temporary general transactions and use (sales) tax before the voters at the November 6,
2012 general election. The tax would be a 1% tax on the sale of tangible personal property and the
storage, use, or other consumption of such property for a period of ten (10) years. The tax revenue
would be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City;

WHEREAS, the transactions and use tax to be submitted to the voters is a general tax that can
be used for any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular actions or
purposes, and the specific purposes recited in the ballot measure are non-restricted and non-exclusive
example only. The tax is a general tax and shall be approved if the measure receives at least a simple
majority of affirmative votes.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF CARMEL-BY-THE-SEA DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Chapter 3.28 of the Carmel-by-the-Sea Municipal Code is hereby amended to add a new
Section IV to read as follows:

“Section IV. Transactions and Use Tax

3.28.170.	Imposition. A temporary Transactions and Use Tax is hereby imposed as a general
tax on the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the
City for a period of ten (10) years, and upon the sales price of tangible personal property stored, used or
otherwise consumed in the City as further set forth below.

3.28.180.	Purpose. This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following purposes, among others,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish these purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285.9 or
part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative is a
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose. The tax is a general tax whose proceeds shall be deposited in the City’s general
fund and expended for any lawful purpose of the City.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner
that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that
will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of colleting the transactions and use taxes, and at the
same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions
of this ordinance.

3.28.190.	Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, which means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted

with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution
of such a contract.

3.28.200.	Transactions tax rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a
tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated area of the City at the rate of 1.0% of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the City on
and after the operative date of this ordinance for a period of ten (10) years following the effective date of
the tax and shall then be terminated.

3.28.210.	Place of Sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at
the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer
or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place
or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.28.220. Use tax rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in the City at the rate of 1 % of the
sales price of the property. Such tax shall be imposed for ten (10) years following the effective date of
the tax, and shall then be terminated. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.28.230. Adoption of provisions of state law. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxations Code, all of the provisions of part 1 (commencing with section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxations Code are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this ordinance as if
fully set forth herein.

3.28.240. Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes. In adopting the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxations Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1. The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against City or
any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to the tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of
that code.

4.	In sections 6710, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797,
or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in
business in this State” in section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.28.250. Permit not required. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section
6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
Section.

3.28.260. Exemptions and exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts

from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum productions, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the
City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery
by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by

registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-
of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property
for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for
any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of pubic convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6363 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxations
Code.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in Subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly,
at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.28.270. Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this section to Part
1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all
amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code shall
automatically become a part of this section, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so
as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this section.

3.28.280. Enjoining collection forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City,
or against any officer of the State of the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected.

3.28.290. Annual Audit and Public Report. Annually the City Council retains an independent
auditor to conduct an audit of and provide audited financial statements for all of the City’s financial
activities. The auditor shall include an accounting of the revenue received from the tax and expenditures
thereof in the audited financial statements. The auditors’ report shall be presented to the Council and
made available to the public. Additionally, the City Administrator shall annually prepare and present to
the Council and the public a report in conjunction with the audit that reviews the status and performance
of the programs and services funded wholly or partially with proceeds of the tax.

3.28.300. Severability. If any sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions of
this chapter are for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The People hereby declare that they would have passed this
and each section, subsection, phrase or clause of this ordinance whether or not any one or more sections,
subsections, phrases or clauses may be declared invalid or unconstitutional on their face or as applied.

3.28.310. Effective date. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately upon approval by the voters.

3.28.320. Termination date. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire
ten years after the first tax is collected.”

Section 2. The People of Carmel-by-the-Sea find that all Recitals/Findings are true and correct and are
incorporated herein by reference.

Section 3. The transactions and use tax to be submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be used for
any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular action. As such, under
CEQA Guidelines section 153789(b)(4) the tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA because it
creates a government funding mechanism that does not involve any commitment to any specific project
that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax
were used for a purpose that would have such effect, the City would undertake the required CEQA
review for that particular project. Therefore, under CEQA Guidelines 15060, review of this ordinance
under CEQA is not required.

Section 4. Severability

A.	If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance, including the application of such part or
provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force
and effect. To this end, provisions of this Ordinance are severable.

B.	The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be held unconstitutional,
invalid or unenforceable.

Section 5. Publication The City Clerk is directed to publish this Ordinance in the manner and in the
time required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARMEL-BY-THE-SEA
this 6 day of November, 2012, by the following roll call vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBER:

NOES:	COUNCIL	MEMBER:

ABSENT:	COUNCIL	MEMBER:

ATTEST^ k

Heidi Burch, City Clerk

BEACH; HILLYARD; TALMAGE;
THEIS & BURNETT

NONE

NONE

APPROVED:





JASON BURNETT, MAYOR