



COUNTY

KERN



Sample Ballot

& Voter Information Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012

TH	POLLS	OPEN	AT	7	A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER

Notice: application for vote by mail ballot enclosed

OBTENERINEORMACION Y

1 LOS RESULTADOS la noche be las
LLECCIONES EN el INTERNET:

Muestra de Balota

ELECCION
GENERAL CONSOLIDADA

MARTES, 6 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 2012

LAS ELECCIONES EMPIEZAN A LAS 7 A.M. Y TERMINAN A LAS 8 P.M.

EL LUGAR DONDE DEBE USTED VOTAR APARECE EN LA CUBIERTA POSTERIOR

AVISO: SOLICITUD PARA VOTAR POR BALOTA POR CORREO INCLUIDA

1 S'Fc-,

El65405

15-FC-1112.

II ] 11 III 111 III IIIIH !l IIII m IIHII111 ll III

PROPOSITION 30. TEMPORARY TAXES TO FUND
EDUCATION. GUARANTEED LOCAL PUBLIC SAFETY
FUNDING. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Increases taxes on earnings over
$250,000 for seven years and sales taxes by V* cent for
four years, to fund schools. Guarantees public safety
realignment funding. Fiscal Impact: Increased state tax
revenues through 2018-19, averaging about $6 billion
annually over the next few years. Revenues available for
funding state budget. In 2012-13, planned spending
reductions, primarily to education programs, would not
occur.

o

Yes

o

No

PROPOSITION 31. STATE BUDGET. STATE AND
LOCAL GOVERNMENT. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE.

Establishes two-year state budget. Sets rules for
offsetting new expenditures, and Governor budget cuts In
fiscal emergencies- Local governments can alter
application of laws governing stale-funded programs.
Fiscal Impact Decreased state sales tax revenues of
$200 million annually, with corresponding increases of ■
funding to local governments. Other, potentially more
significant changes in state and local budgets, depending
on future decisions by public officials.

o

Yes

o

No

PROPOSITION 32. POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS BY
PAYROLL DEDUCTION. CONTRIBUTIONS TO
CANDIDATES. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Prohibits unions
tram usrig payroll-deducted funds for political purposes.
Applies same use prohibition to payroll deductions, if any,
by corporations or government contractors. Prohibits
union and corporate contributions to candidates and their
committees. Prohibits government contractor
contributions to elected officers or their committees.

Fiscal Impact Increased costs to state and local
government, potentially exceeding $1 million annually, to
implement and enforce the measure’s requirements.

oYes

o

No

PROPOSITION 33. AUTO INSURANCE COMPANIES.
PRICES BASED ON DRIVER'S HISTORY OF
INSURANCE COVERAGE. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Changes current (aw to allow insurance companies to set
prices based on whether the driver previously carried auto
insurance with any insurance company. Allows
proportional discount for drivers with some prior coverage.
Allows increased cost for drivers without history of
continuous coverage. Fiscal Impact: Probably no
significant fiscal effect on state insurance premium tax
revenues.

o

Yes

0N°

PROPOSITION 34. DEATH PENALTY. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Repeals death penalty and replaces it with life
imprisonment without possibility of parole. Applies
retroactively to existing death sentences. Directs $100
million to law enforcement agencies for investigations of
homicide and rape cases. Fiscal Impact: Ongoing state
and county criminal justice savings of about $130 million
annually within a few years, which could vary by tens of
millions of dollars. One-time state costs of $100 million for
focal law enforcement grants.

O Yes

O

No

PROPOSITION 35. HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

PENALTIES. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Increases prison
sentences and fines for human trafficking convictions.
Requires convicted human traffickers to register as sex
offenders. Requires registered sex offenders to disclose
internet activities and identities. Fiscal Impact Costs of a
few million dollars annually to state and local governments
for addressing human trafficking offenses. Potential
increased annual fine revenue of a similar amount,
dedicated primarily for human trafficking victims.

o

Yes

qNo

PROPOSITION 36. THREE STRIKES LAW. REPEAT
FELONY OFFENDERS. PENALTIES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Revises law to impose life sentence only
when new felony conviction is serious or violent May
authorize re-sentencing if third strike conviction was not
serious or violent. Fiscal Impact Ongoing state
correctional savings of around $70 million annually, with
even greater savings (up to $90 million) over the next
couple of decades. These savings could vary significantly
depending on future state actions.

o

Yes

o

No

PROPOSITION 37. GENETICALLY ENGINEERED
FOODS. LABELING. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Requires
labeling of food sold to consumers made from plants or
animals with genetic material changed in specified ways.
Prohibits marketing such food, or other processed food, as
‘natural.' Provides exemptions. Fiscal Impact: Increased
annual state costs from a few hundred thousand dollars to
over $1 million to regulate the labeling of genetically
engineered foods. Additional, but likely not significant,
governmental costs to address violations under the
measure.

oYes

o

No

PROPOSITION 38. TAX TO FUND EDUCATION AND
EARLY CHILDHOOD PROGRAMS. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Increases taxes on earnings using sliding
scale, for twelve years. Revenues go to K-12 schools and
early childhood programs, and for four years to repaying
state debt. Fiscal Impact: Increased state tax revenues
for 12 years-roughly $10 billion annually in initial years,
tending to grow over time. Funds used for schools, child
care, and preschool, as well as providing savings on state
debt payments.

o

Yes

o

No

PROPOSITION 39. TAX TREATMENT FOR
MULTISTATE BUSINESSES. CLEAN ENERGY AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY FUNDING. INITIATIVE
STATUTE, Requires muftistate businesses to pay income
taxes based on percentage of their sales in California.
Dedicates revenues for five years to clean/efficient energy
projects. Fiscal Impact: Increased state revenues of $1
billion annually, with half of the revenues over the next five
years spent on energy efficiency projects. Of the
remaining revenues, a significant portion likely would be
spent on schools.

o

Yes

o

No

PROPOSITION 40. REDISTRICTiNG. STATE SENATE
DISTRICTS. REFERENDUM. A "Yes'vote approves,
and a “No" vote rejects, new State Senate districts drawn
by the Citizens Redistricting Commission. If rejected,
districts will be adjusted by officials supervised by the
California Supreme Court. Fiscal Impact: Approving the
referendum would have no fiscal impact on the state and
local governments. Rejecting the referendum would result
in a one-time cost of about $1 million to the state and
counties.

oNo

MOJAVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
TAX MEASURE N

To maintain quality academic programs, school facilities,
and activities that provide improved college and career
pathways, maintain effective student to teacher ratios, and
help offset severe state budge cuts, shall the Mojave
Unified School District levy a parcel tax in the amount of
$42 to be levied annually for a period of five years, with
mandatory audits, no money for administrative salaries, an
exemption for seniors, age 65 and over, and all dollars
staying in our local schools?

Oyes

O

No

BACK Card 264 RptPct 22450-22450 ”0022450" English FOR PROOF ONLY.09/06/2012 01:48:21 PM

15-sb2BACK-E

SAMPLE BALLOT

15sb2BACKE

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MOJAVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE N

A “Yes” vote by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on this measure will
adopt an education parcel tax at the rate of forty-two dollars ($42.00) per parcel for
the period of 5 years beginning on July 1,2013.

Measure N defines a “parcel” as any parcel of land that lies wholly or partially
within the boundaries of the Mojave Unified School District for which the Kern
County Assessor has assigned an Assessor’s Parcel Number (APN). Parcel own-
ers who are sixty-five (65) years or older in age may file for an exemption from the
education parcel tax so long as their parcel is used solely as an owner-occupied
single-family residence.

Proceeds from the education parcel tax will be deposited in a separate account
created by the District. The proceeds will be used to maintain the District’s com-
prehensive high schools, music and arts programs, and to continue support, in-
cluding transportation, for after school activities such as band and athletics. The
education parcel tax will be used to provide additional educational programs. The
tax proceeds will also be used to pay lease payments on existing school facilities
and equipments.

The education parcel tax shall only be used for the identified purposes in the full
measure. The proceeds shall not be spent on administrative salaries. An annual
report shall be made to the Mojave Unified School District Board of Education. The
report shall detail the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds
of the education parcel tax. The report will also update the status of any projects or
programs that have used funds from the education parcel tax.

The District shall conduct an annual independent financial audit of revenues and
expenditures.

IMPMS-N

15-;

1537

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Measure to Maintain Local Quality Schools

Mojave Unified School District schools serve as an asset to our community, bene-
fitting all local residents with quality education, programming and services tor stu-
dent and community use. Although our District has done a good job modernizing
and maintaining its facilities, severe cutbacks in State funding have impacted the
District’s ability to maintain an enriched set of student educational and support
programs, and attract and retain highly qualified teachers.

We can’t counton Sacramento to have our students’ best interests in mind: a YES
vote on MEASURE “N” will provide needed locally-controlled funds to minimize
the impact of State funding cuts on our students and community. Measure “N” will
support our comprehensive high schools and invest in enriching music, arts, and
band programs. Additionally, the Measure will provide the necessary funding to
continue the District’s commitment to academic pathways to help our students ac-
cess college and good-paying careers after graduation.

MEASURE “N” WILL SUPPORT HIGH ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT FOR ALL
STUDENTS BY:

Funding a full set of core and elective courses, and ensuring that the District pro-
vides comprehensive High Schools for our communities

Funding an enriched set of school programs including art and music, and support
afterschool activities including band programs and transportation

Maintain effective student to teacher ratios in classrooms, enhance academic
achievement and keep increasing test scores

Protect the District’s General Fund from required facilities lease payments, mak-
ing more money available for classroom instruction

MEASURE “N" HAS TAXPAYERS SAFEGUARDS:

Seniors exemptions available

Requires annual audits to ensure money is spent on voter approved projects
No money for administrative salaries

Now is the time to support our local schools. MEASURE “N" provides a source of
funding that stays locally to ensure that our students continue to excel academi-
cally. Vote YES!

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

MUSD is back asking voters to place more taxes on the backs of overburdened f, \
property owners. MUSD average salary increased more than 40% in the past de-
cade. Compared to other districts, our schools score below-average perfor-
mances in the classroom.

Also over the past decade, the district issued voter-approved bonds. But, the dis-
trict hasn’t told voters it sold Capital Appreciation Bonds (CABs) with interest
costs several times greaterthan traditional Current Interest Bonds. MUSD bond fi- ..
nancing scheme made Bloomberg News in 2006. These CABs are so bad that |i
districts in Dan Diego County made national news for the excessive interest paid 11
by the taxpayers because of poor district judgment.	f	j

The real question is simple: can we trust the competency of the school district with
taxpayers’ money? The current economy has forced taxpayers to cut liabilities.
Shouldn’t our school district live within its means?

Property taxes generate millions for our local school district. State funding of local
schools is far greater amount than it was in years past. With district enrollment
around 2600 students, and declining, the parcel tax adds millions more to the an-
nual taxes billed to property owner(s). Mojave and California City property owners
are already paying taxes for services many do not receive and burdened with ex-
ceptionally high taxes and fees. This measure would increase the tax disparity al-
ready plaguing our property tax rolls.

Since the proposed tax is applied to mostly unimproved residential properties,
owned by non-residents, projections are thousands of parcel owner(s) will quit
paying their property taxes all together. More than 10,000 properties are already
delinquent in property tax payments.

Property values and the local economy will be damaged if this measure is ap-
proved. Vote No on the Parcel Tax, our community cannot afford the risk of further
declining property values.

s/David Stafford, Resident
s/Fred Whitney, Resident
s/Mary Corona, Resident
s/Dana John Twohig, Resident

s/George F. Hodgkinson, Retired
s/Merrie Schafer, Parent
s/Larry Bert Satterfield, Educator/Coach
e/Richard Walpole, Teacher
s/Shane M. Moore, Educator/Coach

§

■

TT

p

-

Ji

If

i

ARGMEAS-N

ARG-AGNST-Mojave Unified

1538

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE N	MEASURE N
TOP SPECIAL TAX DEPENDENCY NOW!  Me No on Measure “N". Increasing the tax burden to 75,000 properties is not istainable economic policy!  lirness is Essential - Propositions 13 and 218 approved by California voters pro- des important voter approved property tax protections. MUSD parcel tax conse- nts are crafting a circumvention of the ad-va!orem tax protections.  )o Expensive - Several expensive bond measures already levied on property tax lls by MUSD, combined with fees and special taxes already levied to mostly un- tproved parcels plague tax rolls. Vote No on Measure “N”, STOP SPECIAL TAX EPENDENCY NOW!  END THE MESSAGE  nancial Responsibility - Voters need to ensure that taxpayers STOP suffering r failed fiscal policies. Measure “N” does not provide any savings to the tax- ryer. The language in Measure “N11 does not reduce taxpayers’ burden, or pra- te negotiated taxpayer savings to existing Capital Appreciation Bonds (CABS), highly controversial funding scheme.  easure '‘N’1, if approved, will compound our economic challenges, potentially lusing thousands of taxpayers to default on property taxes throughout district, ready, more than 10,000 properties are tax defaulted.  scent news reports MUSD projected a $769,000 surplus and a $22.3 Million dol- ' budget. MUSD Average Schedule Teachers Salary Pay has increased 40% er the past decade from $44,752 to $64.750.1  )te No on Measure “N"; taxpayers can’t afford adverse consequences of tax and •end schemes. Send the message; MUSD tighten the belt in the current econ- ny. STOP asking for more taxpayers’ money!  source: California Department of Education  Dana John Twohig, Resident/Taxpayer Mvin Hutson, Retired/Resident Eddie Boma, Resident/Taxepayer vflary Corona, Resident/Taxpayer rred Whitney, Engineer/Resident	Funds for education from Sacramento keep dropping, yet both test scores and at- . tendance levels in the Mojave Unified School District are rising. Our high schools now offer Advanced Placement courses and specialized vocational training for students, providing college and career pathways for good-paying jobs after graduation.  High school graduation rates are at their highest levels, online resources have transformed parental involvement, and the District has successfully built new fa- cilities with quality learning environments, Our communities have long believed in investing in education, and Measure N maintains the-strong support for local schools and our students.  State budget cuts have shortened the school year and students will spend fewer days in the classroom learning. Transportation funding is uncertain, and energy costs are increasing. The District’s resources for traditional student enrichment programs, such as band, arts, and athletics, are also threatened.  Sacramento cannot be relied upon to keep our students’ best interests in mind, as promised funds-have not come and State budget conflicts persist. Voting YES on Measure N will allow the District to offset further budget cuts and help make ends meet for the next five years.  Measure N will fund valuable school programs, maintain increasing test scores and traditional school programs, make more money available for classroom in- struction and prevent the further shortening of the school year. All money will go to voter approved programs, not administrative overhead, and cannot be taken away by the State.  Support our students and local schools, vote YES on Measure N!  s/George F. Hodgkinson, Retired s/R. Ted Sutherland, Retired s/Michael S. Edmiston, Retired s/Shawn Sprague, Contractor/Developer s/Larry Bert Satterfield, Educator/coach
REB-ARG-FAVOR-N	REB-ARG-AGAINST-N

15-39

1539

DISCLAIMER: All documents are printed exactly as submitted to the Elections Office

EXHIBIT B
BALLOT MEASURE N

Mojave Unified School District

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue to provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain the high quality of community schools, the Mojave Unified School District;
proposes to adopt an education parcel tax for a period of 5 years, beginning July 1,2013, at the rate of $42 per year, on each parcel located within the Mojave Unified
School District, with an exemption available for senior citizens, and to implement accountability measures in connection with said tax to provide oversight and I
accountability to ensure the funds are used for:

Maintaining the District's comprehensive high schools, maintaining music and arts programs, and continuing support for afterschool activities;
including band, athletics programs and transportation;	j	i

Offering a full set of core and elective courses that satisfy college entrance requirements, so students can maintain improved academic career!
paths for college and better paying careers and jobs after graduation;	.	j

Providing educational programs that enhance academic achievement, increase test scores, and maintain effective teacher to student ratios;;
and

Making required lease payments for school facilities and equipment so that existing funds are more effectively used for direct classroom;
instruction.

AMOUNT OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT

The education parcel tax shall be $42 per year for five (5) years assessed against each parcel within the boundaries of the Mojave Unified School District. Thel
proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF "PARCEL”	|

For purposes of the special tax, the term ''Parcel" means any parcel of land that lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Mojave Unified School District, fori
which the Assessor of the County of Kern, as applicable, has assigned an assessor's parcel number.

EXEMPTION OF SENIORS	j

Pursuant to California Government Code section 50079(b), any owners who are 65 years of age or older of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family!
residential purposes may obtain an exemption from the education parcel tax by annually submitting an application by June 15 of each year to the Board of Education!;
of the Mojave Unified School District in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the Board.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES	J

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply;
to the education parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b)??
the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above and shall not be spent on administrative salaries; (c) a
separate, special restricted fund shall be created into which the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be|
made to the Board of Education of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (ii) thel
status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the education parcel tax, as identified above; and (e) an annual!
independent financial audit of revenues and expenditures shall be required.	|

1540