COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

MEASURE G

OF PROPOSED CHARGE FOR AMBULANCE
SERVICE

WITHIN THE SOUTH COUNTY AMBULANCE ZONE
PORTION OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 21

This measure will authorize an annual charge
to be imposed for five (5) years on parcels of property
and businesses located in the South County Ambulance
Zone of County Service Area No. 21. The boundaries of
the South County Ambulance Zone, created by the Board
of Supervisors, are as set forth in Board of Supervisors
Resolution Number 45-12. The charges imposed by this
tax measure would begin in Fiscal Year 2013/2014 and
continue through Fiscal Year 2017/2018.

The amount of the annual charge is set at Seventy
Dollars ($70.00) for each commercial parcel, Seventy
Dollars ($70.00) for each improved residential parcel,
and Seventy Dollars ($70.00) per unit for multi-residential
identified by the County Assessor’s Use Codes in the
Measure. The charges will be added to and collected
through the annual property tax bill.

The revenue from charges imposed may
be expended solely to maintain and administer an
ambulance service within the South County Ambulance
Zone, including responding to out-of-zone ambulance
calls as required by the Local Emergency Medical
Services Agency, administration costs and collection of
charges. The revenue from charges imposed may also
be used to repay the Ambulance Enterprise fund for any
past deficits incurred from maintaining an ambulance
service within the South County Ambulance Zone of
County Service Area No. 21. The measure expresses the
intent of the Board of Supervisors to provide ambulance
service through the Human Services Agency.

If a business is operated from a residence, only
one charge will be imposed. Dwelling units will not include
transient occupancy units of less than thirty (30) days,
such as motel rooms, but the motel will be assessed a
business charge.

Any claim that a charge has been imposed in
error may be appealed first to the County Human Services
Agency (HSA) and then to the Board of Supervisors if
dissatisfied with the HSA decision.

A “Yes” vote means that the tax should be
imposed. Two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on this measure
must vote “Yes” before the Board of Supervisors may
impose this special tax. A “No” vote means the Board of
Supervisors shall not impose the special tax.

GREGORY J. OLIVER,

County Counsel

FINANCIAL ANALYSIS BY
COUNTY AUDITOR-CONTROLLER

MEASURE G

This ballot measure, if adopted by the South
County Ambulance Zone of County Service Area No.
21 voters, would impose for five (5) years on parcels of
property and businesses located in the South County
Ambulance Zone of County Service Area No. 21 an
annual charge. The annual charge would be Seventy
Dollars ($70) for each improved commercial parcel,
Seventy Dollars ($70) for each improved residential
parcel, and Seventy Dollars ($70) per dwelling unit on
each improved multi-residential parcel identified by the
County Assessor’s Use Codes in the Measure. There will
be no annual charge on unimproved parcels until and/
or unless improvements are placed on them. Currently,
there is a benefit assessment tax that will expire on June
30, 2013. The funds raised would be used to maintain
and administer an ambulance service within the South
County Ambulance Zone.

Assumptions:

1.	There are 5074 parcels in the district. Of these,
1632 are unimproved parcels and will not be taxed
until and/or unless improvements are placed on the
parcel. There will be no additional parcels added.

2.	The beginning tax year would be 2013-14.

3.	The revenue shall be recorded under the County's
Teeter plan, with the collection period from July 1 to
June 30 of each fiscal year.

4.	The current assessment tax levied will cease as
of June 30, 2013. The 2012-13 annual revenue
collection will be $253,330 under the Teeter plan.

Projected annual tax revenue to be generated by Measure
G:

2013-14	$253,330
2014-15	$253,330
2015-16	$253,330
2016-17	$253,330
2017-18	$253,330
Total	$1,266,650

This analysis is submitted by the Office of the
Auditor-Controller of the County of Tuolumne pursuant
to the requirements of Section 9160(c) of the Elections
Code of the State of California.

Deborah Russell
Auditor-Controller

55 Tuolumne / 9

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G	ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G
The South County Ambulance Zone was created to provide ambulance service to the greater Groveland area, and specifically to establish an ambulance station within Groveland. Tuolumne County Ambulance desires to continue providing a 24/7 Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulance service within the South County Ambulance Zone.  The Groveland Ambulance call volume alone is not sufficient to support the current level of 24/7 service; therefore additional funding is needed. To accomplish this, the County of Tuolumne has proposed using a portion of the Ambulance Enterprise fund (with revenue generated countywide from customer service charges) coupled with revenue from a parcel tax, Measure G, on this ballot.  If Measure G is not adopted, the current 24 hour, seven day a week ALS ambulance service will face significant reductions. Further, the Groveland ambulance will be placed in rotation to provide assistance with out-of- county transports as needed.  If Measure G passes, it is the intent to continue providing the current 24/7 ALS ambulance service within the South County Ambulance Zone, within County Service Area No. 21, for the five (5) year duration of the proposed parcel tax, from July 1,2013 through June 30, 2018.  In 2008, with over a 2/3 majority vote, South County Ambulance Zone residents voted to maintain a 24/7 ALS ambulance by approving a flat $70.00 parcel tax on commercial and improved properties. Under Measure G, there would be no change to the current $70.00 parcel tax for the entire five year tax period. Only commercial and improved properties would be charged, with no tax on unimproved parcels.  Tuolumne County Ambulance has proven its value and essential role in protecting the health and safety of South County residents. Please join us in support of Measure G, and preserve 24-hour, rapid response ALS coverage.  s/Ann Connolly, Human Services Agency Director s/ Jimmie Nixon, Human Services Agency CFO	No Arguments were submitted

55 Tuolumne / 10

MEASURE G
RESOLUTION 44-12
OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF TUOLUMNE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

this Board has established the South County Ambulance Zone within County Service Area No. 21; and

this Board has proposed the imposition of charges for ambulance service in this Zone; and

the proposed charges must be approved by the voters prior to becoming effective; and

at least one other election has already been called for the state-established regular election date on
November 6, 2012; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that this Board of Supervisors calls an election to be held on November 6, 2012 for the
purpose of submitting to the voters the following proposition:

Shall the charges on parcels and businesses, for the purpose of
operating an ambulance service in the South County Ambulance
Zone of County Service Area No. 21, as proposed by Resolution
No. 45-12 of the Tuolumne County Board of Supervisors, be
approved?

Yes □ No □

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the election is to be conducted within the boundaries of the South County Ambulance Zone of
County Service Area No. 21.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the election is hereby consolidated with any regular elections to be held on the same date
within the same territory as set forth herein.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Clerk of the Board is directed to forward to the County Clerk a copy of the attached
Resolution and a copy of this Resolution.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the County Clerk is authorized and directed to call for arguments for and against said measure,
and to conduct said election according to applicable election laws.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the County Counsel for the County of Tuolumne shall prepare an impartial analysis of the
measure pursuant to Election Code § 9160(b).

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Auditor/Controller for the County of Tuolumne shall prepare a fiscal impact statement
pursuant to Election Code § 9160(c).

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Supervisors of the County of Tuolumne, State of California authorizes the

County Clerk to conduct this election in all respects, and that the County Clerk shall bill this jurisdiction for the cost of
conducting this election.

ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF TUOLUMNE ON JULY 17, 2012

1 st Dist. Bass	NOES;	Dist.
2nd Dist. Hanvelt		Dist.
3rd Dist. Royce 4th Dist. Gray 5th Dist. Pland	ABSENT:	Dist.
		Dist.
	ABSTAIN:	Dist.

RICHARD PLAND

CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

ATTEST: ALICIA L. JAMAR	No.	44-12

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

55 Tuolumne / 11

MEASURE G
RESOLUTION 45-12
OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF TUOLUMNE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

Ambulance service is necessary to provide medical services and transportation in emergencies; and

The South County Ambulance Zone, Ambulance Zone 4, within County Service Area No. 21, was created to
provide ambulance service to the South County; and

The boundaries of South County Ambulance Zone are set forth in Resolution 128-97; and

Tuolumne County Ambulance has been successfully providing ambulance services within the South County
Ambulance Zone for at least the past twenty (25) years; and

Tuolumne County Ambulance desires to continue providing ambulance service within the South County
Ambulance Zone; and

The South County Ambulance Zone does not generate sufficient ambulance requests to support an ambulance
service; and

A reasonably priced ambulance system will require a subsidy to make up the difference between expected
revenue and expenditures; and

County general fund revenues are insufficient to cover this revenue shortfall; and

Voter approval from two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on the measure is required to levying and collection of charges
within this Zone.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1.	There shall be imposed on each individual dwelling, specified improved parcels and commercial locations within
the South County Ambulance Zone of County Service Area No. 21 an annual charge for a maximum of five (5)
years. The annual charge shall be $70 for each commercial parcel and $70 for each individual dwelling and shall be
determined and collected as set forth herein.

2.	The annual charge imposed on each commercial location and on each single family parcel identified below by the
Assessor’s Use Code, shall be no greater than the amount set forth opposite the applicable Use Code Category.

The annual charge imposed on each multiple residential, and multiple family parcel, identified below by the
Assessor’s Use Code, shall be no greater than an amount calculated by multiplying the single family parcel charge
times the number of individual dwelling units on the parcel, as determined by the Assessor. With respect to mobile
home parks, those mobile homes on which a charge is imposed through a single family use code shall not be
counted in determining the number of units within the park.

USE CODE	FY	2013/14	-2017/18

IMPROVED RESIDENTIAL	$70

10-12,16, 21,22, 31,32, 41, 42, 77, 78, 89
(50-69) Residential

MULTI-RESIDENTIAL	$70

14,15,17-19, 23-25, 33-35, 43-45, 77, 78	per	unit

COMMERCIAL	$70

77, 78, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 87

The term “dwelling unit” means a unit designed or used for residential purposes by one or more persons, excluding
units for transient occupancy of less than 30 days. Except for use codes 77 and 78, the two digit use codes listed
above represent the last two digits as shown on the Secured Roll. In the case of codes 77 and 78, these are the
first two digits of a four digit use code.

3.	The charges provided for herein shall be imposed for the 2013-14 fiscal year, provided they are approved
by two-thirds of the voters voting on the issue in the election to be held November 6, 2012. If the charges
are not approved, this resolution will be automatically rescinded.

4.	An appeal of the imposition of a charge based on an alleged error in application of the resolution must be

55 Tuolumne /12

made by written application of the taxpayer. The application must be filed with the office of the Human
Services Director, currently located at, 20075 Cedar Road North, Sonora, California, no later than the
close of business on December 31 of the fiscal year to which the charges pertain. Failure to receive a
tax bill shall not extend the time to appeal.

The application must set forth on which the taxpayer relies in contending that there has been an error.
The application must include the mailing address of the taxpayer and identify the precise address and
number of the parcel or commercial business in question. The application must also include a statement
under penalty of perjury that the facts stated on the application are true. An application complying
with these requirements will be scheduled for a hearing before the Human Services Agency Director, or
designee, as soon as reasonably possible, and notice of the hearing shall be mailed to the taxpayer at
least 15 days prior to the hearing. After the hearing, the Director, or designee, shall deny or grant the
appeal and order appropriate relief. A copy of the decision shall be mailed to the taxpayer.

The taxpayer may appeal to the Board of Supervisors by written notice filed with the Clerk of the Board,
2 South Green Street, Sonora, California, and received no later than 15 days following the date of mailing
of the decision of the Human Services Agency Director, or designee. A copy of the decision shall be
attached to the notice. Upon the receipt of a proper notice, the Clerk of the Board shall schedule a
hearing before the Board of Supervisors as soon as reasonably possible and notice of the hearing shall
be mailed to the taxpayer at least 15 days prior to the hearing. After the hearing, the Board shall deny
or grant the appeal and order appropriate relief.

For the purposes of an appeal, the term “commercial” includes any number of commercial activities
operating at the same address and under the same or overlapping ownership.

5.	The appropriations limit for the South County Ambulance Zone within County Service Area No. 21 is
established at the level of the proceeds of charges imposed herein, pursuant to section 4 of Article 13B
of the California Constitution.

6.	Revenue raised by charges imposed may be expended only for maintaining an ambulance service within
South County Ambulance Zone within County Service Area No. 21, including responding to out-of-
zone ambulance calls as required by the Local Emergency Medical Services Agency, administering the
determining and collection of charges, and any service administration expenses.

7.	Revenue raised by charges imposed may be used to repay the Ambulance Enterprise fund for any past
deficits occurred from maintaining an ambulance service within South County Ambulance Zone within
County Service Area No. 21.

8.	If any part of this resolution is held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion and to that end the charge on each parcel and commercial business and various sections of the
resolution are hereby declared severable.

9.	This Resolution shall become operative only upon the approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting
on the Resolution at an election to be held on November 6, 2012. This Resolution shall be and is
automatically rescinded if not approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on the Resolution at an
election to be held on November 6, 2012.

ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF TUOLUMNE ON JULY 17, 2012

1 st Dist. Bass	NOES:	Dist.
2nd Dist. Hanvelt		Dist.
3rd Dist. Royce	ABSENT:	Dist.
4th Dist. Gray		Dist.
5th Dist. Pland	ABSTAIN:	Dist.

RICHARD PLAND

CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

ATTEST: ALICIA L. JAMAR	No.	45-12

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

55 Tuolumne/13