RESOLUTION NO: 062812-1

MOJAVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE N

ELECTION DATE: 11-6-2012

RESOLUTION NO. 062812-1

Measure N
II- k~2_OiZ

RESOLUTION OF THE GOVERNING BOARD
OF THE MOJAVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
CALLING AN ELECTION FOR VOTER APPROVAL OF
AN EDUCATION PARCEL TAX, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE
ELECTION ORDER, AND REQUESTING TO CONSOLIDATE THIS ELECTION WITH THE

PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 6,2012

WHEREAS, the Mojave Unified School District (the “District”) is committed to offering
a high-quality educational program to ah students in the District, and due to inadequate state funding,
increased local revenues are necessary to meet this goal;

WHEREAS, California Constitution, Article XII1A, section 4, and Government Code
sections 50075 et seq, authorize the District, upon approval of a two-thirds vote of the electorate, to levy
qualified special taxes on property in the District for the purpose of providing quality education
programs in the District and other lawful purposes of the District;

WHEREAS, an adequately funded and well-developed public education program
provides numerous benefits and advantages to all of the residents of the community;

WHEREAS, the Governing Board of the District (the “Board”) convened a noticed
public hearing on Thursday, May 24,2012, after 6:00 p.m., at the regular meeting place of the Board at
California City High School, California City, California, at which hearing all interested persons within
the District were given an opportunity to appear and be heard on the proposed levy of the special tax
within the District;

WHEREAS, in the judgment of the Board, following such public hearing and comment,
it is advisable to request that the Kem County Registrar of Voters (the “County Registrar”) call an
election and submit to the voters of the District the question of whether the District shall implement a
special tax levy to be known as the education parcel tax, within the boundaries of the District, for the
purpose of raising additional revenue for the District;

WHEREAS, pursuant to Educational Code section 5342 and Elections Code
sections 10400,10402, and 10403 such election may be completely or partially consolidated with any
other election held on the same day and in the territory or territoiy that is in part the same;

WHEREAS, the measure raises local tax revenue the state cannot remove from local

control;

WHEREAS, with billions of dollars in educational funding cuts from the State budget,
our schools need local tax dollars to help pay for the necessary programs to educate our children;

999136.3	10837.016

i

WHEREAS, the measure provides a stable and consistent funding source for our local

school needs;

WHEREAS, die District will make no commitments beyond five years to maintain
programs paid for by the education parcel tax; and

WHEREAS, the operating expenses of programs paid for by the parcel tax would not
exceed the normal indirect rate permitted by the state.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Governing Board of the Mojave
Unified School District as follows;

Section 1. Recitals. The Board finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are true

and correct.

Section 2. Purposes of the Tax. The Board hereby proposes to adopt an education parcel
tax to be used for the purposes of;

•	Maintain the District's comprehensive high schools, maintain music and aits programs, and
continue support for afterschool activities including band, athletics programs and transportation;

•	Offer a full set of core and elective courses that satisfy college entrance requirements, so students
can maintain improved academic career paths for college and better paying careers and jobs after
graduation;

*	Provide educational programs that enhance academic achievement, increase test scores, and
maintain effective teacher to student ratios; and

*	Make required lease payments for school facilities and equipment so that existing funds are more
effectively used for direct classroom instruction.

Pursuant to Government Code section 50075,1, the Board detenmines that the proceeds of
the education parcel tax shall only be applied for the purposes stated above.

Section 3. Amount and Duration of the Tax. The education parcel tax shall be a parcel
tax of $42 per year assessed against each Parcel. As used herein, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of
land that lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the District, for which the Assessor of the
County of Kem, as applicable, has assigned an assessor’s parcel number. The special tax shall be levied
in each fiscal year for five (5) yearn beginning in the fiscal year starting July !, 2013 and ending in the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2017.

Section 4. Method of Collection, Subject to voter approval as set forth below, the
education parcel tax shall be levied in the manner described herein and shall be collected with and
subject to the same interest and penalties as, general ad valorem taxes collected by the Kem County
Treasurer and Tax Collector, as applicable. In accordance with tire requirements of Government Code
section 50075.1(c), the District shall create a separate restricted fund into which the proceeds of the
special tax shall be deposited.

999136.3	10837.016

2

Section 5. Appropriations Limit. The Board shall provide in each year (pursuant to
Government Code section 7902.1) for any increase in the District’s appropriations limit as shall be
necessary to ensure that proceeds of the educational parcel tax may be spent for the authorized puiposes.

Section 6. Election Order; Ballot Measure. Pursuant to Government Code
sections 50079 and 50077, an election shall be held within the boundaries of the District on Tuesday,
November 6,2012, submitting to the voters of the District the measure as set forth in Exhibit B hereto,
which, if approved by at least two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure, will take effect on July 1,
2013. Exhibit B hereto shall comprise the full text of the measure.

Section 7. Abbreviated Statement of the Measure. Pursuant to Elections Code
section 13247, the statement of the measure submitted to the voters shall be abbreviated on the ballot as

follows;

“To maintain quality academic programs, school facilities, and activities that provide
improved college and career pathways, maintain effective student to teacher ratios, and help
offset severe state budget cuts, shall the Mojave Unified School District levy a parcel tax in
the amount of $42 to be levied annually for a period of five years, with mandatory audits, no
money for administrative salaries, and with every dollar staying in our local schools?”

Yes	No______

Section 8. Changes to Text. The District's Superintendent, or designee, is hereby
authorized and directed to make any changes to the text of the measure, or to the abbreviated statement
of the measure, as may be convenient or necessary to comply with tire intent of this Resolution, the
requirements of elections officials, and the requirements of law.

Section 9. Consolidation with Other Elections. Pursuant to Education Code
sections 5342 and Part 3 (commencing with Section 10400) of Division 10 of the Elections Code, the
County of Kern is requested to order consolidation of the parcel tax election with the Presidential
Election to be held on November 6, 2012 in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

Section 10. Countv Officials to Call and Conduct Election. Pursuant to Education Code
sections 5302 and 5303, the Kern County Superintendent of Schools and the Kern County Registrar of
Voters are hereby requested to take all steps to call and hold the election in accordance with law and
these specifications.

Section 11. Canvass of Returns. The Board of Supervisors of ICem County is authorized
to canvass the returns of the election pursuant to Elections Code section 10411.

Section 12. Services of Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to Education Code section 5303
and Elections Code section 10002, the Board hereby requests that the Kem County Registrar of Voters
render all services specified by Elections Code section 10418 relating to the election, including, but not
limited to, printing and mailing sample ballots, arguments and applications for absentee ballots,
canvassing election returns and certifying the results of the election to the Board. The Board hereby

999136.3	10837.016

3

agrees to reimburse the County of Kern in full for any services performed for the District upon
presentation of an invoice to the District.

Section 13. Specifications of the Election Order. The foregoing specifications of the
election order are made pursuant to Education Code section 5322.

Section 14. Delivery of Specifications of the Election Older. Pursuant to Education
Code section 5322, the Secretary of the Board is hereby directed to deliver, not later than August 10,

2012, a copy of this Resolution to the Kem County Superintendent of Schools and the Kern County
Registrar of Voters and, pursuant to Elections Code section 10403, a copy of this resolution to the Kem
County Board of Supervisors.

Section 15. Formal Notice of Election. The Kem County Superintendent of Schools is
hereby requested to prepare and execute a Formal Notice of Election (the “Notice of Election”)
containing the information specified in Education Code section 5361, in substantially the form attached
hereto as Exhibit A. The District hereby requests the Kem County Superintendent of Schools, in
accordance with Education Code section 5362, to post a copy of Notice of Election in public view at
every schoolhouse in the District and at three public places within the District not later than 90 days
prior to the date of the election, or otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by law.

Section 16. Separability. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this Resolution is
for any reason found to be invalid, such section, subsection, phrase or clause shall be severed from, and
shall not affect the validity of, all remaining portions of this Resolution that can be given effect without
the severed portion.

Section 17. Ballot Argument. The members of the District's Board are hereby
authorized, but not directed, to prepare and file with the Kem County Registrar of Voters/Elections
Department a ballot argument in favor of the measure contained in Section 7 hereof, by no later than
August 15, 2012.

Section 18. General Authorization with Respect to the Election. The members of the
District’s Board, the District’s Superintendent, and the other officers of the District, and each of them
individually, are hereby authorized and directed to do any and all things and to execute, deliver, and
perform any and all agreements and documents dial they deem necessary or advisable in order to
effectuate the purposes of this Resolution. All actions heretofore taken by the officers and agents of the
District that are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution are hereby ratified,
confirmed, and approved in all respects.

[Remainder of this page intentionally left blank.]

999136.310837.016

4

The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Governing Board of the Mojave Unified
School District on June 28,2012, by the following vote:

AYES: O
NOES: 0
ABSENT: 0

ABSTAIN: 0

ATTEST:

^ cJ\<

President, Governing Board
Mojave Unified School District

Clerk, Governing Board
Mojave Unified School District

999136.3 10837,016

5

EXHIBIT A

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Mojave Unified School District of Kern
County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Government Code of the State of
California, an election will be held on November 6, 2012, at which election the following measure shall
be submitted to the qualified electors of the District and voted upon:

“To maintain quality academic programs, school facilities, and activities that provide
improved college and career pathways, maintain effective student to teacher ratios, and help
offset severe state budget cuts, shall the Mojave Unified School District levy a parcel tax in
the amount of $42 to be levied annually for a period of five years, with mandatory audits, no
money for administrative salaries, and with every dollar staying in our local schools?”

The Kern County Superintendent of Schools, by this Notice of Election, has called the election
pursuant to a Resolution of lire Governing Board of the Mojave Unified School District, adopted
June 28,2012.

Dated: _______________________ __________________________________________

Kem County Superintendent of Schools

A-l

999136,3	10837.016

EXHIBIT B

MEASURE______

Mojave Unified School District

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To continue to provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain the high quality of
community schools, the Mojave Unified School District proposes to adopt an education parcel tax for a period of
5 years,, beginning July 1,2013, at the rale of $42 per year, on each parcel located within the Mojave Unified
School District, with an exemption available for senior citizens, and to implement accountability measures in
connection with said tax to provide oversight and accountability to ensure the funds are used for:

•	Maintaining the District's comprehensive high schools, maintaining music and arts programs,
and continuing support tor afterschool activities including band, athletics programs and
transportation;

•	Offering a full set of core and elective courses that satisfy college entrance requirements, so
students can maintain improved academic career paths for college and better paying careers
and jobs after graduation;

•	Providing educational programs that enhance academic achievement, increase test scores, and
maintain effective teacher to student ratios; and

•	Making required lease payments for school facilities and equipment so that existing funds are
more effectively used for direct classroom instruction.

AMOUNT OF EDUCATION PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT
The education parcel tax shall be $42 per year for five (5) years assessed against each parcel within the
boundaries of the Mojave Unified School District, The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited
into a separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the special tax, the term ^Parcel” means any parcel of land that lies wholly or partially within the
boundaries of the Mojave Unified School District, for which the Assessor of the County of Kern, as applicable,
has assigned an assessor’s parcel number.

EXEMPTION OF SENIORS

Pursuant to California Government Code section 50079(b), any owners who are 65 years of age or older of a
Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes may obtain an exemption from the
education parcel tax by annually submitting an application by June 15 of each year to the Board of Education of
the Mojave Unified School District in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the Board,

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075,1 and 50075,3, the following
accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the education parcel tax levied in accordance with this
Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the
proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above and shall not
be spent on administrative salaries; (c) a separate, special restricted fund shall be created into which the proceeds
of the education parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of
Education of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the
education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the
proceeds of the education parcel tax, as identified above; and (e) an annual independent financial audit of
revenues and expenditures shall be required.

999136,310837.016

B-l