TO

m

0

a

E

0

co

CITY

Y-City olF Garden Grbve

Hotel Visitors Ta* Modiftcatiari’s to Help

Preserve City Services

Shall an Ordinaries amending die Garden
Grpve Municipal Code to increase the Hotel
Visitors Tax from 13% to 14.5% and to clarify
the scope and manner in which the Hotel
Visitors Tax applleis jbe adopted to help
preserve general City services such as police
arid fire protection, street operations arid
maintenance, and paries arid recreation
services?

Yes

No

y

\

III 111111111 111! Ill III II	3663031177	Sample

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Y
CITY OF GARDEN GROVE

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF GARDEN GROVE
AMENDING CHAPTER 3.12 OF TITLE 3 OF THE GARDEN GROVE
MUNICIPAL CODE PERTAINING TO THE HOTEL VISITORS TAX

The people of the City of Garden Grove hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1. Code Amendment. Section 3.12.020 entitled ’Definitions" of Chapter 3.12 entitled "Hotel Visitors Tax" of Title 3 of the Garden Grove
Municipal Code is hereby amended to add or amend the following definitions to read in their entirety as follows:

‘"'Block Reservation” means an arrangement whereby a person reserves, whether on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, a room or block/group of
rooms for a defined period of lime under a written or oral agreement with an operator, intending for such room(s) to be occupied by that person’s
employees or agents on an intermittent, periodic or “as needed” basis during that defined period of time. A Block Reservation arrangement shall not
constitute a Qualifying Rental Agreement."

“ "Hotel" means any structure, or any portion of any structure, that is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling,
lodging, or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, iodginghouse, rooming house,
hostel, bed and breakfast, apartment house, dormitory, time-share project, public or private club, mobile home, or house trailer at a fixed location, or
other similar structure or portion thereof.”

“ "Operator" means the person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
time-share project owner’s association, licensee, or any other capacity. Where the Operator performs his functions through a managing agent of
any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an Operator for the purposes of this Chapter and shall
have the same duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter by either the principal or the managing agent
shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.”

* "Recreational vehicle space0 means any space set aside in a recreational vehicle park that is intended, or designed for toe occupancy of a
recreational vehicle, including, but not limited to, a camper, van, trailer, motor home, or similar vehicle, that is used for dwelling, lodging orsleeping
purposes by transients,”

“ "Rent" means the total consideration charged, whether or not received, for toe occupancy of space in a hotel or of a recreational vehicle space,
valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor, or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property and services of any
kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever. Rent shall include the total consideration charged by the Operator for
accommodations, including, but not limited to, any separate charges levied for non-optional items or services that are incidental to occupancy,
including, but not limited to, furniture, fixtures, appliances, linens, towels, non-coin-operated safes, utilities (such as energy surcharges), maid
service, internet connection charges, and parking fees."

“ Transient" means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license, or
other agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person so
occupying or entitled to occupy space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty (30) consecutive and uninterrupted days of
occupancy has expired, unless there is a Qualifying Rental Agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a longer
period of occupancy. Any break or interruption in occupancy shall start a new thirty (30) day period subject to the tax. in determining whether a
person is a transient, uninterrupted period^ of time extending both prior and subsequent to the effective date of the Ordinance codified herein may
be considered.

In the case of a block reservation, a person’s employee or agent shall be deemed a transient if that employee or agent exercises or is entitled to
occupancy of a room for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, regardless of the duration of any block reservation agreement. 8y
way of example, if a corporation enters into a one-year block reservation agreement with an operator and one of the corporation's employees
occupies a room for thirty (30) calendar days, the employee shall be deemed a transient whose occupancy is subject to the tax, notwithstanding the
fact that the block reservation agreement has a duration longer than thirty (30) calendar days.” ”

“ “Time-Share Project” means a structure or real property (including airspace) in which either a time-share estate or a time-share use (as those
terms are defined in Section 11212 of the Business and Professions Code) and any similar form of ownership involving a right in perpetuity, for life,
or for a term of years, to occupy any room, place or area has been sold.” ”

Section 2. Code Amendment. Section 3.12.030 entitled "Tax Imposed" of Chapter 3.12 entitled "Hotel Visitors Tax" of Title 3 of the Garden Grove
Municipal Code is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:

"A, For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel or other transient lodgings as defined in this Chapter, each transient is subject to and shall pay a
tax in the amount of fourteen and one-half percent (14.5%) of toe rent charged by the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed by toe
transient and/or owner to the City that is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to toe City. The tax shall be paid to the operatorof
the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The
unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing occupancy. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the Tax
Administrator may require that such tax be paid directly to the City.

B.	Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, all provisions relating to hotels shall be applicable to recreational vehicle spaces, and all
references to “hotel” or “a room”, "rooms”, or “space” in.a hotel shall be deemed to include recreational vehicle spaces.”

Section 3. Code Amendment. Subsections B, C, D, E, and F are hereby added to Section 3.12.050 entitled "Operator’s Duties" of Chapter 3.12 entitled
"Hotel Visitors Tax' of Title 3 of the Garden Grove Municipal Code to read in their entirety as follows:

“B, Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection A, the operator shall not be required to separately state the amount of rent and toe amount of
the tax on receipts and books of record when room accommodations constitute a portion of a collective group of services, privileges,
entitlement or benefits (“Benefits”) that include, at a minimum, room accommodations and food and beverage services, or room
accommodations and at least one other benefit having an ascertainable fair market value (“Special Packages”) offered for one fixed price
(“Special Package Rate") provided the operator complies with Subsection C.

C.	The operator shall file with the Tax Administrator a statement of each Special Package on a form Special Package Application, provided by
the Tax Administrator. The Special Package Application shall detail toe Benefits of the Special Package and an itemization of each portion of
the Special Package that is rent and tax. TheTaxAdministratorshall mark the date of receipt on the Special Package Application and review
the submitted information to determine if sufficient information Is provided to verify that the value of the Benefits, rent, and tax. The Operator
shall designate a specific name or number to the Special Package Application as part of the Special Package Application. The Special
Package Application shall notbe accepted unless accompanied by a fee for processing that has been established by City Council Resolution,

1.	■ The name or number designated on the Special Package Application shall appear on all receipts and books of record whenever the

Special Package is sold.

2.	if the Special Package Application is deerne'd lncompletejhe Tax Administrator wiii.apvise'the .opeFator of any required changes within
fourteen (14) business days. The operator must either make the required changes' ahdresubfnft the Special Package Application or
comply with Subsection A.

3.	The Tax Administrator shall approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the Special Package within fourteen (14) days of receipt of a
complete Special Package Application. In the event of disapproval, the Tax Administrator shall give the operator written notice of the
reasons for disapproval. The effective date of the Special Package Rate shall be the date on which the fax Administrator receives a
complete Special Package Application that is approved. A new Special Package Application shall be submitted whenever the
operator changes the rent or Benefits of any- previously approved Special Package.

D.	The tax shall apply only to the amount of rent. Identified in the Special Package that has been approved by the Tax Administrator.

E.	If the operator falls to either separately state the amount of the tax- and the rent in accordance with Subsection A or to.obtain approval of a
Special Package Rate pursuant to Subsection C, the rent to Which the tax Is deemed to apply (tfie-"lmputed Rate’’) shall be theiesser of (1) the
amount collected for the total Special Package, of (2) an amount equal to the median average double occupancy room rate for the
accommodations as posted in the room pursuant to the requirements of Section 1363 of the Civil Code of-aby successor statute.

F.	Notwithstanding Subsections C and D, above, if any audit reveals that the gross ihcome .to the operator attributable to the rent portion of a
Special Package, (the “Audited Rate") is more than ten percent (10%) greater than the rent speciffed ihthe Special Package, then the rent for
purposes of calculating. the tax shall be the Audited Rate, In the event Subsection 3,12.050(E) applips; and the Audited Rate is greater than
the Imputed Rate, the rent for tax purposes shall be the Audited Rate. The Audited Rate shall be determined by an audit of a sample of the
Special Packages.soid by the operator within each Special'Package category, The Audited Rate shall be the amount of the Special Package
Rate remaining after deducting the fair market vafue of each Of the Benefits included in the Special Package Rate other than room
accommodationsand tax. Where more than one: type Of Special Package is offered within the audibpefiod, ea'ch Special Package shall be
audited separately for purposes of determining the appficabie.Audited Rat e, credits, or offsets shall not be allowed between different Special
Packages.”

Section 4, Repeal. Alteration. Modification. Notwithstanding Section 9217 of the California Elections Code,- without a vote of the People, the City
Council may amend any of the provisions adopted pursuant to this Ordinance in a manner that does not impose, extend, or increase the rate oMhe Hotel
Visitors l ax.

Section 5. Severability. If.any section, subsection, subdivision, sentence,.clause, phrase, word, orpoition.of this Ordinance Is, for any reason, held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by the. decision of any court, of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance. The People of the City of Garden Grove hereby declare that they would have adopted this Ordinance and. each soction, subsection, subdivision,
sentence, clause, phrase, word, or portion thereof, irrespective of the faot that any one or more sections, subsections; subdivisions, sentences, clauses,
phrases, words or portions thereof be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 6.	Effect of Ordinance, ff adopted, this Ordinance will increase the rate of the City's existing Hofei Visitors fax, which is a general tax of the City,

by one and on.e-haif percent (:1,5%), This Ordinance was proposed by the City Council of the City of Garden Grove through approval and introduction of the
Ordinance and the adoption of Resolution No. 9124-12 with the affirmative vote of at feast four Members of the City Council as required by Government
Code Section 53724(b), Except as expressly amended by this Ordinance, allprovisions of Chapter 3.12 of Title 3:of the Garden Grove Municipal Code shall
remain in 'full force and effect.

Section 7. Effective^ QSfe. The City Clerk shall certify as to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance. This Ordinance shall take effect ten (10) days
following the date on which the. City Council of the City of Garden Grove declares that this Ordinance was adopted by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure at the municipal election on Tuesday, November 6,2012.

The foregoing ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED by the People of the City Of Garden Grove voting on the 6th day of November,
2012, which vote was .certified by the City Council op the____day of______________,	2012.	I

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF GARDEN GROVE
MEASUREY

The Hotel Visitors Tax is a tax paid by guests that stay in hotels* motels or other similar accommodations (collectively -hotels”) in the City of Garden
Grove. The Current Hotel Visitors Tax rate, that was approved by Garden Grove voters in 2082, is 13% of the rcofn rental rate. The tax revenues generated
are used'for general City qf Garden Grove governmental .purposes such as police, fire, street maintenance, and: park and recreation services. If approved by
a majority of the voters, this measure will enact an ordinance increasing the tax rate from 13% to 14.5%.

This measure would also clarify existing language in the Garden Grove Municipal Code to (t).ertsure that Garden Grove receives the full amount of
the tax due for room rental when hotels offer packages that combine room rirttal charges with other activities, such as amusement park tickets or food
services; (2) confirm the application of the tax to time-share projects; (3) confirm the application of the tax to “block reservations" (i.e. reserving a group.of
rooms for “as needed” use), usually triads by corporations for intermittent use by corporate employees; and (4). update other existing provisions clarifying the
scope and application of the Hotei Visitors Tax.

in order to enact the amendments to the City's Municipal Code described above. Measure Y must be approved by a majority of the votes cast by the
voters on the bailot measure..

|	A	“yes”	vote	on	Measure	Y	will approve the amendments to the Gity'S Municipal Code described above.

A "nd” vote on Measure Y will disapprove the amendments to the City’s Municipal Code described above;

s/ Thomas F. Nixon
City Attorney

/

argument in favor of measure y	
We urge you to vote YES on Measure Y.	
Measure Y will provide badly needed funds for police, fire, and other essential city services, Measure Y authorizes an increase in the Hotel Visitor Tax by 1.5%. This, increase will be paid for by tourists who stay in Garden Grove hotels... not Garden Grove residents.	
Measure Y will help ensure that the hotels pay their fair shard for city services.	
We have studied this issue and want to give you the facts about the Hotel Visitor Tax.	
The Hotel Visitor Tax in Garden Grove provides essential funds to run city services. Garden Grove's public safety professionals support j Measure Y because it will provide nearly $1:5 million dollars. per year to	
the City of Garden Grove...rhohey that will mean safer streets and greater security.  Garden Grove currently has a 13% Hotel Visitor Tax that each hotel visitor pays. This is added on to each hotel .bill at the end of a tourist's	
stay. Almost every community.in America has this tax. Tourists staying in Anaheim pay a 15% visitor tax. Measure Y will increase the Garden Grove Visitor tax to 14.5%, still lower than neighboring Anaheim, Garden Grove's hotel operators have studied this issue and are firmly convinced that a 1,5% Increase will not harm their businesses or tourism. We will still be competitively lower than Anaheim!	
We must be ready to meet.new challenges. These are difficult times for our country and our community. We need to make sure that our local government can respond in any emergency situation or crisis. Measure Y will help keep Garden Grove ready to respond to any emergency situation.	N \ / -. i
REMEMBER, THIS TAX IS PAID FOR BY TOURISTS. WHO USE OUR CITY SERVICES...NOT GARDEN GROVE RESIDENTS.	' r -
WE URGE YOU TO VOTE YES ON MEASURE Y	
s/ Bruce Broadwater Council Member	1
s/ Kris Beard Council Member	

No argument against this measure was submitted.