MEASURE P

City of Fairfield	
To address the City of Fairfield’s Fiscal Emergency, offset significant budget cuts and state financial takeaways, and maintain City services, including neighborhood police patrols, firefighters, 9-1-1 response times, crime, drug and gang prevention programs, maintenance of streets, medians and street lights, parks and recreation services, and other general services, shall an ordinance be adopted to enact a one cent sales tax for five years, with citizen’s oversight, annual independent audits and all funds spent only in Fairfield?	YES
	NO

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

Ballot Measure P asks the voters of the City of Fairfield to approve
a transactions and use tax ordinance (the “sales tax ordinance”)
that would increase the City’s existing sales tax rate by 0.1% or
one cent for every dollar of taxable sales of goods in the City, and
on the taxable storage, use or consumption in the City of goods
purchased. The total sales tax rate currently paid in the City of
Fairfield, which also includes the sales tax rate collected for the
State of California and the Solano County Library, is 7.375%. If
Measure P is approved by the voters, the total sales tax rate in the
City will increase to 8.375%.

The proposed tax is a general tax. The tax revenues will be
deposited in the City’s general fund and may be used for any
municipal purpose. The City Council declared a fiscal emergency
and unanimously voted to place this sales tax measure on the ballot
at a special election of the City in order to fund public services
such as police and fire protection, street maintenance and park
and recreation facilities as well as other general City services. It is
estimated by the City’s Finance Director that this measure will raise
approximately SI 2 to $13 million per year in general fund revenue
for the City beginning in the 2013/2014 fiscal year.

The tax is subject to an independent annual financial audit that
will review whether the tax is collected, managed and expended
in accordance with the requirements of the proposed ordinance.
In addition, the sales tax ordinance requires the City Council to
establish an independent Fairfield Taxpayer’s Committee to review
the expenditure of the tax revenues raised by the proposed tax. If
adopted by the voters, the tax would be in effect for five years and
terminate on March 31,2018. A full copy of the text of the sales tax
ordinance is printed in these ballot materials.

Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, commonly known
as Prop. 218, requires that the proposed tax be approved by a
majority of the voters voting on the ballot measure. A “yes” vote on
Measure P enacts the sales tax ordinance. A “no” vote will result
in the tax not being adopted.

si Gregory Stepanicich
City Attorney

4 8/61

Solano 48/61

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Tired of Sacramento taking our money? Then do something about it!
Vote Yes on P to Protect Fairfield.

YES on P gives Fairfield LOCAL control over LOCAL funds for LOCAL
needs - NONE of these funds can be taken by Sacramento!

The State has already seized more than $44 million in the last three
years from Fairfield to deal with its own budget mess. Measure P
provides a protected, reliable source of local revenue to prevent
additional severe cuts to the services we all relv on.

Fairfield has already cut millions from its budget by eliminating 150 staff
positions and reducing city employee salaries, benefits and pensions.
Unless we can generate additional funding provided by Measure P, we
will experience:

•	Slower 9-1-1 police and emergency response times

•	Additional cuts to crime, drug, and gang prevention programs

•	The ability to only investigate the most severe, violent crimes

•	The closing of a fire station and firefighter layoffs

•	Significant reductions to or closure of the youth center and
senior center

YES on P will protect Fairfield’s current levels of police and fire services
including rapid 9-1-1 emergency response times, neighborhood police
patrols, crime and gang prevention programs, and police investigations.
Yes on P prevents closure of a fire station and firefighter layoffs.

YES on P requires strong fiscal accountability, with annual audits and
Independent Citizens Oversight to monitor spending - ensuring that
all funds are spent as promised. By law, YES on P requires that every
penny be used for Fairfield services only - again, NO money can be
taken bv Sacramento.

Yes on P is temporary and legally required to expire automatically in 5
years. It cannot be extended without voter approval.

Join Fairfield’s business and community leaders, police officers and
firefighters.in voting YES on P to PROTECT FAIRFIELD!

si George Curry

Fairfield/Suisun Youth Soccer League Board Member

si Kathy Parsons

Fairfield Business Owner

si David C. Isom

Reverend, St. Stephen CME Church

si Betty Holland
Senior Advocate

si President, Fairfield Police Officers Assn
Brian Pereira

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

We told you so!

They’re threatening to curtail police and fire protection if we don’t pass
this tax.

Let’s remind our elected officials: a government’s primary purpose
is to protect the public. That means making sure that police and fire
services are adequate to the local situation; and that public facilities
are cared for properly. Everything else comes second.

It took years for the City to get into this bind; it’ll take at least a few years
to get revenue and spending back in balance. But it won’t happen if
we keep sending money...passing Measure P just postpones the day
of reckoning.

There are lots of things that the City can do to reduce spending.
Just recently, a new non-profit organization, the Downtown Theater
Foundation, contracted to operate the Fairfield Center for Creative Arts.
Now the building will remain alive! The same kind of arrangements
can be made to keep other facilities open. If the public values some
amenity, volunteers will have to step up. It just takes imagination and
initiative.

So let’s send the message loud and clear: Live within vour means...
like we and our families have to do.

Measure P just kicks the can down the road!

Vote NO on P

si Vice President, Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group
William D. Sanders

si Lorine Patton
Past President, Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group

si Vern F.Van Buskirk
Past President, Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group

s/ John F.Takeuchi
Past President, Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group

si Cornelius E. Wood
Systems Analyst, Retired USAF

111

Solano 48/62

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

Here they go again.

When a government body wants to pass a tax, it threatens citizens with
all kinds of calamities; like losing police and fire protection, shutting
down senior centers, and the like. They think that such tactics will
frighten us into voting for the tax.

Here’s what you should be thinking about:

That any tax increase hits poor people especially hard. They
will pay a larger proportion of their income than others do.

That in spite of promising that the money will preserve fire and
police protection, a general sales tax measure cannot make such
guarantees. In fact, the City can spend the revenues any way
it wants.

That the state constitution tells local governments that
public safety is their highest priority!

That you will pay 8.375 percent on everything you buy in Fairfield.
If the Governor’s tax also passes, you will pay 8.625 percent.
That’s going to harm local businesses.

That our City Council has NOT done all it can to reduce costs.

Like most cities, Fairfield has been hit hard by the recession; but few
cities are declaring bankruptcy or calling on their citizens to raise
taxes. It’s past time that governments learn to live within their means!

Vote NO on Measure P! It hurts us all.

si Vice President, Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group
William D. Sanders

si Lorine Patton

Past President, Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group

si Vern F.Van Buskirk

Past President, Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group

si John F.Takeuchi

Past President, Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group

si Cornelius E. Wood

Systems Analyst, Retired USAF

Let’s consider the FACTS in Fairfield:

The State has taken more than $44 million from Fairfield-funds that
have traditionally been used to protect and strengthen the community.

We have two choices:

1.	Continue sending our tax dollars to Sacramento
OR

2.	Provide a protected source of local funding for the most important
local services that keep us safe and protect our quality of life

The choice is easy: Vote YES on P to give Fairfield LOCAL control over
LOCAL funds for LOCAL needs - NONE of these funds can be taken
by Sacramento!

Here’s the truth:

ADDITIONAL CUTS WILL DIRECTLY IMPACT PUBLIC SAFETY
SERVICES

Fairfield has aggressively cut millions by eliminating 150 staff positions
and reducing city employee salaries, benefits and pensions. With
nearly 80% of the city’s budget going to services like police patrols,
fire protection and 9-1-1 emergency response, any additional cuts will
DIRECTLY IMPACT VITAL LOCAL SERVICES. That’s why Fairfield’s
police officers and firefighters support Measure P.

YES ON P IS GOOD FOR LOCAL BUSINESSES

Fairfield businesses only have to look to Vallejo, Stockton and Oakland
for glaring examples of how crime, drugs, gang activity and declining
local services hurt business by driving away customers and good
employees. That's why Fairfield business leaders support Measure P.

YES ON P REQUIRES STRICT FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY

Terminates in 5 years, mandatory audits and an Independent Citizens’
Oversight Committee ensure that all funds are spent as promised.

Join Fairfield's most respected leaders and vote Yes on P to PROTECT
FAIRFIELD!

s J. M.Sturdee
Fairfield Fire Captain

si Treasurer, Fairfield Police Management Association
Greg Hurlbut

si President, BOD, Fairfield Mainstreet Association
Scott Tonnesen

si Don McDonald
Fairfield Small Business Owner

s/C. S. Grimard
Executive Director North Texas Street Business Association

lillljlri SI lill III
4 8/63

Solano 48/63

MEASUREP

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. A new Article VII is hereby added to Chapter 18 (“Taxation’’) of the Fairfield Municipal Code, to read as follows:

“18.70 TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Fairfield Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Fairfield hereinafter
shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

18.71.	OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

18.72.	PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof
be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the
State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State
Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

18.73.	CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

18.74.	TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 1.0% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property
sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

18.75.	PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery
to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more
than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

18.76.	USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of 1.0% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

18.77. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they

Ml uiinuiii

4 8/64

Solano 48/64

are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth
herein.

18.78.	LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State" in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203
and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

18.79.	PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

18.80.	EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed
by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale,
by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of

4 8 / 6 5

Solano 48/65

perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor
is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible
personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions
and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is
a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax
from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

18.81.	AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

18.82.	ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

18.83.	SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the

4 8/66

Solano 48/66

remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

18.84.	INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL AUDIT. By no later than December 31 of each year, the City’s independent auditors shall complete
a Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance Compliance and Internal Control Audit Report. Such report shall review whether the tax revenues collected
pursuant to this ordinance are collected, managed and expended in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.

18.85.	FAIRFIELD TAXPAYERS COMMITTEE. By no later than June 30,2013, the City Council shall establish a Fairfield Taxpayers
Committee to review the expenditure of revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance. The Committee shall consist of at least five members
appointed by the City Council. The Committee members shall be residents and taxpayers in the City. The terms of the Committee members and
their specific duties shall be established by resolution of the City Council.

18.86.	TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on March 31,2018, at 11:59 p.m.”

Section 2. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Section 3. The City Clerk shall certify the passage of this ordinance, publish or post the same as required by applicable law, and forward a
copy of the adopted ordinance to the Board of Equalization.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the People of the City of Fairfield, State of California, on November 6,2012.

Mayor

Attest:

(Signature)

City Clerk

