

<impartial> RENEWAL OF THE ABANDONED VEHICLE
ABATEMENT PROGRAM
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “H” BY
BUTTE COUNTY COUNSEL

This analysis of the renewal of the
abandoned vehicle abatement program fee measure,
Measure H, is prepared and submitted in accordance
with Elections Code Section 9160. Sections 22710
and 9250.7 of the California Vehicle Code authorize
the establishment of the Butte County Abandoned
Vehicle Authority (AVA), as well as the imposition of
a fee on all vehicles registered in Butte County. The
fee, which is referred to as the AVA Fee, is charged
at a rate of one ($1.00) dollar for every vehicle
registered in the County, and an additional two
($2.00) dollars for certain commercial vehicles
registered in the County. The AVA Fees are
collected by the California Department of Motor
Vehicles (DMV) and are then dispersed to the Butte
County Abandoned Vehicle Authority. The fees may
only be used for the abatement, removal, and
disposal of any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or
inoperative vehicles, or vehicle parts, located on
private or public property within Butte County. The
AVA Fee must be renewed every ten (10) years.

A YES vote would authorize the DMV to
continue collecting the AVA Fee in the amount of one
($1.00) dollar for every vehicle registered in Butte
County, and an additional two ($2.00) dollars for
certain commercial vehicles registered in Butte
County, for a term of ten (10) years.

A NO vote would mean that the DMV would
stop collecting the AVA Fee.

The AVA Fee will not be renewed, and the
AVA Fee will not be collected, unless the measure is

approved by sixty six percent (66%) of the registered
voters voting on Measure H. <impartialend>



<impartialsigs> Is/ Bruce S. Alpert
Butte County Counsel <impartialsigsed>




<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

Vote Yes on Measure H will continue an important local
program for all residents of Butte County, the cities of
Biggs, Chico, Gridley, Oroville and the Town of
Paradise through the Butte County Abandoned Vehicle
Abatement (AVA) program. Removal of abandoned
vehicles helps reduce risks to the environment, safety
hazards and maintain the visual beauty of our
community. Risks to the environment include fluids
leaking or rust leaching from abandoned vehicles that
can enter waterways or habitats through drainage
systems. Vehicles abandoned in roadways present
safety hazards for other motorists and pedestrians by
occupying a portion of a roadway or shoulder.
Abandoned or wrecked vehicles left on our roadways in
our communities and rural areas are an eyesore.

The Butte County AVA started as a ten-year program in
2003. The AVA provides residents with a program that
is responsive to complaints and results in proper
removal of abandoned vehicles. Since 2003, the $1 fee
per vehicle and $2 fee for certain commercial vehicles
has been collected on vehicle registrations and has
resulted in the removal of over 5,596 abandoned
vehicles. During this same time period over $1.6 million
was generated through the local fee to help fund the
vehicle removal, program administration and reporting
requirements. Voting Yes on Measure H will not create
a new fee but will continue the same fee that has been
collected since 2003 for an additional ten-year period.
Vote Yes on Measure H. <favorend>




<favorsigs> /s/ Maureen Kirk, Supervisor, District 3
/s/ Larry Wahl, Supervisor, District 2
/s/ Kim Yamaguchi, Supervisor, District 5 <favorsigsend>





NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H
WAS SUBMITTED




<resolution> Resolution No. 12-088

A RESOLUTION OF THE BUTTE COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS TO PLACE A MEASURE ON
THE NOVEMBER 6, 2012, BALLOT TO RENEW FEES PURSUANT TO VEHICLE CODE SECTIONS
9250.7 AND 22710

WHEREAS, sections 22710 and 9250.7 of the California Vehicle Code authorized the establishment of the
Butte County Abandoned Vehicle Abatement Program (“AVA”), which was formed in 2003 and authorized the
imposition of a fee on vehicles registered in Butte County, referred to as the AVA Fee; and

WHEREAS, these registration fees are used exclusively for the abatement, removal, and disposal of any
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative vehicles or vehicle parts as public nuisances, on private or
public property, to combat neighborhood blight and decay; and

WHEREAS, California Vehicle Code sections 9250.7 and 22710 were amended to allow an extension of the
registration fees in increments of up to 10 years; and

WHEREAS, sections 22710 and 9250.7 of the California Vehicle Code require a county’s board of supervisors,
by a two-thirds vote, and the majority of cities with the majority of the incorporated population within the
county to adopt resolutions approving an extension of the registration fees; and

WHEREAS, Proposition 26, adopted by the voters of California in 2010, altered the definition of a fee and
resulted in the classification of the AVA Fee as a special tax subject to voter approval; and

WHEREAS, the AVA abated approximately 5,596 abandoned vehicles in Butte County since the program’s
inception; and

WHEREAS, the current AVA Fee sunsets on July 31, 2013, and the County and cities within the County will be
unable to recover a significant portion of the costs of abating nuisance vehicles; and

WHEREAS, the requisite number of cities has submitted resolutions to the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
seeking renewal of the AVA Fee and requesting the Board of Supervisors to call for an election thereon,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1.	The Board of Supervisors, by at least a two-thirds vote, does hereby extend the authorization to collect
the AVA Fee for a period of ten (10) years, subject to approval by the electors of the county.

2.	The Board hereby orders an election and submits to the electors of Butte County the question of whether
the AVA Fee, as authorized by Vehicle Code sections 9250.7 and 22710, shall be renewed for 10 years.
The question to be submitted to the County voters at said election shall be:

MEASURE_____, Renewal of the Abandoned Vehicle Abatement Program.

Should the Butte County Abandoned Vehicle Abatement Program and associated fees (one dollar
per vehicle and an additional two dollars for certain commercial vehicles) be renewed for a ten
year term under California Vehicle Code Sections 9250.7 and 22710, or any successor statutes
thereto, for purposes of removal and disposal of abandoned and wrecked vehicles?

YES	[ ]

NO	[ ]

3.	The date of the election shall be November 6, 2012, and the election shall be held solely within the
boundaries of Butte County.

4.	The purpose of the election shall be for the voters in Butte County to vote on a measure as described
herein.

5.	The Butte County Clerk-Recorder is designated as the Elections Official for said AVA Fee election and
is hereby requested to consolidate the election with any and all other elections to be held on November 6,
2012, within Butte County. The Butte County Clerk-Recorder is hereby authorized and directed to
provide all notices and take all other actions necessary to holding the said election, including (but not
limited to) providing notices of times within which arguments for and against the tax measure are to be
submitted. The costs of said election are to be paid by the County.

6.	Said election shall be held and conducted pursuant to the procedures specified in Part 3 of Division 10 of
the Elections Code commencing at Section 10400.

7.	For the purposes of this election the “County Voters” shall include all voters in the County, including
voters in the incorporated areas of the County;

8.	The Board hereby authorizes and directs the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors to file with the Butte
County Clerk-Recorder certified copies of this resolution.

9.	The County Clerk-Recorder shall transmit a copy of the measure to the County Auditor and to County
Counsel in accordance with California Elections Code 9160.

10.	County Counsel shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure showing the effect of the measure on
the existing law and the operation of the measure. The analysis may not exceed 500 words in length and
shall be filed with the County Clerk-Recorder no later than 5:00 p.m. on August 17, 2012.

11.	No later than 88 days prior to the Election, the Board of Supervisors may direct the County Auditor to
review the measure and determine whether the substance thereof, if adopted, would affect the revenues or
expenditures of the County. The County Auditor shall prepare a fiscal impact statement which estimates

the amount of any increase or decrease in revenues or costs to the County if the proposed measure is
adopted. The fiscal impact statement may not exceed 500 words in length and shall be filed with the
County Clerk-Recorder no later than 5:00 p.m. on August 17, 2012.

12.	Arguments for and against the measure shall be filed in accordance with this resolution and applicable
provisions of law. Arguments for and against the measure shall be submitted to the Butte County Clerk-
Recorder on or before 5:00 p.m., August 17, 2012. Rebuttal arguments shall be submitted to the Butte
County Clerk-Recorder before 5:00 p.m., August 24, 2012. Any argument shall not exceed 300 words in
length and shall not be signed by more than five persons. Any rebuttal shall not exceed 250 words in
length and shall not be signed by more than five persons; those persons may be different persons than
those who signed the direct arguments.

13.	Any and all members of the Board are hereby authorized to act as an author of any ballot argument
prepared in connection with the election referenced herein, including a rebuttal argument.

14.	The County Administrative Officer, or designee, is authorized to take all administrative actions necessary
to accomplish the orders set forth in this Resolution.

15.	Upon completion of the vote count for this measure, the Butte County Clerk-Recorder will prepare a
certified statement of the results of the election and submit it to the Board of Supervisors. The Board of
Supervisors will declare the results of the election as to this measure.

16.	Upon approval of this measure by at least two-thirds of the registered voters voting on the measure, the
Board will be authorized to impose the AVA Fee and submit this Resolution, together with certified
results of the election, to the Department of Motor Vehicles to implement the charge without further
action for an additional ten years.

17.	This Resolution shall take effect on and after its adoption.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Butte County Board of Supervisors, State of California, on the 31st day of
July, 2012, by the following votes:

AYES: Supervisors Connelly, Wahl, Kirk, Yamaguchi and Chair Lambert
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
NOT VOTING: None

ATTEST:  <resolutionend>