117

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General Election

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet
On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

COUNTY MEASURES

B Shall an ordinance be adopted requiring producers of adult films to obtain 132 yes^o

a County public health permit, to require adult film performers to use ------------------------------

condoms while engaged in sex acts, to provide proof of blood borne 133 no-*o

pathogen training course, to post permit and notices to performers, and making-----------------------------

violations of the ordinance subject to civil fines and criminal charges?

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

J Accelerating Traffic Relief, Job Creation. To advance Los Angeles 136	yes^o

County's traffic relief, economic/job growth by accelerating light rail/----------------------------

subway construction and airport connections, within five years, not 137	NO-KD

twenty; funding countywide freeway, bridge, safety and traffic riow---------------------------------------

improvements; fixing potholes; keeping senior, student, disabled fares low; Shall Los Angeles County’s
voter-approved one-half cent traffic relief sales tax continue without increase for another 30 years or until
voters decide to end it, with independent audits and keeping funds local?

DISTRICT

MOUNTAINS RECREATION AND CONSERVATION AUTHORITY

MM

143

To protect, maintain and conserve local open space, parklands
and wildlife corridors; protect water quality in local creeks and
reservoirs; improve fire	prevention including	brush	clearing;

acquire open space, and increase park ranger safety and security patrols, shall
the Mountains Recreation and Conservation Authority implement a special $19 tax annually for ten years only,
with all funds staying in the hillside communities of Woodland Hills, Encino, and Tarzana, and require
independent citizen oversight and audits?

142

yes-k)

NO+O

END OF BALLOT

06-082E

N LA 117-011

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE MM

MOUNTAINS RECREATION AND CONSERVATION AUTHORITY SPECIAL
TAX FOR OPEN SPACE PROTECTION, PARK RANGER SAFETY AND
SECURITY PATROLS AND FIRE PREVENTION

The Mountains Recreation and Conservation Authority (“MRCA”) is a local
park agency whose members include the Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy
and that is responsible for maintaining and improving open space, parkland and
wildlife corridors within the Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy Zone.

Unlike most public agencies, the MRCA and Santa Monica Mountains
Conservancy do not receive permanent ongoing funding from local or state taxes.
A major challenge the MRCA now faces is that its revenues have decreased
significantly. Moreover, in two years the MRCA will lose another $1.6 million
per year in funding from Los Angeles County Proposition A, which is set to
expire at that time.

These dramatic revenue decreases have already forced the MRCA to make
difficult reductions in its open space and parkland maintenance services and
reductions to its local fire prevention and safety and security services.

In order to continue to preserve and maintain extensive open space, parkland,
wildlife corridors, natural habitats, lands, waters, and related facilities; and to
protect water quality and provide park ranger safety and security patrols and fire
prevention services including brush clearing, the MRCA is proposing a local
special tax within a community facilities district located in a designated portion
of the Santa Monica Mountains west of Interstate 405 and east of the City of
Calabasas, as shown on the map accompanying this proposition (the “Woodland
Hills, Encino and Tarzana Hillside Areas”). The MRCA currently maintains
over 1,000 acres of local open space, parkland and wildlife corridors, in the
Woodland Hills, Encino and Tarzana Hillside Areas.

The summary of the proposed ballot proposition is:

To protect, maintain and conserve local open space, parklands and wildlife
corridors; protect water quality in local creeks and reservoirs; improve fire
prevention including brush clearing; acquire open space, and increase park
ranger safety and security patrols, shall the Mountains Recreation and
Conservation Authority implement a special $19 tax annually for ten years only,
with all funds staying in the hillside communities of Woodland Hills, Encino, and
Tarzana, and require independent citizen oversight and audits?

(Continued on next page)

PR-905413-1

N LA 117-033

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE MM (Continued)

Developed parcels subject to the special tax are those parcels that appear on the
annual secured Los Angeles County property tax rolls, and that have been
improved for residential, commercial or other purposes. Unimproved parcels
within the Woodland Hills, Encino and Tarzana Hillside Area shall be exempt
from the special tax.

If approved by the voters, the special tax will be used for the purposes of
maintaining, improving, servicing, protecting, and preserving open space,
parkland, wildlife corridors, natural habitats, lands, waters, and facilities owned
or managed by the MRCA within the Woodland Hills, Encino and Tarzana
Hillside Areas; and for financing the acquisition of additional open space in the
Woodland Hills, Encino and Tarzana Hillside Areas; (“Services and Facilities”);
and paying any administrative or incidental expenses thereto, including any costs
related to the collection or use of the special tax. The Services and Facilities
include, but are not limited to, the protection of water quality, the reduction of
the risk of wildfires, park ranger safety and security services, and the collection
and accumulation of reserves for the aforementioned purposes.

The special tax revenues shall be deposited into a separate account for exclusive
use by the Mountains Recreation and Conservation Authority, in accordance
with Government Code Section 50075.1, and shall be expended by the MRCA
according to a plan developed annually by the MRCA’s staff and approved and
adopted by the MRCA’s Board of Directors. A citizens’ oversight committee
appointed by the Board will review and report annually on the expenditure of the
special tax revenues.

The MRCA will submit an annual report to its Board of Directors, which
includes the amount of special tax revenues collected and expended, and fully
complies with the accountability measures established in Government Code
Sections 50075 et seq.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905413-2

N LA 117-034

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE MM (Continued)

MAP OF THE WOODLAND HILLS, ENCINO AND TARZANA HILLSIDE
AREAS PROPOSED FOR THE SPECIAL TAX

PR-905413-3

N LA 117-035

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE MM

By John F. Krattli, County Counsel

Approval of Measure MM would authorize the Governing Board (“Board”) of
the Mountains Recreation and Conservation Authority (“MRCA”) to impose a
special parcel tax (“Tax”) of $19 per year, for ten years, on all taxable developed
real property within a community facilities district located in a designated
portion of the Santa Monica Mountains west of Interstate 405 and east of the
City of Calabasas (the “Woodland Hills, Encino, and Tarzana Hillside Areas” or
“Areas”).

The MRCA is a local park agency whose members include the Santa Monica
Mountains Conservancy, that is responsible for maintaining and improving open
space, parkland and wildlife corridors within the Santa Monica Mountains
Conservancy Zone.

The proceeds of the Tax will be used for the purpose of maintaining, acquiring,
improving, servicing, protecting, and preserving open space, parkland, wildlife
corridors, natural habitats, lands, waters and facilities; protecting water quality
and providing fire prevention and park ranger safety and security; and to pay for
related administrative or incidental costs.

The Tax shall be collected annually through the County of Los Angeles property
tax bill in the same manner as the County property taxes are collected, and
subject to the same penalties. The proceeds of the Tax shall be deposited into a
separate account for the exclusive use of MRCA, in accordance with
Government Code section 50075.1. The MRCA will submit an annual report to
the Board showing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status
of any projects required or authorized to be funded from the Tax. In addition,
the Board shall appoint an independent citizen’s oversight committee to review
and report annually on the expenditure of the Tax. Unimproved parcels within
the Areas shall be exempt from the Tax.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-905413-4

N LA 117-036

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE MM

The Mountains Recreation and Conservation Authority manages the unique
system of open space, wildlife corridors, parklands, and trails behind our Encino,
Tarzana, and Woodland Hills homes in the Santa Monica Mountains. Unlike
most public agencies, the MRCA does not receive ongoing funding from local or
state taxes.

Measure MM will provide a temporary source of revenue to maintain fire
prevention services, ranger patrols, remove litter, and to protect open space and
wildlife corridors in our Woodland Hills, Tarzana, Encino hillside communities.

Measure MM will also improve water quality in our local creeks and reservoirs.

Measure MM will cost homeowners only $19 a year and can only be used to:

-	Provide for improved fire prevention services, including crews to clear dry
brush and other fire hazards

-	Protect open space in the hillside portions of the communities of Encino,
Tarzana, Woodland Hills

-	Acquire critical open space

-	Increase park ranger safety and security patrols to prevent crimes and
vandalism

-	Keep pollution and trash out of local creeks and reservoirs

-	Make needed upgrades and repairs to trails and trailheads

The threat of fires is real. Measure MM will reduce the risk of wildfires and
prevent drastic cutbacks in fire prevention, safety and security services, and the
maintenance of our local open spaces and parklands.

Measure MM will ensure that our local parklands, natural open spaces, and
streams are preserved for future generations and help maintain property values.

Every penny raised by Measure MM will stay in our communities and cannot be
taken away by the state or used in other areas or for other purposes.

A Citizen’s Oversight Committee will conduct annual audits to ensure funds are
spent properly and only for the above-listed purposes in the hillside areas of
Encino, Tarzana and Woodland Hills.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905413-5

N LA 117-03?

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE MM (Continued)

Please vote Yes on Measure MM

BOB BLUMENFIELD
Member, California State Assembly

PAUL KORETZ

Los Angeles City Councilmember

MARIAN DODGE
President, Hillside Federation

DAVID R. GARFINKLE
President, Tarzana Property Owners

ED BEGLEY, JR,

Actor/Environmental Advocate

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-905413,8

N LA 117-038