

CITY OF SACRAMENTO

MEASURE U

UCity of Sacramento Essential Services Protection
Measure “To restore and protect essential public
safety services, including 9-1-1 response, police
officers, gang/youtli. violence prevention, fire protec-
tion/emergency medical response, and other essential serv-
ices including park maintenance, youth/senior services, and
libraries, shall the City enact a one-half cent sales tax for six
years with all revenue legally required to stay in the City's
General Fund, none for the State, with independent annual
financial audits and citizen oversight?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

Prepared by Sacramento City Attorney .

Measure U, if approved by a majority of the voters, would
enact an ordinance that provides for a 14-cent tax on each dollar
of taxable sales of goods within the City of Sacramento, and on
the taxable storage, use, or consumption in the city of goods pur-
chased from a retailer. This is commonly referred to as a “sales
tax" and technically referred to as a "transactions and use tax.”
As a general tax, the revenues would be deposited into the city’s
general fund and could be used for any municipal government
purpose, including police and fire services, 911 response, park
maintenance, gang and youth violence prevention, youth servic-
es, senior services, libraries, and other programs.

The %-cent tax would be in addition to the existing sales tax,
and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner
as the existing sales tax. Currently, the combined state and local
sales tax rate in the City of Sacramento is 7.75%. If this measure
is approved by the voters, the combined rate would be 8.25%.

if approved, the 14-cent tax would go into effect on April 1,
2013, and expire on March 31, 2019. After that time, the 14-cent
tax authorized by this measure would no longer be imposed.

The revenues resulting from this tax would be subject to the
same independent annual audit as other genera! fund revenue.
Additionally,.the ordinance requires the establishment of a citizens
oversight committee to review the revenue and expenditure of
funds from the tax.

State law authorizes the city to levy this Vz-cent tax following
approval of the ordinance by two-thirds of the city council and' a
majority of the voters voting on the issue. The Sacramento City
Council approved the ordinance on July 24, 2012.

A “yes" vote is in favor of approving the ordinance establish-
ing the tax. A "no” vote is against approving the ordinance estab-
lishing the tax.

Sandra G. Talbott

Interim City Attorney

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE U

AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 3.26 TO THE
SACRAMENTO CITY CODE RELATING TO A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

BE IT ENACTED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SACRA-
MENTO:

SECTION 1.

Chapter 3.26 is added to the Sacramento City Code to read as
folows

3.26 Transactions and Use Tax

3.26.010	Title

This chapter shall be 'known as the City of Sacramento
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.

3.26.020	Purpose.

This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other pur-
poses, and directs that the provisions of this chapter be interpret-
ed in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax to be applied
throughout the entire territory of the city to the fullest extent per-
mitted by law and in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, which authorizes the city to adopt
this chapter if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for
that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the sales and use tax
law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in
a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires
the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and admin-
istrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State sates and use
taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions arid use tax ordinance that can
be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize
the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions of this chapter.

(e)	To provide transactions and use tax revenue to the city to be
used for the genera! governmental purposes of the city and with
any transactions and use tax revenue received being placed into
the city’s general fund.

3.26.030	Operative date.

This chapter shall be operative on the first day of the first calen-
dar quarter commencing at least 110 days after the adoption of
the ordinance codified in this chapter by vote of the electorate on
November 6, 2012.

3.26.040	Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordi-
nance; provided, that if the city shall not have contracted with the
State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nev-
ertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution
of such contract.

3.26.050	Transactions and sales tax rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a
tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territo-
ry of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) of the
gross receipts of any retailers for the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative
date of this chapter.

3.26.060	Place of sale.

For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated
at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible person-
al property sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to
an out-of-State destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out-of-State destination. The gross receipts from such sales
shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to
the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which deliv

Ballot Type 016 Page 35

www.elections.saccounty.net

ery is made, in the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the
place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.26.070	Use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other con-
sumption in the city of tangible personal property purchased from
any retailer on and after the operative date of this Chapter for stor-
age, use, or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-
half of one percent (.5%) of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to State sales or use tax regardless of .the place to which
delivery is made.

3.26.080	Adoption of provisions of state law.

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
Chapter as though fully set forth herein.

3.26.090 Limitation on adoption of state law and collection of
use taxes.

in adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as
the taxing agency, the name of this city shall be substituted. The
substitution, however, shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against this city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in per-
forming the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to cer-
tain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible person-
al property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain sub-
ject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not be subject to tax by the State under the said provision
of that Code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State" in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203
and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.26.100 Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section
6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional seller's
permit shall not be required by this chapter.

3.26.110 Exemptions and exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions
and sales tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use-
tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and coun

ty, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales j|
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any State-administered transac- [I
tions or use tax.	!l

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of I

transactions tax the gross receipts from:	1

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum 1
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principal- jj
ly outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and 1
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of per- ]
sons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the ■
United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to '
a point outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery
to such point by the retailer or his or her agent, or by delivery by
the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point.
For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the
city shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-
city address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her princi-
pal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of per-
jury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that
address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the operative date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (B)(3) and (B)(4) of this sec-
tion, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or (ease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such*right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by.this chapter,
the storage, use or other consumption in this city of tangible per-
sonal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to
a transactions tax under any State-administered transactions and
use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of per-
sons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a con-
tinuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which
the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by



5.	For the purposes of subsections (C)(3) and (C)(4) of this sec-
tion, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subsection (C)(7) of this section, a retail-
er engaged in business in the city shall not be required to collect
use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the city or partici-
pates within the city in making the sale of the property, including,
but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the city or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary,
or person in the city under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the city" shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented ves-
sels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to col-
lect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehi-
cle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the city.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for trans-
actions tax paid to a district imposing, of retailer liable for a trans-
actions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the prop-
erty the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to
the use tax.

E.	Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax
upon any person or service when the imposition of such tax upon
such person or service would be in violation of a federal or state
statute, the Constitution of the United States, or the Constitution
of the State of California.

3.26.120	Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this chapter to
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and
all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shad automatically become a part of
this chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter.

3.26.130 Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legai or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court
against the state or the city, or against any officer of the State or
the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter, or
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any
tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.26.140	Independent annual audit.

The proceeds resulting from this transactions and use tax shall be
deposited into the city’s general fund and become subject to the
same independent annual audit requirements as other general
fund revenue. The independent auditor’s report, which shall
include an accounting of the revenues received and expenditures
made from the transactions and use tax, will be presented annu-
ally to the city council and made available for public review.

3.26.150 Citizens Oversight Committee.

Although not otherwise required by law, the city council shall, by
resolution adopted before the operative date of this chapter.

establish a citizens oversight committee to review the revenue

and expenditure of funds from the tax adopted by this chapter. The
members’ terms and qualifications, and duties and scope of the
committee, shall be as established by the resolution.

3.26.160 Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this chapter shall expire
on March 31, 2019.

SECTION 2.

Severability, if any portion of this ordinance is for any reason held
to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the remaining portions of this ordinance shall remain in effect. The
people of the City of Sacramento hereby declare that they would
have adopted each portion of this ordinance, notwithstanding that
any one of more portions of this ordinance is declared invalid or
unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this ordinance are
severable.

SECTION 3.

Majority Approval; Effective Date. This ordinance relates to the
levying and collecting of transactions and use taxes and shall take
effect immediately upon approval by a majority of the voters voting
on this ordinance and shall be operative on the date specified
above.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

Vote Yes on Measure U to restore and protect vital public safety
programs. Over the past few years, Sacramento has already cut
over $100 million. Without additional revenue we will be forced to
make even deeper cuts.

Vote Yes on U to restore 9-1-1 response times and bring them clos-
er to the national standards. Since 2008 Sacramento has cut over
$35 million from the police department and lost over 125 officers.
Today only 8% of home burglaries are investigated. Community
policing, narcotics units, gang units and traffic safety teams have
been cut or eliminated. Measure U will restore these critical servic-
es.

Vote Yes on U to ensure that all our fire engines are fully staffed
and operational seven days a week. Sacramento has continued to
grow and call volume has increased 220% since 1985.
Unfortunately, budget cuts have reduced our fire department
staffing to pre-1980 levels. Measure U will increase fire protection
and reduce response times.

Vote Yes on U to help keep our neighborhoods safe by restoring
gang prevention programs and after school programs that target
at-risk youth. Youth services have been cut, sport camps and youth
employment programs eliminated, U will help restore these pro-
grams and keep community centers open.

Park staff and services have been cut in half. Measure U wilt
restore community centers, senior centers, pools and libraries.
Measure U will help Sacramento maintain parks and keep facilities
clean. Measure U is a temporary tax that expires after six years
and requires independent audits to ensure that these funds are
spent as promised.

Vote Yes on Measure U to ensure that our local tax dollars stay in
our community.

Please join community leaders, small businesses, police officers,
firefighters and neighborhood groups and vote Yes on U to restore
key services and stabilize our city.

s/Rick Braziel, Sacramento Police Chief

s/Ray Jones, Sacramento Fire Chief

s/Araceli Mercado, Sacramento Parks Commissioner

s/Mark Abrahams, Community Activist / Land Park Resident

s/Randall Selland, Small Business Owner / Restaurateur

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U WAS FILED

