City of Half Moon Bay

Compiled by the City of Half Moon Bay City Clerk Ms. Siobhan Smith

Measure J

To provide funding only for the City of Half Moon Bay that can be used to enhance our Library, increase street maintenance, improve
senior services, invest in business development and tourism, improve Smith Field recreational facilities, help fund the new Main Street
bridge and improve other general city services, shall the City of Half Moon Bay pass a temporary half-cent general sales tax that will expire
after 3 years, with citizens’ oversight?_____________________________________________________________________________________

Full Text

ORDINANCE NO. C- 06-12

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF HALF MOON BAY ADDING CHAPTER 3.10 TO THE
HALF MOON BAY MUNICIPAL CODE
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION

Section 1.	The City Council of the City of Half Moon Bay

ordains as follows: that a new Chapter 3.10 shall be added to Title 3,
Revenue and Finance, subject to voter approval as set forth herein,
as follows:

“Chapter 3.10
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Sections:

3.10.010	Title.

3.10.020	Operative Date.

3.10.030	Purpose.

3.10.040	Contract with State.

3.10.050	Transactions Tax Rate.

3.10.060	Place of Sale.

3.10.070	Use Tax Rate.

3.10.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

3.10.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law	and

Collection of Use Taxes.

3.10.100	Permit Not Required.

3.10.110	Exemptions and Exclusions.

3.10.120	Amendment or Repeal.

3.10.130	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

3.10.140	Severability.

3.10.150	Use of Proceeds.

3.10.160	Fiscal Accountability Provisions.

3.10.010	TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the
City of Half Moon Bay Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.
The City of Half Moon Bay hereinafter shall be called “City.”
This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory
of the City.

3.10.020	OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

3.10.030	PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance
with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of
the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition

of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax
Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization
in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory
and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State
Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

3.10.040 CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative
date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation
of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City
has not contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case
the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

3.10.050 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of
selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of one half-percent (.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.10.060 PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance,
all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the State or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.10.070 USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative
date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one half-percent (.50%) of the sales price of

City of Half Moon Bay

Compiled by the City of Half Moon Bay City Clerk Ms. Siobhan Smith

the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

3.10.080 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar
as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

3.10.090 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW
AND COLLECTION OFUSE TAXES. In adopting the provisions
of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The	word	“State”	is	used	as a part of the title of

the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State
Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California;

2.	The	result	of	that	substitution	would	require	action

to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation
of this Ordinance.

3.	In	those	sections,	including,	but	not	necessarily

limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State
of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not otherwise
be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In	Sections	6701, 6702 (except in the last

sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in
the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.10.100 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

3.10.110 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions

tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed
by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county

pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use
tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount
of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City
which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract
of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With	respect	to	vehicles	(other than

commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating
that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With	respect	to	commercial	vehicles,

by registration to a place of business out-of-City and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller
is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which
the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this
ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of
tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased
by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common

City of Half Moon Bay

Compiled by the City of Half Moon Bay City Clerk Ms. Siobhan Smith

carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right
or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease
which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of
time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall
be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use
tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but
not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through
any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person
in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall
also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle,
vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may
credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject
to the use tax.

3.10.120 AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

B.	The City Council may amend this chapter without voter
approval only to make minor technical adjustments consistent with

the purposes set forth in this ordinance and applicable laws or as
necessary to comply with the law, so long as such amendments do
not increase the amount of tax imposed by this chapter.

3.10.130 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No

injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process
shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against
the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City,
to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

3.10.140 SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision
to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

3.10.150 USE OF PROCEEDS. The proceeds from the
transactions and use tax imposed by this ordinance shall be for
general governmental purposes of the City and shall be received
into the general fund of the City. Nothing herein shall bind the City
to use the proceeds for any specific purpose or function.

3.10.160 FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS. The

amount generated by this new general purpose revenue source and
how it was used shall be included in the annual audit of the City’s
financial operations by an independent certified public accountant.

3.10.170 AUTOMATIC REPEAL OF TAX. The transactions
and use tax adopted by this Chapter shall be automatically repealed
and shall be of no further force and effect after three years from the
operative date set forth at Section 3.10.020.”

Section 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the
levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and
shall take effect immediately, but it shall not become operative until
approved by a majority of the voters voting at the general municipal
election to be held November 6, 2012.

Section 3. PUBLICATION. The City Clerk shall cause this
Ordinance to be published in accordance with the requirements of
Section 36933 of the Government Code of the State of California.

INTRODUCED on the 19th day of June, 2012

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 17th day of July 2012 by the
following votes:

AYES: Kowalczyk, Muller, Patridge & Mayor Alifano

NOES: Fraser

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

/s/ Allan Alifano

Mayor

ATTEST:

/s/ Siobhan Smith

City Clerk

City of Half Moon Bay

Compiled by the City of Half Moon Bay City Clerk Ms. Siobhan Smith

Impartial Analysis of Measure J

The City Council of the City of Half Moon Bay has placed Measure
J on the November 6, 2012 ballot to ask the voters to approve
temporary one-half percent (0.50%) sales tax within the City. If
approved, the tax would add one-half cent to the price of an item
that costs a dollar, or fifty cents to the price of an item that costs one
hundred dollars.

Currently, the sales tax rate in Half Moon Bay is 8.25% of the
purchase price. The City, however, receives only l%of this 8.25%.
The remainder goes to the State of California (6.25%) and County
of San Mateo County (1%).

Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and
use tax” and “transactions and use tax,” which are levied on the sale
or use of tangible personal property sold at retail. Retailers collect
the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of
Equalization, which distributes the tax. This Measure, if approved
by the voters, would increase the tax rate on retail sales in Half
Moon Bay to 8.75%.

Because this Measure does not limit the use of tax revenue, it is a
“general tax,” not a “special tax” that restricts the funds to specific
purposes. Therefore, the City may use the funds for a range of
services including, but not limited to, repaving streets and fixing
potholes; maintaining public libraries and services; improving law
enforcement services; parks and recreation programs; and youth
afterschool and senior programs.

The ordinance will automatically expire and tax will no longer be in
effect 3 years after collection begins, unless extended by the voters
after another election. On the November 6, 2012 ballot, a ten year,
one-half percent (0.50%) sales tax measure is also proposed by the
County of San Mateo, and a four year, one quarter percent (0.25%)
sales tax increase is proposed by the State of California. If all three
measures are approved by the voters, the total sales tax in the City
of Half Moon Bay will increase to 9.5%.

This half page intentionally left blank

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the half-cent
tax for 3 years, with oversight by a committee of members of the
public. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax. This Measure would
be approved if it receives a simple majority of “Yes” votes (more
than 50%).

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure J. If you
desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the City Clerk’s office at
650- 726-8271 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
DATED: August 27, 2012

/s/ Anthony P. Condotti

City Attorney

City of Half Moon Bay

City of Half Moon Bay

Compiled by the City of Half Moon Bay City Clerk Ms. Siobhan Smith
Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument in Favor of Measure J	Rebuttal	to	Argument	in	Favor	of	Measure	J

Measure J is a proposed one half cent sales tax for 3 years that will
be used to support only Half Moon Bay. The suggested one half cent
sales tax, with a limited duration of 3 years, will primarily be used
for capital projects like replacing the seismically unsafe Main Street
Bridge, maintaining city streets which are badly in need of repair,
enhancing youth athletic facilities at Smith Field and supporting
business development. All spending related to Measure J revenues
will be conducted in budget sessions that are open to the public.

The City has already reduced costs significantly to stabilize
operating finances, but still has an estimated short fall for capital
improvements of approximately $1,000,000 annually. Examples of
cost savings initiatives that the City has successfully implemented
are:

•	Contracting with San Mateo County Sheriff’s
Department: $800,000/yearly savings

•	Contracting recreation services with City of San Carlos:
$190,000/yearly savings

•	Staff concessions and furloughs: $150,000 in savings

•	Miscellaneous budget saving measures: $200,000 in
savings

The need is critical. The City extended street repairs out seven
years, but considering the condition of our streets, seven years will
only perpetuate streets in their current poor condition. The City’s
contribution to replace the seismically unsafe Main Street Bridge is
estimated at approximately $600,000. And, the City needs funds to
survey our sewer system and replace sections before they fail.

Measure J is projected to generate approximately $870,000 per
year, of which a substantial portion will come from visitors to our
community. Measure J also has broad based support from across
the local business community.

The City will create an Independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee
and will publish annual financial audits.

Half Moon Bay is moving in a positive direction. Help us continue
our progress forward.

Please support our community and vote YES on Measure J.

/s/	Allan Alifano  Mayor-City of HMB	August 17, 2012
/s/	Rick Kowalczyk  Vice Mayor, City of Half Moon Bay	August 17, 2012
/s/	Jeanne L. Barber  Owner/Half Moon Bay Inn	August 17, 2012
/s/	Peter Welch  Owner/Arrowhead Framing	August 17, 2012
/s/	Mel Mello Jr  Officer I.D.E.S.	August 17, 2012

Half Moon Bay City Council and staff complain of a “shortfall
for capital improvements”. Yet, according to the 2012-13 budget,
the city’s projected 06-30-2013 General Fund balance is almost
$14,000,000 with almost $5,000,000 in cash. For all funds, the
city’s projected 06-30-2013 cash balance is over $17,000,000.
The City has a multi-million dollar operating surplus. And these
numbers are conservative. In 2010-11, General Fund revenue was
underestimated by over a million dollars.

Some “shortfall”

If all three sales tax measures on this ballot pass, the Half Moon Bay
sales tax rate will rocket to 9.5%.

Sales taxes are regressive, and hurt the poor!

In 1960, the sales tax rate was only 3%. Raising sales tax rates
sure didn’t fix California’s budget problems, and it isn’t the answer
for Half Moon Bay either. The Council and staff could spend this
sales tax money on anything they like - including low priority or
unneeded projects, as in the past.

California reduced its sales tax rate by one point on 07-01-2011.
After twelve months, the unemployment rate for the state, County,
and Half Moon Bay all fell by almost a full percentage point,
according to the Employment Development Department.

Lower sales taxes help foster lower unemployment!

Higher sales taxes cause higher unemployment and hurt local
businesses and local jobs.

The City of Half Moon Bay doesn’t need to burden the community
with this tax increase to provide services its citizens want and
deserve. In these hard times, we simply can’t afford to give the city
“play money”.

Vote No on Measure J

/s/	George Gipe  HMB resident	August 23, 2012
/s/	David R. Worden  Independent Business Owner	August 24, 2012
/s/	Freda Jeffs  HMB resident	August 23, 2012
/s/	Don Pettengill  Half Moon Bay Resident	August 25, 2012
/s/	Gayle Wainwright  HMB Home Owner	August 27, 2012

City of Half Moon Bay

Compiled by the City of Half Moon Bay City Clerk Ms. Siobhan Smith
Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument Against Measure J______Rebuttal	to	Argument	Against	Measure	J

The state, San Mateo County, and HMB all want to increase your
sales tax at the same time!

California’s high unemployment is no accident. A recent
nationwide study revealed that the probability that the sales tax
increases unemployment is extraordinarily high. The best estimate
is that California’s high sales tax accounts for 20% of the state’s
unemployment.

If this measure passes, all HMB residents will pay more when they
buy a new or used car - no matter where it’s purchased.

The City has $11.1 million in revenue to support current operations,
including two recently added positions. Tax revenues are on the
rise. With many departments now contracted out, the City is fully
staffed for operations.

The City Council claims it lacks funding for some capital projects.
However...

A close look at the City’s 2012-13 budget reveals that over $3.2
million of the general fund “expenditures” are one-time transfers
that don’t represent ongoing operations. And the City’s revenue
estimates are low.

The City definitely has a multi-million dollar structural operating
surplus!

The City receives millions annually in grants for roads and bridges
and receives gas tax funds. The operating surplus can also be used
for capital projects.

Due to the Beachwood judgment, the City has filed a claim for
$5,000,000 against an insurance company, which is in arbitration.
The City received the full $5,000,000 from a similar claim against
ABAG.

The City has millions in both restricted and unrestricted cash
reserves.

Before an election, the City Council talks about popular capital
projects, but look at their record. They recently spent $450,000 on a
redundant EOC facility that isn’t needed. We still don’t know how
it will be used.

We don’t need a new tax and we don’t need higher unemployment.
Vote NO on this tax increase!

/s/	George Gipe	August 13, 2012
	HMB resident	
/s/	David R. Worden	August 13, 2012
	HMB Resident & Business Owner	
/s/	Freda Jeffs	August 14, 2012
	HMB resident	
/s/	Joe Milner	August 14, 2012
	HMB Resident	
/s/	Andrea K. Hayes	August 15, 2012

Measure J is a proposed one-half cent sales tax for 3 years that will
be used to support only the needs of Half Moon Bay. The Argument
Against Measure J is simply incorrect. The funds generated by
Measure J are essential to Half Moon Bay.

FACT: Our operating budget is balanced, which allows us to
maintain the basic functions of the city and cover daily expenses.

FACT: Our capital budget is significantly under-funded, which
prevents us from performing much needed maintenance and special
projects. We are not able to effectively maintain city streets and
sewers or pay for projects like the replacement of the seismically
unsafe Main Street Bridge.

FACT: Our City has no hidden funds. We don’t have a “structural
surplus”. We do have a $3 million RESTRICTED RESERVE that
we are required to maintain by our bond holders. This money could
only be accessed in the case of an extreme emergency.

The Council is committed to providing conservative and responsible
financial direction for our City. This has been demonstrated with
the financial decisions that have resulted in a balanced operating
budget.

•	Our short term financial goal is to provide funding for our
most critical capital projects through Measure J.

•	Our long term financial goal is to pay off our bonds and
remove our $1.2 million/year payment.

When our community is voting this November, we need to focus on
the critical needs of our City. Only Half Moon Bay can help Half
Moon Bay.

Please support our community and vote YES on Measure J.

/s/	Allan Alifano  Mayor - City of Half Moon Bay	August 23, 2012
/s/	Rick Kowalczyk  Vice Mayor - City of Half Moon Bay	August 27, 2012
/s/	Charles Nelson  Business Owner	August 23, 2012
/s/	Betsy del Fierro  Owner, It’s Italia	August 23, 2012
/s/	Kim Levin	August 23, 2012