277

/

I.	'■ .

/	'

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General Election

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet
On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

i

www.lavote.net

COUNTY MEASURES

B Shall an ordinance be adopted requiring producers of adult films to obtain
a County public health permit, to require adult film performers to use
condoms while engaged in sex acts, to provide proof of blood borne
pathogen training course, to post permit and notices to performers, and making
violations of the ordinance subject to civil fines and criminal charges?

132

133

YES-»Q

N0-*O

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

J Accelerating Traftic Relief, Job Creation. To advance Los Angeles
County’s traffic relief, economic/job growth by accelerating light rail/
subway construction and airport connections, within five years, not
twenty; funding countywide freeway, bridge, safety and traffic flow
improvements; fixing potholes; keeping senior, student, disabled fares low; Shall Los Angeles County's
voter-approved one-half cent traffic relief sales tax continue without increase for another 30 years or until

136

YES«*0

137

N0-*O

voters decide to end it,	with independent audits and keeping funds local?	
	SCHOOL  CERRITOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT	
Governing Board	TINA CHO	142 ■*
Member,	Governing Board Member	
Trustee	SANDFtA SALAZAR	143
Area No. 6 Vote for One	Community Clinic Doctor	
		

CERRITOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

146

147

G CERRITOS COLLEGE JOB TRAINING AND COLLEGE TRANSFER
MEASURE. To prepare local Cerritos College students for high-skilled jobs
and 4-year universities by updating classrooms, technology, math,

science and computer labs, upgrading job-training facilities, providing classrooms______________________________________

and labs to accommodate growing demand, replacing leaky roofs, aging and unsafe buildings, facilities/
equipment, and acquiring, constructing, repairing buildings, classrooms, sites/facilities/equipment, shall
Cerritos Community College District issue $350,000,000 in bonds, at legal rates, with citizen oversight, and
no money for Sacramento, administrators' salaries or employee pensions?

YES^O

NO-*C

CITY

ARTESIA CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

152

YES^O

MTq provide the City of Artesia with additional revenue to maintain services
such as neighborhood police patrols/911 response, gang prevention,
pothole/street repairs with funds that require independent audits and that	„

cannot be taken by the state, shall the Artesia Local Services Ordinance be IW
adopted to update/increase its existing business license tax rate schedules based on type/size of business,
with no rate increase tor small businesses with gross annual receipts of less than $150,000?

END OF BALLOT

06-033E

N LA 277-011

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

(BUSINESS LICENSE TAXES)

Measure M will approve the “Artesia Local Services Ordinance” which is an
update to the City of Artesia’s existing business license tax ordinance (“BLT
Ordinance”). It will increase the business license tax that is paid to the City for
some service, retail, wholesale, professional, contracting and manufacturing
businesses. Additionally, this Measure will remove obsolete business categories,
add new categories, and establish a first-time application investigation and
inspection fee. All small businesses (those having gross annual receipts of less
than $150,000) will be exempt from any tax increase or payment of the
investigation or inspection fee, except a few that are subject to the payment of a
flat fee regardless of their financial size.

Service, retail, wholesale, professional and local contracting businesses currently
pay a business license tax based on their annual gross receipts. This Measure will
increase the tax rate for such businesses having annual gross receipts of $150,000
or more. For example, a service business having annual gross receipts between
$200,000 and $249,000 will pay $350 in business license tax, which is $110 more
than is paid under the existing BLT Ordinance.

Manufacturing businesses currently pay a business license tax based on their
number of employees. If this Measure is approved, those businesses will pay the
tax based on their gross annual receipts, truck trips, or building floor area,
whichever factor produces the greater tax amount. Small manufacturing
businesses having less than 10 employees and less than $150,000 in gross annual
receipts will not pay an increased tax. Certain types of businesses and
occupations pay a “flat rate” tax. The tax amount for some of those businesses
will increase.

This Measure will also: (1) require an independent annual audit of the City’s use
of the tax revenues; (2) establish a five-member City Council appointed Citizens
Oversight Committee to review the City’s use of the tax revenue; (3) authorize
the City Council to reduce the tax rates; and (4) allow the City Council to
increase the tax rates based on Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) changes in the
future. This Measure will not permit the City Council to raise the tax rates
beyond a CPI change without additional voter approval.

Revenue generated by the business license tax will continue to be deposited into
the City’s General Fund, which means that revenue may be used for general City
governmental purposes, such as police, gang prevention, street repairs and other
services. If this Measure is adopted, the tax increase will take effect January 1,
2013, and is estimated to raise approximately $300,000 in additional business
license tax revenue per fiscal year.

PR-905399-1

N LA 277-051

(Continued on next page)

CITY ATTORNEY S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M (Continued)

A “Yes” vote on Measure M is a vote to approve the Artesia Local Services
Ordinance and increase business license taxes on some businesses. A “No” vote
on Measure M is a vote to maintain the BLT Ordinance as it now exists. This
Measure will be adopted if it is approved by a majority of the voters voting on
this Measure.

KEVIN G. ENNIS
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure M. If you desire a copy
of the “Artesia Local Services Ordinance” that would be approved by Measure M,
please call Gloria Considine, the City’s Elections Official’s Office at (562) 865-6262,
and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PR-905399-2

N LA 277-052

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

Tired of having Sacramento take your money? So are we! Now we can do
something about it by voting YES on M! All Measure M money helps prevent
severe budget cuts, is legally required to be spent on our local community
services, and Sacramento politicians can’t touch it!

YES on M maintains public safety and police services: 9-1-1 rapid response times,
day/evening neighborhood police patrols, and crime/gang prevention programs.
Artesia’s police officer staffing levels are already at the minimum recommended
for a city our size. We must ensure our community stays safe!

YES on M also maintains Artesia’s streets and roads, and repairs our potholes.
Without Measure M, our streets, sidewalks and public facilities will start to
deteriorate and fall into disrepair. Measure M also maintains our anti-blight,
street lighting and street sweeping, park maintenance, and emergency

preparedness programs.

YES on M reforms a decades-old, outdated business tax structure which is
currently unfair. Yes on M protects and supports our small businesses, who will
have NO tax rate increase, while ensuring big corporations pay their fair share.

YES on M includes stringent fiscal accountability protections, requiring
Independent Citizens Oversight, mandatory financial audits, and yearly reports
to the community - ensuring that all funds are spent as promised to you, the
taxpayer. Measure M requires that every penny be used for Artesia services
only - again, no money can be seized by Sacramento.

Sacramento has already taken more than $1.5 million from Artesia to deal with
its own budget deficit mess. Measure M provides Artesia with a reliable source of
locally-controlled revenue to prevent severe cuts to the community services we

all rely on.

Join police officers, civic and local business leaders in voting YES on M — giving
Artesia local control over local funds for our local needs.

JENNIFER HO
Local Business Owner

DARSHAN SINGH
Local Business Owner

GREG KNAPP

L.A. Co. Sheriff

BETTY LOU ORMONDE
Neighborhood Watch

MANU PATEL

Artesia Chamber of Commerce President

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-905399-3

N LA 277-053