193

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General Election

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet

On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

CITY

POMONA CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

, , MEASURE U POMONA CITY CHARTER MEASURE: Shall the Charter of II the City of Pomona be amended as proposed by the Charter Review ^ Commission, regarding setting Council district boundaries, Mayoral election as a stand alone election, “instant runoff” Councilmember elections, Council vacancy procedures, increasing contributions limits to Councilmembers, counsel for Charter Commission, City budget and Capital Improvement Program app to the Youth and Family Master Plan, and establishing violations of the Charter at other changes?	158	YES^O  159	no^O  jroviding staff and legal ropriations, commitment misdemeanors, among
. . MEASURE V POMONA TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX INCREASE: To  y ensure funding for essential general city services including police services, " fire protection, street and park maintenance, business development, and park and recreation services, shall an ordinance be adopted to increase the tax charged only to persons who occupy hotels, as defined by Pomona City Code S known as the Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT), from ten percent (10%) to twelve p	162	YES-*0  163	mo-*o  ection 50-Bl, otherwise srcent (12%)?
... MEASURE W POMONA REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX INCREASE: To  yll ensure funding for essential general city services including police services, ** fire protection, street and park maintenance, business development, and park and recreation services, shall an ordinance be adopted to increase the tax charged when real property in the city is sold or transferred, otherwise known as th Tax, from $1.10 per $500 of property value at the time of sale to $2.20?	165	yes-*o  166	no-*o  e Heal Property transfer
v MEASURE X SAVE OUR POMONA PUBLIC LIBRARY: To provide revenue  Y dedicated to the City of Pomona Library services, and operation of the ** Library no fewer than 38 hours per week, shall the City of Pomona ordinance adopting a special parcel tax of $38.00/parcel and/or residential unit, providing for annual adjustments commencing July 1, 2013, be approved by the vc	168	YES-*o  169	no-HD  ters?

END OF BALLOT

07-007E

N LA 193-012

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE V

Transient Occupancy Tax-Amendment to PCC section 50-82

The City of Pomona currently imposes a Transient Occupancy Tax, commonly
known as a “Hotel Tax” or “TOT,” in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the
rent charged by the hotel operator. The tax is only imposed on each “transient”
or hotel guest who stays at hotels within the city limits of Pomona. (Pomona City
Code § 50-82). The tax revenues are collected by the hotels from their guests and
then paid to the City.

The TOT was established by the City in 1965, and the current rate of ten percent
(10%) has remained unchanged for the last 18 years (since 1994). The tax is not
paid by property owners within the City. The TOT is only paid by hotel
customers.

If adopted, Measure “V” will amend section 50-82 of the Pomona City Code to
increase the TOT rate to twelve percent (12%) of the rent charged by the
operator. If adopted by the voters, it is estimated that the increase will result in
an additional $288,000.00 in general funds annually, although the actual results
may vary depending on the health of the economy. All additional revenue
received from the TOT will be deposited into the City’s general fund, to be
expended on general fund purposes, such as police services, fire protection,
street maintenance, business development and park and recreation services. If
adopted, the TOT rate of twelve percent (12%) would take effect upon the
earliest date legally possible after the City Clerk certifies the votes.

A “Yes” vote on Measure “V” supports the increase of the TOT rate from ten
percent (10%) to twelve percent (12%) of the rent charged by the hotel operator.
A “No” vote on Measure “V” will maintain the current TOT rate.

ARNOLD M. ALVAREZ-GLASMAN
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “V.” If you desire a
copy of the measure, please call the City of Pomona City Clerk’s Office at
(909) 620-2341 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

PR-905106-1

N LA 193-057

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V

Dear Pomona residents,

As sales and property taxes have dropped, so has the City’s revenue. The present
economic situation has forced the City of Pomona to take drastic measures to
ensure the most basic services for its residents. Personnel in all departments
along with services have been reduced. Some services have been outsourced.
Many of our employees are carrying double loads.

In order to maintain and enhance the services that our citizens need and deserve,
you are being asked to approve Measure V. Approval of this measure will
increase the existing hotel tax from 10% to 12%.

Approval of Measure V will not cost Pomona property owners a single penny! It

will only affect persons who occupy hotels in the city. The additional revenue will
alleviate the city’s financial stress, and ensure funding for essential city services.

A YES vote will help the City of Pomona to continue to provide its citizens with
the services they are accustomed to receiving on a daily basis.

Please vote Yes on Measure V.

CRISTINA CARRIZOSA
Council Member

DANIELLE SOTO

Council Member

PAULA LANTZ
Council Member

GINNA E. ESCOBAR
Council Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-905106-2

N LA 193-058