BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

Official Use Only; Date Stamp

RECEIVED

Alameda County

JUL 03 2012

Reg, of Voters

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
Jurisdiction Name: Qjjy of Berke|ey	Election D,t«Nov g 2Q^

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.
Insert ballot question text here:

Shall a special tax of $0.00779 per square foot of improvements on land in
Berkeley be authorized to fund maintenance and operation of the replacement
Warm Water and Willard Pools, if a bond measure funding construction of
those pools is adopted?

Financial Implications:

The annual cost in fiscal year 2013-14 would be $14.80 for a 1,900 square foot
home, $23.37 for a 3,000 square foot home and $77.90 for a 10,000 square
foot building.

PERCENTAGE /NEEDEDTOPASS

two-thirds (2/3)

/FUt&TEXT'0ETlOm#

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

[71 YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)

□ no

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)

CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)

Phone #:

Phone #:

510-981-6900

E-Mail:

E-MaiyVVebsite:

www.cityofberkeley.info/clerk

City Attorney’s Impartial Analysis

The proposed measure would impose a special tax totaling approximately
$604,000 per year to fund operation and maintenance of two proposed public
swimming pools: a warm water pool to be constructed at the Berkeley Unified
School District’s West Campus on University Avenue and a pool at Willard
School to replace the previously existing pool there.

For purposes of this tax, “operation and maintenance” would recreation program
services consisting of the administration and operation of the City’s aquatics
program, and maintenance and repair of the pools and their associated facilities,
which include but are not limited to locker rooms, utility buildings, pumps, filters
and piping.

This measure would take effect only if a bond measure on the November 6,
2012, ballot is approved to construct both pools and make improvements to
associated facilities such as locker rooms, and repair, renovate or replace the
locker rooms at King Pool, and the City is able to enter into a lease with the
Berkeley Unified School District for facilities on which bond funds are spent,
which conforms to specified terms. The tax could not be collected without a lease
for the facilities.

Proceeds of the tax could not be spent at King Pool.

Financial Implications

The proposed City special tax rate would limit the annual cost for an average
1,900 square foot home to $14.80 in fiscal year 2013-14. It is estimated that the
tax will cost residential and other taxpayers no more than the following average
amounts during FY 2013-14:

Square Feet	Annual	Tax

1,200

1,500

1,900

3,000

10,000

$9.35

$11.69

$14.80

$23.37

$77.90

s/ ZACH COWAN
Berkeley City Attorney

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

ORDINANCE NO. -N.S.

AUTHORIZING SPECIAL TAX TO FUND OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE
REPLACEMENT WARM WATER AND WILLARD POOLS

BE IT ORDAINED by the by the people of the City of Berkeley as follows:

Section 1. Findings and purpose.

A.	On November 17, 2009, the Berkeley City Council adopted the Pools Master
Plan, and on June 26, 2012, proposed a general obligation bond to fund replacement of
the Warm Water Pool and Willard Pool.

B.	It is necessary to have an assured source of funds for maintenance and
operation of those pools or they would be at risk of closure or reduction in hours and
programs in the future.

C.	Construction of these replacement pools will serve the public interest of the
residents of Berkeley by providing both recreational and therapeutic pools, thereby
providing opportunities for improved health and fitness of Berkeley residents.

Section 2. Special tax.

A.	The tax imposed under this Chapter is solely for the purpose of raising
revenue to pay for operation and maintenance of the replacement Warm Water Willard
Pools. “Operation and maintenance” includes recreation program services consisting of
the administration and operation of the City’s aquatics program, and maintenance and
repair of the pools and their associated facilities, which include but are not limited to
locker rooms, utility buildings, pumps, filters and piping.

B.	Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution (Proposition 13) allows
two-thirds of the qualified electors of the City to impose a special tax within the City,
provided the special tax is not an ad valorem tax on real property or a transaction tax or
a sales tax on the sale of real property within the City. The tax imposed by this Chapter
is a special tax that is authorized for elector approval by Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the
California Constitution.

Section 3. Tax authorized-Tax rate-indexing.

A.	There is imposed a special tax of $0.00779 per square foot on all improvements
in the City, for the purpose set forth in Section 2.A above.

B.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall be operative on July 1, 2013, subject to
Section 12.

C.	The City Council of Berkeley is authorized to increase the tax rate authorized by
this Chapter annually in May by up to the greater of the cost of living in the immediate
San Francisco Bay Area, per capita personal income growth in the state (each as
verified by official United States Bureau of Labor statistics), or 5%. If either index
referred to above is discontinued, the City shall use any successor index specified by
the applicable agency, or if there is none, the most similar existing index then in
existence.

Section 4. Definitions.

For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set forth below:

A.	“Building” means any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls
and designed for the shelter or housing of any person, chattel or property of any kind.
The word “building” includes the word “structure.”

B.	“Improvements” means all buildings or structures erected or affixed to the land.

C.	“Parcel” means a unit of real estate in one ownership as shown on the most
current official assessment role of the Alameda County Assessor.

D.	“Square footage” means the total gross horizontal areas of all floors, including
usable basement and cellars, below the roof and within the outer surface of the main
walls of buildings (or the center lines of party walls separating such buildings or portions
thereof) or within lines drawn parallel to and two feet within the roof line of any building
or portion thereof without walls (which includes, notwithstanding subsection 3 of this
definition, the square footage of all porches), and including pedestrian access walkways
or corridors, but excluding the following:

1.	Areas used for off-street parking spaces or loading berths and driveways and
maneuvering aisles relating thereto.

2.	Areas which are outdoor or semi-outdoor areas included as part of the building to
provide a pleasant and healthful environment for the occupants thereof and the
neighborhood in which the building is located. This exempted area is limited to stoops,
balconies and to natural ground areas, terraces, pools and patios which are landscaped
and developed for active or passive recreational use, and which are accessible for use
by occupants of the building.

3.	Arcades, porticoes, and similar open areas which are located at or near street
level, which are accessible to the general public, and which are not designed or used as
sales, display, storage, service or production areas.

E.	“Structure” means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the ground.

Section 5. Authority of the City Manager.

It shall be the duty of the City Manager's staff to collect and receive all taxes imposed by
this Chapter, and to keep an accurate record thereof. The City Manager is charged with
the enforcement of this Chapter, except as otherwise provided herein, and may
prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations relating to the administration and
enforcement of this Chapter, including provisions for the re-examination and correction
of returns and payments. The City Manager may prescribe the extent to which any
ruling or regulation shall be applied without retroactive effect.

Section 6. Interest and penalties.

A. The City Council is authorized to have the taxes imposed by this Chapter
collected by the county of Alameda in conjunction with the county’s collection of
property tax revenues for the City. In the event that the county of Alameda collects the
taxes imposed by this Chapter, the imposition of penalties, additional fees and interest
upon persons who fail to remit any tax imposed by this Chapter, or who fail to remit any
delinquent remittance under this Chapter, shall be subject to and governed by the rules,
regulations and procedures utilized by the county in its collection of property taxes for
the City, and in its collection of this additional tax for the City.

B.	Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this
Chapter shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

Section 7. Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than once or
has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under this Chapter, it
may be refunded as provided in Chapter 7.20 of the Berkeley Municipal Code.

Section 8. Collection.

The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person owing money under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for
the recovery of such amount.

Section 9. Severability clause.

The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any person, association, corporation or
to any property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the City Council to
impose the tax herein provided. If any sentence, clause, section or part of this Chapter,
or any tax against any individual or any of the several groups specified herein is found
to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity
shall affect only such clause, sentence, section or part of this Chapter and shall not
affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this Chapter. It is declared to be the intention of the City Council of the City of

Berkeley that this Chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal
or invalid sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.

Section 10. Violation-Penalty.

Failure to perform any duty or obligation imposed by this Chapter is a misdemeanor
punishable as set forth in Chapter 1.20 of this code, but may be charged, in the
discretion of the citing officer, as an infraction.

Section 11. Increase appropriations limit.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriation limit for the City is
increased by the aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this special tax for each of
the four fiscal years from 2013-14 through 2016-17.

Section 12. Effectiveness.

A.	This Chapter shall take effect only if the voters also approve the general
obligation bond measure on the November 6, 2012, ballot to construct a new Warm
Water Pool and a new Willard Pool and make improvements to their associated
facilities, and to renovate the locker rooms at King Pool, and that measure becomes
effective.

B.	No tax may be collected under this Chapter for any period during which the City
does not have a lease for the facilities upon which tax proceeds would be spent, which
conforms to the conditions set forth in the general obligation bond measure on the
November6, 2012, ballot.