Sample Ballot

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN BALLOT
Lake County

November 6, 2012

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

STATE

TAX TO FUND EDUCATION AND EARLY
■so CHILDHOOD PROGRAMS INITIATIVE STAT-
00 UTE. Increases taxes on earnings using sliding
scale, lor twelve years Revenues go to
K-12 schools and earty childhood programs, and for lour
years to repaying state debt Fiscal Impact Increased state
tax revenues for 12 years—roughly $10 Nlion annually in ini-
tial years, tending to grow over time. Funds used lor schools,
child care, and preschool, as well as providing savings on
state debt payments.

39

TAX TREATMENT FOR MULTISTATE BUSI-
NESSES. CLEAN ENERGY AND ENERGY
EFFICIENCY FUNDING. INITIATIVE STAT- No

UTE. Requires multistate businesses to pay L.____

income taxes based on percentage of thee sales in Califor-
nia Dedicates revenues for five years to dean/efficienl en-1
ergy projects Fiscal Impact: Increased state revenues of $1
billion annually, with half of the revenues over the next five
years spent on energy efficiency projects. Of the remaining
revenues, a significant portion likely would be spent on
schools.

REDISTRICTING. STATE SENATE DIS-
i(l TRICTS. REFERENDUM. A -Yes' vote ap-
proves, and a W vote rejects, new State Sen-
ate districts drawn by the Citizens Redis-
tricting Commission If rejected, districts will be adjusted by
officials supervised by the California Supreme Court. Fiscal
Impact: Approving the referendum would have no fiscal im-
pact on the state and local governments Rejecting the refer-
endum would result in a one-time cost of about $1 mHhon to
the state and counties

COUNTY

Shad Article VI be added to Chapter IS of the Yes
p Lake County Code imposing a one-half of one
c percent (0.50%) transaction and use tax (sates
tax) to implement invasive speciesAveed and
algae control/water quality programs for the County of Lake I
for a maximum period of tan (ID) years that cannot be taken
by the State, wtti all revenues dedicated exclusively to these |
programs and establishing an expenditure plan with <
oversight for revenues generated’

i citizen I

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

CITY

Shad the City of Clearfake impose a retail trans-
q actions and use tax at the rate of one percent

Yes

(1%) within the City to be used for repair and n0

maintenance of City streets and roads and _________

other transportation services and code enforcement, and
shall the appropriations limit for the City of Cleartake far road-
way repair and maintenance and code enforcement be in-
creased for Fscal Year 2012-2013 by the amount of the tax
proceeds received by the City during that period.

17-COl 7-NON TURN CARO OVER

17-C014-NON TURN CARD OVER

Sample Ballot

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

. (whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF CLEARLAKE
MEASURE"G"

"Shall the City of Clearlake impose a retail transactions

Gand use tax at the rate of one percent (1%) within the City
to be used for repair and maintenance of City streets and
roads and other transportation services and code
enforcement, and shall the appropriations limit for the City of
Clearlake for roadway repair and maintenance and code
enforcement be increased for Fiscal Year 2012-2013 by the
amount of the tax proceeds received by the City during that
period.

Yes_____ No____________"

CITY OF CLEARLAKE
ORDINANCE NO. 157-2012

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF CLEARLAKE ADDING CHAPTER 3-7 TO THE
CLEARLAKE MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO
A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR STREET AND ROAD
MAINTENANCE AND CODE ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

FINDINGS:

A.	The transportation system in the City of Clearlake is rapidly deteriorat-
ing and in immediate need of maintenance throughout the City. Mainte-
nance and repair of existing roadways cannot be accomplished with
available funds, which are already stretched beyond their availability.

B.	Without additional funds, the road and street system will crumble into
permanent disrepair. Existing revenues are inadequate and competition
for funds is increasing. Local governments must either generate revenues
to maintain our investments or watch the system collapse and endanger
the health, welfare and safety of Clearlake residents.

C.	The City, due to severe budgetary constraints eliminated code enforce-
ment funding beginning with Fiscal Year 2010-11 and laid off employees
that had been dedicated to that function. As a result of elimination of code
enforcement, the city has seen a dramatic decline in upkeep of properties
resulting in increased complaints about health and safety issues on prop-
erties including buildings that are not fit for habitation, fire hazards, vermin,
stench, lack of sanitary facilities, illegal construction in rights-of-way, in-
creased feral animal population, abandoned and inoperative vehicles and
other conditions that effect the public health, safety and welfare, as well as
the enjoyment, use and value of private property.

D.	Approval of a one percent transactions and use tax for street and road
maintenance and code enforcement to supplement traditional revenues
used for these purposes will benefit the City's road system and will im-
prove the City's ability to maintain and increase its code enforcement ef-
forts. The transactions and use tax set forth in this Ordinance will be used
solely for maintenance of existing roadways, streets, bridges and bicycle
and pedestrian facilities in the City and to maintain and increase the City’s
code enforcement efforts, and is intended to supplement other revenues
that will continue to be used for these same purposes.

E.	A transactions and use tax for road maintenance and code enforcement
requires a vote of the residents of the City, and two-thirds (2/3) of those
voting on the tax must approve the tax in order for it to be implemented. In
addition, this Ordinance, along with the Road Maintenance and Code En-
forcement Transactions and Use Tax Expenditure Plan (“Expenditure
Plan”) for use of the proceeds of the tax, which is attached to this Ordi-
nance as Exhibit A, must be approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the City Coun-
cil.

F.	The City of Clearlake will continue to seek maximum funding for street
and road improvements and code enforcement through State and Federal
programs. The revenues currently used for street and road maintenance
and code enforcement will continue to be used for street and road mainte-
nance and code enforcement.

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEARLAKE DOES HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Amendment. Chapter 3-7 entitled “City of Clearlake Road
Maintenance and Code Enforcement Transactions and Use Tax” is added
to the City of Clearlake Municipal Code to read as follows:

“3-7.1 Short Title. This Ordinance shall be known as the “City of
Clearlake Road Maintenance and Code Enforcement Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance.” This Ordinance shall be applicable in the incorpo-
rated territory of the City of Clearlake.

3-7.2 Operative Date. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first cal-
endar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the Effective Date as
set forth in Section 4 of this Ordinance.

3-7.3 Purpose. This Ordinance is adopted for the following purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:

a.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provi-
sions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Rev-
enue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2,
which authorizes the City to adopt this Ordinance. This Ordinance shall be
operative if two-thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

b.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the require-
ments and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

c.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected
by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and
Use Taxes.

d.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be admin-
istered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, thereby minimizing the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this Ordinance.

17G1

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

3-7.4 Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, the City shall con-
tract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incidental
to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordi-
nance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State
Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the
first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract. The City
Council may make any technical amendments to this chapter required by
the State Board of Equalization, except for any changes affecting the tax
rate, tax methodology, tax expenditure or its manner of collection.

3-7.5 Imposition of Transactions Tax; Transactions Tax Rate. For the

privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a transactions tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at
the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and

after the operative date of this Ordinance.

3-7.6 Place of Sale. For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are con-
summated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be pre-
scribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3-7.7 Imposition of Use Tax; Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby im-
posed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible per-
sonal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date
of this Ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of one percent (1 %) of the sales price of the property subject to the
tax. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

3-7.8 Adoption of Provisions of State Law by Reference. Except as
otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are incon-
sistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Tax-
ation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted by
this reference and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth
herein.

3-7.9 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use
Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

a.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions inci-
dent to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections refer-
ring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of

the substitution would be to:

(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, stor-
age, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions
of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other con-
sumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

b.	The word “City" shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the defi-
nition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3-7.10 Permit Not Required. If a seller's permit has been issued to a re-
tailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an addi-
tional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

3-7.11 Exemptions and Exclusions.

a.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

b.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum prod-
ucts, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the author-
ity of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point
by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for ship-
ment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, de-
livery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Di-
vision 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code
by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under pen-
alty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his
or her principal place of residence; and

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of busi-
ness out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

17G2

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

c.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal prop-
erty:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a trans-
actions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordi-
nance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity is-
sued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordi-
nance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangi-
ble personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase
of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative
date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obli-
gated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business
in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tan-
gible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property
into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the prop-
erty, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either di-
rectly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or per-
son in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, air-
craft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commenc-
ing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required
to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle,
vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

d.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to
a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part

1.6	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

3-7.12 Use of Proceeds. Proceeds of the City of Clearlake Road Mainte-
nance and Code Enforcement Transactions and Use Tax shall be depos-
ited in a special fund separate from the General Fund and may only be
used for maintenance and repair of streets, roads, bridges, and bicycle
and pedestrian facilities, for purchase of equipment and other directly re-
lated expenditures or for code enforcement pursuant to the City of
Clearlake Road Maintenance and Code Enforcement Transactions and
Use Tax Expenditure Plan, which is attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit
A and incorporated herein by reference, and for administration and legal
actions related thereto.

3-7.13 Maintenance of Effort. The City, by the enactment of this Ordi-
nance, intends the additional funds provided by this Transactions and Use
Tax will supplement existing local revenues being used for transportation
and code enforcement purposes. The City shall maintain their existing
commitment of local funds for street maintenance and code enforcement
purposes pursuant to this Ordinance.

3-7.14 Collection and Allocation of Funds. The City shall administer the
City of Clearlake Road Maintenance and Code Enforcement Transactions
and Use Tax Expenditure Plan consistent with the authority cited herein,
and shall allocate proceeds of the Road Maintenance and Code Enforce-
ment Transactions and Use Tax solely for those purposes.

3-7.15 Administrative Costs. The City shall expend only that amount of
the funds generated from the Transactions and Use Tax for audit, adminis-
trative expenses, and other services that are necessary and reasonable to
carry out its responsibilities.

3-7.16 Adoption of Amendments to State Law. All amendments subse-
quent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of
this Ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate
so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

3-7.17 Enjoining Collection Prohibited. No injunction or writ of mandate
or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or pro-
ceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of
the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordi-
nance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any
tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.”

Section 2. Expenditure Plan and Amendments Thereto. The City of
Clearlake Road Maintenance and Code Enforcement Transactions and
Use Tax Expenditure Plan (“Expenditure Plan”), attached to this Ordi-
nance as Exhibit A and incorporated into this Ordinance by this reference,
is hereby adopted by the City Council. The City shall only expend the reve-
nues generated by the transactions and use tax approved by the adoption
of this Ordinance in accordance with the Expenditure Plan. The Expendi-
ture Plan may be amended through an ordinance duly adopted by the City
Council following a noticed public hearing. The City may annually review
and amend the Expenditure Plan pursuant to this section, to provide for
the use of additional federal, state and local funds, to account for unex-

VOTER'S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

pected revenues, or to take into consideration unforeseen circumstances.
The City shall undertake any and all applicable environmental review re-
quired prior to undertaking any specific project pursuant to the Expendi-
ture Plan.

Section 3. Publication. The City Clerk shall cause this Ordinance to be
published in accordance with the requirements of Section 36933 of the
California Government Code.

Section 4. Severability. If any section, subsection, clause, sentence,
work or phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid and/or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the remaining portions of the Ordinance. The City Council de-
clares that it would have passed and adopted this Ordinance and each of
the provisions thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more such
provisions be declared invalid and/or unconstitutional.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance relates to the levying and col-
lecting of transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately
upon its adoption by the City Council, but shall not become operative until
approved by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on the issue at the
November 6,2012 General Election. If approved by at least 2/3 of the vot-
ers, the City of Clearlake transactions and use tax shall become operative
on the operative date as defined in Section 1 of this Ordinance.

Section 7. California Environmental Quality Act. The City Council finds
that the adoption of this Ordinance and the City of Clearlake Road Mainte-
nance and Code Enforcement Transactions and Use Tax Expenditure
Plan (“Expenditure Plan”) adopted as part of this Ordinance, which pro-
vides for the repair and maintenance of streets and roads and code en-
forcement in the City of Clearlake, does not qualify as a “project” under the
California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) pursuant to California
Code of Regulations Title 14, Chapter 3, Section 15378(b)(4), which pro-
vides that a project for purposes of CEQA does not include “[tjhe creation
of government funding mechanisms or other government fiscal activities,
which do not involve any commitment to any specific project which may re-
sult in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment.” Here,
the adoption of this Ordinance and the Expenditure Plan falls within the
funding mechanism exclusion because it does not constitute a binding
commitment to construct the projects set forth in the Expenditure Plan.
Further, as ordained in Section 2 of this Ordinance, the City shall under-
take any and all applicable environmental review required prior to under-
taking any specific project pursuant to the Expenditure Plan.

INTRODUCED by the City Council of the City of Clearlake at a regular
meeting of the City Council held on the 26th day of July, 2012 and
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council at a regular meeting of the
City Council on the 9th day of August, 2012 by the following vote:

AYES: Mayor Luiz, Vice Mayor Spittler, Council Members Overton and
Giambruno

NOES: None

ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: Council Member Thein

s/Joey Luiz
Mayor

ATTEST:

s/Melissa Swanson
City Clerk

EXHIBIT A

ROAD MAINTENANCE AND CODE ENFORCEMENT
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX EXPENDITURE PLAN

CITY OF CLEARLAKE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND CODE
ENFORCEMENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
EXPENDITURE PLAN
FOR

ANTICIPATED ONE (1%) PERCENT
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX REVENUE

The one (1%) percent transactions and use tax passed by the City of Cleariake vot-
ers will be dedicated to specific uses—road maintenance and code enforcement.
The funds cannot and will not be used for any other purpose. Seventy-five percent
(75%) of the revenues generated by the new tax will be allocated to road mainte-
nance with the remaining twenty-five percent (25%) allocated to code enforce-
ment.

ROAD MAINTENANCE

The City of Clearlake’s maintained Street system consists of approxi-
mately 112 miles of streets and is composed of:

Asphalt Paved Streets	63	Miles

Unpaved Gravel or Dirt Streets	49	Miles

The majority of the Street system was constructed to the standards and
conditions of the 1930’s and 1940’s era and is unable to meet today’s traf-
fic demands. A pavement management study was recently completed for
the City of Clearlake’s Streets System. The report, which was prepared by
Nichols Consulting Engineers, cited that Clearlake’s streets have one of
the lowest pavement condition rating of any city that they had evaluated.
The average pavement condition rating for the City’s streets was 38 on a
100-point scale. That is well below an F grade, which we all understand is
unacceptable.

The report further indicates that the City currently has a total deferred
maintenance need of $17,000,000. What that means is the City needs to
spend $17,000,000 in 2012, for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of its
streets system, to bring it up to acceptable standards. The City is currently
expending approximately $40,000 annually for repair and maintenance of
its streets. At that funding level, the City can only patch the chuckholes and
re-grade the gravel roads. Current funding does not allow for any major
street repair or reconstruction. If the City's maintenance level remains the
same, the pavement condition rating of 38, which is very poor, will drop
even lower in the future. Under that scenario most of the City’s paved
streets will have totally failed, and require their total reconstruction.

The Nichols Consulting Engineers Pavement Management Study recom-
mends that if the City of Clearlake budgets $1,050,000 annually over the
next five (5) years for asphalt pavement work, it would improve the City’s
overall pavement condition rating (PCI) from 38 up to 60. The City's de-
ferred maintenance backlog would be reduced from $17,000,000 to
$12,300,00. In addition to the need to improve the asphalt surfacing of the
City’s streets, there is also a need to maintain and improve storm drain-
age, and sidewalks that are an integral part of the street.

17G4

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

The needed improvements and maintenance on the City of Clearlake’s
Street System far exceed the available revenues for these activities. While
the City remains committed to continue efforts to obtain all possible Fed-
eral and State funding for street improvements, it is apparent that without
the three-quarter percent (3/4%) transactions and use tax revenue the City
will be unable to accomplish its task to maintain the Street System at a
level to adequately serve the traveling public. It estimated that a
three-quarter percent (3/4%) special road transactions and use tax will
produce $1,050,000 in revenues annually.

State law requires the City to prepare and adopt an expenditure plan de-
scribing the specific projects for which the revenues from the tax may be
expended. This plan is also intended to be updated annually, and at the
end of five years. The City’s Five-Year Plan is a simple one as it proposes
to utilize the three-quarter percent (3/4%) transactions and use tax exclu-
sively for street maintenance and rehabilitation purposes. It would follow
the recommendations of the City’s Public Works Director and City’s Pave-
ment Management Program. The City of Clearlake’s Department of Public
Works only has one goal, and that is to provide the City’s traveling public
with the best and most efficient road maintenance possible given the exist-
ing facilities and the available transactions and use tax funds.

The City of Clearlake has prepared a Road Maintenance Transactions and
Use Tax Expenditure Plan for the next five (5) years beginning in 2013 and
going through 2018. The initial years are proposed to be devoted to the re-
habilitation of the major arterial and collector streets within the City of
Clearlake, along with a major effort to repair, patch, and re-pave the local
residential streets, as well as the re-grading of the unimproved streets that
are currently maintained by the City. In addition, the City would set aside
up to five percent (5%) of the approved three-quarter percent (3/4%) spe-
cial transactions and use tax, annually, to provide matching funds for Fed-
eral and State grants related to street improvement and rehabilitation
projects. In addition, up to five percent (5%) of the special transactions
and use tax would be set aside to purchase equipment used in the mainte-
nance of the City’s street system.

The initial Five-year Expenditure Program for the City of Clearlake road
maintenance will include three primary elements:

•	Seasonal Maintenance (by purpose of frequency)

•	Planned Maintenance (by purpose of location)

•	Special Maintenance

Seasonal Maintenance will consist of enhanced maintenance activities

applicable to seasonal demands on a system wide basis and include

such typical tasks as:

•	pothole and surface repairs

•	pavement dig outs and asphalt blankets

•	culvert replacements/improvements

•	crack filling

•	graveling and associated grading on existing unpaved roads main-
tained by the City

•	shoulder restoration

•	re-striping, painting and installation of pavement reflector markings

•	maintenance of street signs

Planned Maintenance will consist of scheduled projects directed at pre-
ventative and protective maintenance measures on the City’s currently
maintained street system to avoid deterioration. Typical examples
would be:

•	pavement grinding removal and replacement

•	asphalt pavement overlay and rehabilitation projects

•	chip seals and other surface treatments

•	rock rip-rap protection

•	bridge deck and railing replacement

•	sidewalk restoration

Special Maintenance will consist of specifically assigned activities such
as:

•	maintenance equipment lease, rental, or purchase

•	sidewalk and bicycle facilities

•	bridge replacement/rehabilitation

The Expenditure Program will be a “living document’’ that will be modified
as necessary to provide the desired results. Using the City’s Pavement
Management Plan, the Public Works Director will develop the annual
maintenance/rehabilitation plan which would be approved by the
Clearlake City Council. The annual review and evaluation process will en-
tail inviting the public to participate in open discussion and evaluation of
any modifications that may be appropriate.

The first several years of the 5-year maintenance program will be dedi-
cated to improving major arterial and collector streets. Failed areas of the
street surface will be removed by grinding, and replacing the failed areas,
with new asphalt concrete to provide a smooth street surface and prepare
the street for an asphalt concrete overlay. The City would make a major ef-
fort to patch potholes, and repair pavement failures on its local and resi-
dential streets, thus raising the overall quality of tie City street
maintenance.

17G5

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ANNUAL EXPENDITURE PROGRAM 2013-2018	
Activity	Estimated  Expenditure  (in % of tax proceeds)
Citywide Seasonal Road Maintenance  •	Pothole and surface repair  •	Pavement dig outs & minor asphalt blankets  •	Drainage repairs/replacement  •	Minor chip seals  •	Crack filling  •	Graveling/grading City maintained unpaved roads  •	Shoulder restoration	15%
Planned Maintenance  •	Pavement grinding, removal & replacement  •	Asphalt pavement overlay and rehabilitation  •	Chip seals and other surface treatments	75%
Maintenance Equipment  •	Specialized equipment rental, lease, purchase  •	Specialized equipment repair	5%
Matching Grant Funding  • Grant matching funds for street improvement projects	5%
Total	100%  (Approx. $1,050,000)

CODE ENFORCEMENT

Beginning with Fiscal Year Budget 2010-2011, the City disbanded code enforce-
ment and significant reduced the amount of money budgeted for animal code con-
trol and laid off employees due to severe budget constraints. Since that time there
has been a tremendous “backslide” in code violations that affects the health and
safety of the community.

As a result of elimination of code enforcement, the city has seen a dra-
matic decline in upkeep of properties resulting in increased complaints
about health and safely issues on properties including buildings that are
not fit for habitation, fire hazards, vermin, stench, lack of sanitary facilities,
illegal construction in rights-of-way, increased feral animal population,
abandoned and inoperative vehicles and other conditions that effect the
public health, safety and welfare, as well as the enjoyment, use and value
of private property.

The Clearlake City Council has determined that code enforcement is a top
priority and that one-fourth of the monies generated from this transaction
and use tax will be used to re-establish code enforcement in the City.

Because there has been no code enforcement for several years, reinstate-
ment of the program will require hiring staff, training to assure compliance
with state and local laws that relate to property rights and the City’s right to
enforce property clean-up, addressing public health issues as a priority
and taking an inventory of properties that are non-compliant with nuisance
and health and safety regulations.

The following budget reflects the first year activities. The amount of funds
generated annually will fluctuate depending on the economy. The budget
will be revised annually to reflect the income and success of the code en-
forcement program.

| Staffing	$230,000
I Supplies and Materials	7,000
Training	5,000
Contract Services (including towing)	40,000
I Abatement of properties	75,000
	
1 TOTAL	$357,000 1

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

IMPARTIAL CITY ATTORNEY ANALYSIS
MEASURE"G"

TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR ROAD
MAINTENANCE AND CODE ENFORCEMENT

Measure G is a one percent (1%) transactions and use tax to be used only
for road maintenance and code enforcement in the City of Clearlake. This
tax is a “special tax’ rather than a “general tax," which means that reve-
nues from the tax would be deposited into a special fund separate from the
City’s general fund to be used only for road maintenance and code en-
forcement, in accordance with the City of Cleartake Road Maintenance
and Code Enforcement Transactions and Use Tax Expenditure Plan (“Ex-
penditure Plan”). The Expenditure Plan is available for review at City Hall,
and details specifically how the proceeds of the tax will be spent for road
maintenance and code enforcement for the first five years of expenditures.
The Expenditure Plan may be amended once each year, through an ordi-
nance adopted by the City Council following a duly noticed public hearing.

State law authorizes cities to adopt transactions and use tax ordinances
with voter approval and to have those taxes administered by the State
Board of Equalization. Pursuant to state law, Measure G was placed on
the ballot by the City Council to ask the voters of Clearlake to approve the
tax at a rate of one percent (1%). The tax would be added to the current
sales and use tax rate in the City of 7.75%, and would be collected at the
same time and in the same manner as the existing sales and use tax.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve adoption of the proposed one percent
(1%) transactions and use tax, the proceeds to be used for road mainte-
nance and code enforcement only. A “no” vote is a vote to reject the adop-
tion of the tax. Measure G will be approved if at least two-thirds (2/3) of the
voters voting on Measure G at the November 6,2012 election, vote yes.

s/Malathy Subramanian
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE"G"

With the difficult economy we are in, we have an opportunity to help our
City of Clearlake with road maintenance and code enforcement. This one
percent (1%) sales tax will raise one million fifty thousand dollars
($1,050,000) annually for road improvements and three hundred fifty thou-
sand dollars ($350,000) annually for code enforcement. This money can
only be used for these purposes. This is a special tax and cannot go into
the general fund.

Measure G includes strict accountability with an Expenditure Plan and
mandatory financial audits. The Expenditure Plan will be revised annually
based on public input and City Council priorities.

This measure spreads the tax burden across a broad spectrum of people,
including tourists and visitors. The funds will only be used for our roads
and code enforcement, and the politicians in Sacramento can't take it
away. This measure gives Clearlake local control over local funds for local
needs. Let’s keep our money in our community for the things that are im-
portant to us

Please join these community leaders and vote yes on Measure G.

s/Carl B. Webb, Planning Comm

s/MarkA. Cooper, Dentist

s/Wiiliam M. Sapeta, Fire Chief

s/Thomas M. Hewlett, DDS

s/Robert D. Kiel, Business Owner

NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED
AGAINST MEASURE "G"

17G7