294

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General Election

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet
On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

CITY

DOWNEY CITY GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

Member ot the City Council, 5th District Vote for One	GABRIEL OROZCO 1EQ m Pi  Small Business Owner 100 ^ ^	
	ALEX SAAB -4 j-Q ^ A  Business Owner/Attorney 1057w ^	
	SALVADOR FRANCO 1 CO ■+ O  Businessman/Entrepenuer 1OU ^ ^	
	RICARDO PEREZ  Attorney At Law 10 1 ^ ^	
DOWNEY CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION		
Shall an ordinance be adopted to reduce the tax on telecommunication M services from 5% to 4.8%; modernize the ordinance to treat taxpayers equally regardless of technology used; and to preserve funding of general City services, such as police, fire protection, street maintenance; and for parks and recreation, library and senior citizen programs; subject to an annual inde		163	yes-*o  164	N0-»O  pendent audit?

END OF BALLOT

07-004E

N LA 294-012

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

Summary. Measure D is proposed by the Downey City Council to update the
City’s existing Utility Users Tax (“UUT”) so that it can be applied equally to
both older phone technology and newer telecommunication technology. Measure
D would decrease the telephone UUT from 5% to 4.8%. The electricity and gas
UUT would remain at the current rate of 5 percent. The proceeds of the UUT
can only be spent on City services.

Background. The UUT is levied on utility users in the City. The City has imposed
the UUT on telephone, electricity and gas services at the rate of 5 percent.

The City’s UUT Ordinance, like those of most California cities with telephone
UUTs, was written before new telecommunications technologies like “smart” cell
phones became available. The City’s UUT ordinance was also written before
several recent changes to Federal law.

The Measure. The Measure would include new telecommunication technologies
and apply the UUT to all intrastate, interstate and international
communications, regardless of the technology used to provide such services. As a
result, private telecommunications services (e.g., T-l) often used by large
businesses would be treated the same as traditional telephone services used by
ordinary consumers. Measure D would apply to telephone communication
services, including landlines, wireless, and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP).
It would not apply to digital downloads such as games, ringtones, and music.

Measure D decreases the UUT on telephone services from 5 percent to 4.8
percent; the UUT on electricity and gas services will remain at the current rate of
5 percent. Voter approval would be required for any future increase in the rate
or scope of services subject to the UUT. Like the existing UUT, Measure D
proposes a general UUT with its proceeds deposited into the City’s General
Fund. UUT revenues help finance such services as police and fire protection,
library hours, the maintenance of parks, playgrounds and athletic fields, and
funds park, recreation, and senior citizen programs. Measure D requires annual
audits to confirm the UUT is properly collected and spent according to the
requirements of Measure D and other laws.

Measure D also reorganizes and updates the administration, collection and
refund procedures for all telephone, electricity and gas users.

Measure D requires approval of a majority of voters. A “yes” vote for Measure D
is a vote in favor of adopting the amended UUT Ordinance. A “no” vote against
Measure D will reject the proposed amendments to the UUT Ordinance, and
continue the UUT in its current form.

YVETTE M. ABICH GARCIA
Downey City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure D. If you desire a copy
of the ordinance or measure, please call the Downey City Clerk’s Office at
(562) 904-7280 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PR-905123-1

N LA 294-060

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Vote YES on Measure D to reduce taxes and maintain essential city services.

The City has promised for years to continue lowering our Utility User’s
Tax - this is next step in that right direction!

Measure D reduces our existing Utility User’s Tax on telephone services which
will save our residents and businesses money every month. The tax rate will be
lowered from the current 5% to the new, reduced rate of 4.8%.

By voting YES on Measure D, you will pay less taxes! No gimmicks, no hidden
agendas - just an honest tax reduction.

Measure D will also make other important changes to ensure our Utility User’s
Tax remains legally compliant:

-	Modernize the utility tax to comply with recent changes in the federal laws
regarding telecommunications services;

-	Prohibit the utility tax from being increased without voter approval;

-	Ensure continued oversight on how the Utility User’s Tax revenue is spent by
requiring independent audits; and

-	Ensure all taxpayers are treated equally.

Our Utility User’s Tax helps pay for basic city services we all rely on such as
police, fire, code enforcement, and street maintenance. Maintaining these
essential city services while reducing the tax burden on our residents and local
businesses is a critical step towards revitalizing our community. That’s why the
Downey City Council voted unanimously to place Measure D on the ballot.

Vote Yes on Measure D...for Lower Taxes

ROGER C. BROSSMER
Mayor

DAVID R. GAFIN
Mayor Pro Tem

MARIO A. GUERRA
Councilman

FERNANDO VASQUEZ
Councilman

LUIS 11. MARQUEZ

Councilman

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-905123-2

N LA 294-061