FULL BALLOT TEXT OF MEASURE E
ARCATA ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

INTRODUCTION

'To provide stable funding the State cannot take away; make health and safety
improvements; fund school nursing programs to promote good health; maintain
small class sizes; retain teachers; and protect and expand music, art, and dance
programs; shall the Areata Elementary School District collect a $49 yearly
education tax for five years, providing an exemption for senior citizens, no money
for administration, with citizen oversight and all money benefiting local Areata
Elementary schools?"

PURPOSES

To provide a local revenue source that cannot be taken by the State, the Areata
Elementary School District proposes to levy and collect an education parcel
tax annually for 5 years as more fully described below under “EDUCATION
PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES," and to implement accountability measures
in connection with the education parcel tax and to provide oversight and
accountability to ensure that funds are used only for the following specific
purposes:

•	Fund school nurse programs to maintain and promote good health

•	Reduce class sizes

•	Address immediate maintenance and safety issues to increase student
safety

•	Maintain or expand art, music and dance programs

The Board of Trustees will not fund any program other than those listed above
from the proceeds of the education parcel tax.

EDUCATION PARCEL TAX AND PROCEDURES

Amount of Education Parcel Tax. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters,
the education parcel tax of $49 per parcel (except exempt parcels, as described
below) shall become effective commencing with fiscal year 2013-14 and be
collected by the Humboldt County Tax Collector at the same time as and along
with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes
collected by said tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District
that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Humboldt
County Tax Collector. For purposes of this education parcel tax, any parcels
which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family
residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting
an application of the owners thereof by June 30 of each year to the District, be
treated as a single “parcel" for purposes of the levy of the core academic programs
parcel tax.

Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the levy of the qualified
special tax.

•	Otherwise Exempt Property. All property that would otherwise be exempt
from property taxes shall also be exempt from the education parcel tax.

•	Senior Citizen Exemption. An exemption shall be available to
persons who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a
principal residence a parcel subject to the education parcel tax.

•	Supplemental Security Income Exemption. An exemption shall be available
to persons who receive Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”) for a
disability, regardless of age, and own and occupy as a principal residence a
parcel subject to the education parcel tax.

Property owners seeking the Senior Citizen or SSI exemption must apply to

the District for such exemption under procedures established by the District or
otherwise as required by law or by the Humboldt County Tax Collector.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the levy
and collection of the education parcel tax and exemptions, and any additional
procedures established by the Board of Trustees of the District, shall be the
exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction,
or re-computation of the qualified special tax. Whether any particular claim is to
be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District,
in coordination with the County as necessary. The District’s Board of Trustees
may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems necessary or
convenient for the administration of the education parcel tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Government Code Accountability. In accordance with the requirements of
California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following
accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the qualified special taxes
levied in accordance with this Measure:

•	the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those

purposes identified above under	the heading “PURPOSES,”

•	the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those
specific purposes identified above under the heading “PURPOSES,”

•

a separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited; and

• the chief fiscal officer of the District shall file an annual written report with the
Board of Trustees of the District showing (1) the amount of funds collected
and expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (2) the
status of any projects, programs, or purposes identified above under the
heading “PURPOSES.”

Citizens’ Oversight Committee. In addition to the accountability measures required
by the Government Code, an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall be
appointed by the Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the expenditures funded
by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes
approved by the voters. The Citizens’ Oversight Committee will monitor the
expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on an annual basis to the
Board and community on how these funds have been spent.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because
of the District’s adoption of an education parcel tax. However, if any such funds are
reduced because of the adoption of this education parcel tax, then the amount of
the education parcel tax will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore
such State or Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this
measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would
have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof.
Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof
shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

BT8

BT8

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E
ARCATA ELEMENTARY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

The Board of Trustees of the Areata Elementary Unified School District (the
District) proposes to levy an education tax of $49 per year for five (5) years on
each parcel of taxable real property in the District, commencing on July 1,2013.
Revenues from the education tax would be used to fund school nurse programs;
reduce class size; increase student safety by addressing immediate maintenance
and safety issues; and maintaining or expanding art, music, and dance programs.

The proceeds of the education tax will be applied only for the specific purposes
identified in the Measure, and shall be deposited into a separate account. The chief
fiscal officer of the District shall prepare and file with the Board an annual written
report detailing the amount of funds collected and expended during the prior fiscal
year, and the status of any project or description of any program authorized by this
Measure.

The measure provides for three education tax exemptions: (1) a Senior Citizen
Exemption for persons 65 years or older who own and occupy as a principal
residence a parcel subject to the education parcel tax; (2) a Supplemental Social
Security Exemption for persons who receive Supplemental Social Security (SSI)
for a disability, regardless of age, and who own and occupy as a principal residence
a parcel subject to the education parcel tax; and (3) an Otherwise Exempt Property
[exemption] for property that would otherwise be exempt from the tax.

Property owners seeking either the Senior Citizen Exemption or the Supplemental
Social Security Exemption must apply to the District under procedures established
by the District, or otherwise as required by law, or by the Humboldt County Tax
Collector.

The taxes levied under this Measure shall be collected by the Humboldt County
Treasurer and Tax Collector at the same time and manner, and subject to the same
penalties, as ad valorem property taxes. Unpaid education taxes shall bear interest
at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes.

A YES vote means that owners of each taxable property within the Areata
Elementary School District (with the exception of Senior Citizens and qualifying
SSI recipients) would pay a tax of $49 per year for five years commencing on July
1,2013.

A NO vote means that the education tax would not be levied.

Measure E will not pass unless it is approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast
by voters in the election.

Prepared by Humboldt County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E
ARCATA ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

Everyone knows the importance and value of having quality schools. From
higher achieving students, to greater neighborhood safety, quality schools make
a difference. However, because the state continues to reduce funding for public
education, we need to do more to protect and maintain the quality of education.
The Areata Elementary School District needs to help its current funding. Funds
raised by this local measure will be used to support instructional opportunities
including nursing and library services, fine and performing art programs, and
technology improvements.

Our children need your YES vote on Measure E! If successful, Measure E will
provide a stable source of local funds to offset the uncertainty of state funding.
With the kind of support provided by the funds from Measure E, our students can
become well rounded, contributing members of the community. Without it, their
educational experience will be compromised.

If passed, Measure E will improve local Areata schools by:

•	Fully funding school nurse programs to maintain and promote good health

•	Maintaining small class sizes

•	Making health and safety improvements

•	Maintaining or expanding art, music and dance programs

•	Retaining and/or rehiring certified staff members

Measure E makes financial sense and protects taxpayers.

•	By law, all parcel tax funds must be spent locally and cannot be taken by
the State.

•	Measure E provides an exemption for any parcel owned and occupied by a
person 65 years of age or older.

•	Spending will be reviewed and annually audited by an independent citizens’
oversight committee

Measure E upgrades technology in classrooms and labs, helps improve the
education of local students, and maintains the quality of our community. That’s
something we can all support. Please join us and VOTE YES ON MEASURE E!

s/ Alexandra Stillman, Areata Council/Property Owner
s/ Thomas G. Clapp, Rookery Books Owner
s/ Mark E. Wheetley, Areata City Council
s/ Keith Rice, President, Kiwanis Club of Areata
s/ Dan Hauser, City Manager, Retired

BT8

BT8