MEASURE AA

ORDINANCE NO. 649

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COMMERCE, STATE OF
CALIFORNIA, ENACTING A ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT (Yz%) TRANSACTIONS
AND USE (SALES) TAX TO FUND GENERAL MUNICIPAL SERVICES

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COMMERCE, STATE OF CALIFORNIA DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. The following new Chapter 3.09 is hereby added to the Commerce Municipal
Code:

’’CHAPTER 3.09

TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Sections:

3.09.010.	Title.
3.09.020.	Operative date.
3.09.030.	Purpose.
3.09.040.	Contract with state.
3.09.050.	Transactions tax rate.
3.09.060.	Place of sale.
3.09.070.	Use tax rate.
3.09.080.	Adoption of provisions of state law.
3.09.090.	Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.
3.09.100.	Permit not required.
3.09.110.	Exemptions and exclusions.
3.09.120.	Amendments.
3.09.130.	Enjoining collection forbidden.
3.09.140.	Oversight, auditing and reporting.
3.09.150.	Severability.
3.09.160.	Effective date.

3.09.010. TITLE.

This chapter shall be known as the "Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance of the City of
Commerce.” The City of Commerce hereinafter shall be called “City." This ordinance shall
be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.09.020. OPERATIVE DATE.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth
below.

3.09.030. PURPOSE.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that
the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A. To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this
tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose. The tax is a

ORDINANCE NO. 649
TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX

general tax whose proceeds shall be deposited in the City’s general fund and expended for
any lawful purposes of the City.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax law ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar
as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by
the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost
of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.09.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and
use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board
of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a
case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract.

3.09.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, an increased tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City of Commerce at the rate
of one-half of one percent (!4%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of
this ordinance.

3.09.060. PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-stat destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.09.070. USE TAX RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of
this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half
of one percent (14%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

3.09.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the

2

ORDINANCE NO. 649
TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES} TAX

provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set
forth therein.

3.09.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of the City shall be substituted therefor However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to
tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or;

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provisions of the code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

3.09.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this chapter.

3.09.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or count pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use
Tax Law or the amount of any state-administrated transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1. Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the
sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government.

3

ORDINANCE NO. 649
TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX

2. Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or
her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of

this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purpose of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconstitutional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this city of tangible personal property.

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issues pursuant to the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Section 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for
any period of time which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purpose of subparagraph (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within

4

the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the
City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle,
vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.09.120. AMENDMENTS.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, shall automatically become a part of this chapter, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter.

3.09.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to
be collected.

3.09.140. OVERSIGHT. AUDITING AND REPORTING.

By no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year after the operative date, the
City’s independent auditors shall complete a report reviewing the collection, management
and expenditure of revenue from the tax levied by this chapter. Additionally, there shall be
an advisory committee to the City Council consisting of no fewer than five seats to review
and report on the receipt of revenue and expenditure of funds form the tax authorized by
this chapter. The committee members shall be either City residents or representatives of
City businesses. Within 90 days of the operative date of this chapter, the City Council
shall adopt a resolution establishing the composition of the committee, appointing the
committee members, setting the terms of office of the committee members, and defining
the scope of the committee’s responsibilities, which at a minimum shall include reviewing
the annual auditor’s report and making recommendations to the City Council for use of the
tax revenue. The committee members shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council. The
committee’s report and recommendations shall be completed by a date to allow for it to be
considered as part of each annual budget process. The committee’s report and
recommendation shall be a matter of public record and shall be considered and reported
by the City Council at a public meeting.

Section 2. This ordinance shall be submitted to the electorate of the City of
Commerce for approval at the November 6, 2012, Special Municipal Election.

Section 3. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause,
or phrase in this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or
invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this chapter or any part thereof.
The people of the City of Commerce, State of California hereby declare that they would

5

have approved each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more subsections, subdivisions,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional, or invalid or
ineffective.

Section 4. This ordinance requires the majority vote of the electorate voting in its
favor in order to become a valid and binding ordinance of the City of Commerce. This
ordinance shall be considered adopted upon the date that the vote is declared by the
legislative body and shall become effective on April 1,2013.

ENACTED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COMMERCE, STATE OF
CALIFORNIA AT THE SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD ON TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 6, 2012,

ATTEST:

(^l4idxMcuf(0lA



Linda Kay Olivi^fi, MMC
City Clerk

ELEC ORDINANCE {SALES TAX} - APPROVED 11-06-2012.DOC

6

Ordinance No. 649

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) SS
CITY OF COMMERCE	)

I, Linda Kay Olivieri, MMC, City Clerk of the City of Commerce, California, do
hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of an Ordinance of said City
which was authorized at a concurrent special meeting of said City Council, held on August
6, 2012, to be presented to the qualified voters of the City for consideration at a Special
Municipal Election to be held on Tuesday, November 6, 2012, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Councilmembers:

Councilmembers:

Councilmembers:

Councilmembers:

Aguilar, Altamirano, Robies,

Mayor Pro Tempore Baca Del Rio,
Mayor Leon

None

None

None

I, further certify that said Ordinance required the majority vote of the qualified
registered voters in the City of Commerce voting in its favor to become a valid and binding
Ordinance of the City of Commerce.

I, further certify that said Ordinance was presented to the qualified registered voters
in the City of Commerce at the November 6, 2012, Special Municipal Election, which was
consolidated with the General Election held on that same date, as Measure AA, and that
said Ordinance was duly approved thereat by the following vote, to wit:

YES:	2,475 Total Votes Cast

NO:	1,184 Total Votes Cast

I, further certify that the City Council approved and adopted Resolution No. 12-145,
reciting the fact of the Special Municipal Election held on Tuesday, November 6, 2012,
declaring the result and such other matters as provided by law, on December 18, 2012,
wherein said Ordinance was deemed adopted and ratified as Ordinance No. 649.

I, further certify that said Ordinance was thereupon signed by the Mayor of the City
of Commerce, California.

Dated: 12/18/2012

Afy	—IKs

Linda Kay Oir
City Clerk

