aiilllUMIiKN	Sample	B«

/!



CITY ___________________________________

CO-Clty of Laguna Beach

Laguna Beach Open Space Acquisition and

Preservation Parcel Tax Measure

Shalt an ordinance be adopted to Impose a
parcel tax of $120 per year on each parcel of
property in the City, unless exempted, tor a
twenty-year period for the acquisition of land for
the permanent preservation of open space with
. the City?

11 _ I Yes

EJ No____________________

II11111 Hll 111II	3663031177 Sample	Ba

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE CC
CITY OF LAGUNA BEACH

'7T

THE LAGUNA BEACH OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION AND PRESERVATION PARCEL TAX MEASURE

The people of the City of Laguna Beach do hereby ordain as follows:	„	, „

SECTION 1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS

A.	Acquisition and Permanent Preservation of City’s Remaining Open Space	v

The purpose of this ballot measure {the “Measure”) is to provide a funding mechanism, over the next twenty years, that will ailow the City of Laguna Beach
(the ‘’City”) to further its longstanding efforts to acquire and permanently preserve the City's remaining open space. The Measure does so by creating a $120
annual pares! tax on each parcel of land within the City, Parcels that are exempt from property taxes would also be exempt from the tax created by this
Measure. Funds raised under this Measure will be used to acquire open space land from willing sellers only. The purchased lands will be permanently
preserved as open space. Four percent of funds generated by this tax each year shall be specifically dedicated for trail maintenance and fire safety. The tax
will expire after twenty years.

B.	The Role of Laguna Beach Residents in Protecting Open Space

Laguna Beach residents have long recognized that the unique character of our City and our quality of life depends on protecting the significant
environmental, aesthetic, economic, and recreational benefits that open space lands provide to the community. For instance, in 1990, nearly 80% of City
voters approved a $20 million bond measure to purchase Laguna Canyon lands, Similarly, in 1998, City residents overwhelmingly supported the Laguna
Beach Open Space Initiative to permanently protect the open space lands already owned by the City. As recognized by the City’s General Plan, which is the
City’s “constitution” for guiding future land use decisions, “[t]he City's open space resources possess important aesthetic and recreational value, and
provide vital wildlife and vegetative habitats, In addition, the undeveloped hillsides contribute greatly to the community identity that distinguishes Laguna
Beach from surrounding communities.” For many years, whenever there has been a reasonable opportunity to acquire undeveloped open space lands from
witling sellers, the City Council has voted to do so. The Measure will provide a dedicated annual revenue source for such purposes so as to ensure this
continued pattern for at least the next twenty years.

C.	Threats to Laguna Beach’s Remaining Unprotected Lands

Although the City has preserved many open space lands, which now form the Laguna greenbelt, there are remaining hillside open spaces adjacent to
residential neighborhoods that could be proposed for development. Conversion of these lands into various types of urban development would result in the
loss of valuable habitat, increased runoff and erosion, and intrusion into public viewsheds. Avoiding development on these lands would minimize these
risks. Preserving these lands would protect property values and public health and safety while minimizing increased traffic and protecting existing scenic
views, air and water quality, and existing water and biological resources.

D.	Establishing Effective Community Oversight

The Measure establishes an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee as a watchdog to ensure that all funds generated under the Measure are used
cost-effectively and only for their intended open space acquisition and preservation purposes. This Committee, andtheCity’schief fiscal officer, would each
provide publicly available annual reports on the use of all funds generated by the Measure. The Citizens’ Oversight Committee would also review in advance
proposed expenditures of the funds generated by the Measure.

SECTION 2:	ADOPTION	OF	OPEN	SPACE	PARCEL	TAX

Special Tax for Open Space Acquisition and Preservation

An annual parcel tax of $120 is hereby imposed on each parcel of land within the City of Laguna Beach (Ihe "City"), to be used for the specific open space
acquisition and preservation purposes, and subject to the community oversight and accountability measures, set forth below. This “Open Space Special
Parcel Tax” shall cease to be imposed or collected after it has been collected for twenty years.

Definition of Parcel

For purposes of this Open Space Special Parcel Tax, a “parcel" is defined as any unit of land within the City that receives a separate tax bill for act valorem
property taxes from the Orange County Assessor’s Office. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property taxes are levied
in any year shall also be exempt from the Open Space Special Parcel Tax in such year,	.............................

Statement of Purposes

Proceeds from the Open Space Special Parcel Tax (“Tax Funds") may only be used for the following purposes:

•	Purchase of open space lands within the City from willing sellers for use as open space;

•	Provide for fire safety and trail maintenance on City-owned open space lands that are purchased with Tax Funds. Four percent of the Tax Funds
generated each year shall be specifically dedicated for fire safety and trail maintenance purposes on such lands. Fire safety activities funded by this tax
shall reduce fire hazards to adjacent urban lands while maintaining and enhancing Geological values and native vegetation to the extent feasible;

•	Create and. as necessary, provide limited funding for a five-member Citizens' Oversight Committee to monitor use and spending of Tax Funds; and

•	Pay administrative costs necessary to collect and administer the Open Space Special Parcel Tax.

Accountability and Oversight

Alt Tax Funds shall bs deposited in a separate account estabtishedfor the purpose of receiving these funds. The City’s chief fiscal officer shall file an annual
report with the City Council no later than January 1,2013, and at least once a year thereafter until ona year after ail tax authorized under the Measure has
been collected and expended, that states the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any purchase or activity authorized to be funded
under the Measure.

Citizens’ Oversight Committee: Prior to expenditure of any Tax Funds, the City Council shall appoint a Citizens' Oversight Committee (“Committee”) with
responsibility to ensure that the Tax Funds are expended in accordance with this Measure.

a.	Responsibilities: The Committee shall review proposed expenditures of the Tax Funds prior to their approval by the City Council (or by any subordinate
City body that will make recommendations regarding such expenditures to the City Council) and shall submit comments to the City Council and any such
bodies on whether the proposals are cost-effective and consistent with She purposes of this Measure, if the Committee objects in writing to a proposed
expenditure of Tax Funds submitted to the City CounciUhen the City Council shall not approve such expenditure unless it adopts written findings explaining
the basis for its decision not to follow the Committee’s recommendation. The Committee shall annually prepare a report to the City Council and the public
making recommendations and evaluating progress concerning expenditure of the Tax Funds. The City Council shall receive and review this report annually
at a noticed public meeting. No more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the Tax Funds collected in a year may be allocated or used to fund the
Committee’s activities. The Committee members shall not receive any financial remuneration (including, but not limited to, compensation, per diem, health
care, or other employee benefits) for their service on the Committee.

b.	Membership and Organization: The Committee shall consist of five members who are residents of the City. No currently elected or appointed city, [
district, county, state, or federal official may serve as a Committee member.

The City Council shall solicit, collect, and review applications for membership on the Committee. Appointments shall be made by a majority vote of the City f
Council considering the following criteria: (i) interest and history of participation in community activities; and (ii) knowledge of open space, fire safety, land [
acquisition, or government accountability issues.

Committee membership shall include the following: (i) a representative of a local taxpayer group; (ii) a representative of a local business group or the
financial community; (Hi) a representative of a local open space advocacy group; and (iv) two representatives of the City at-large.

All members shall have terms of four years; provided, however, that the five members first appointed shall draw lots to select two members who shall serve
Initial terms of two years. No member shall consecutively serve more than two four-year terms. No member shall be removed during the course of his or her
term except for good cause, or if the member has more than three unexcused absences from meetings of the Committee. An absence is excused if a
member submits a written or electronic mail request to excuse the absence and a majority of the other members accept the request at the meeting where it is
considered. A member vacancy shall be filled through the appointment process and in compliance with the membership representation described above.
The Committee may select its own officers and adopt procedural rules and regulations to govern the conduct of Committee meetings.

c.	Open Meetings and Confliots of Interest: The Committee shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act, Government Code
section 54950 et seq., including posting of all agendas, conducting open meetings, and approving its meeting minutes. The Committee shall also comply
with the conflict of interest provisions set forth In Chapter 7 of the Political Reform Act, Government Code section 87100 et seq, and its implementing
regulations, even if the Committee would not otherwise be subject to these requirements.

Prohibition on Using Acquired Open Space Lands for Non-Open Space Uses

Lands acquired with Tax Funds generated by the Open Space Special Parcel Tax shall be preserved as open space in perpetuity and shall not be used for
any purposes inconsistent with open space uses. For purposes of this Measure, "open space uses” means: greenbeits, watershed areas, wildlife preserves,
marine preserves, hiking trails, historical preserves, scientific studies, and vista points. Additional low-impact passive uses may be permitted, subject to a
conditional use permit, where the City Council finds that those uses will not conflict with the open space uses described above and will not have a significant
effect on the environment.

As a condition of any purchase of lands with the Tax Funds, the City shall require the seller to impose in the grant deed a deed restriction on the purchased
lands in substantially the following form:

"This conveyance is made subject to the requirement, which requirement shall extend and be protected in perpetuily, that the Property shall be
used exclusively for the following open space purposes: (a) greenbeits, watershed areas, wildlife preserves, marine preserves, hiking trails,
historical preserves, scientific studies, vista points, and (b) additional low-impact passive uses, permitted by a conditional use permit, where the
City Council finds that those uses will not conflict with the open space uses described above and will not have a significant adverse effect on the
environment. No development, as defined in California Public Resources Code Section 30106, including but not limited to removal of trees and
other major or native vegetation, grading, paving, installation of structures, such as signs, buildings, etc. shall occur or be .allowed on the
Property with the exception of the following: (a) removal of hazardous substances or conditions, diseased plants or trees, or non-native invasive
species; (b) modifications required by the Orange County Fire Department or the Laguna Beach Fire Department; (c) modifications to facilitate
habitat restoration, and (d) installation of signs and interpretive materials approved by the City.

Grantee is prohibited from transferring the Property, whether or not for consideration, unless the following conditions are met; (i) Grantee
requires as a condition of any transfer that transferee continue to use the Property exclusively for one or both of the open space purposes set
forth above, and (Ii) at the time of Grantee’s transfer to transferee, transferee is a 'qualified organization’ as those terms are defined in Internal
Revenue Coda Section 170(h)(3), If a future unexpected change occurs in the condition of or surrounding the Property, and such change makes
impossible or impractical the continued use of the Property for the open space purposes set forth above, then Grantee may sell or exchange the
Properly; provided Grantee exclusively uses any proceeds of sale, or property received in exchange, in a manner consistent with the open
space purposes set forth above,"

If it determines that doing so is necessary to ensure the validity of the deed restriction, the City Council may modify the form of the deed restriction language
required to be imposed on lands purchased with the Tax Funds, provided, however, that any such modification(s) shall be consistent with the purposes of
this Measure,

Pursuant to its usual and customary procedures, and consistent with State law, the City Council shall amend the City of Laguna Beach Land Use Plan Map
to designate any lands acquired with Tax Funds as "Permanent Open Space." The City Council is hereby authorized and directed to amend the General
Plan, the Local Coastal Plan, all specific plans, the Zoning Ordinance, the Zoning Map, and other affected ordinances and policies as soon as possible and
in the manner and time required by any applicable State law, to ensure consistency between these Land Use Plan Map designations and other elements of
the General Plan, the Local Coastal Plan, all specific plans, the Zoning Ordinance, the Zoning Map, and other City ordinances and policies.

Prohibition on Using Funds to Acquire Land via Eminent Domain

No Tax Funds shall be used to acquire lands via eminent domain.

SECTION 3: IMPLEMENTATION

Although it is notan ad valorem tax, the Open Space Special Parcel Tax shall be billed by the County of Orange (the "County") on the securedroli tax bills for
ad valorem property taxes and shall be due to the City. The Open Space Special Parcel Tax shall be collected in the same manner in which the County
collects secured roll ad valorem property taxes. The reasonable costs incurred by the County in collecting and administering this special tax may be
deducted from the collected tax.

SECTION 4: SEVERABiLfTY AND INTERPRETATION

This Measure shall be interpreted so as to be consistent with ail applicable Federal, State, and City laws, rules, and regulations. If any section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion of this Measure is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a final judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Measure. The voters hereby declare that this Measure, and
each section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion thereof would have been adopted or passed even if one or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases, parts, or portions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any
provision of this Measure is held invalid as applied to any person or circumstance, such invalidity shall not affect any application of this Measure that can be
given effect without the invalid application. This Measure shall be broadly construed in order to achieve the purposes stated In this Measure.

SECTION 5: AMENDMENT OR REPEAL

Except as otherwise provided herein, this Measure may be amended or repealed only by the voters of the City.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF LAGUNA BEACH
MEASURE CC

Laguna Beach Open Space Acquisition and Preservation Parcel Tax Measure

This ballot measure, if approved by the voters, would establish a funding mechanism for the acquisition of land for the permanent preservaiion of open space
within the City. For each year during a twenty-year period, a special parcel tax of $120 would be levied on each parcel of properly in the City, except for
properties already exempt from property taxes or on which no property taxes are levied. A two-thirds majority of the voters must approve the batiot measure
for it to be adopted.

The revenues collected from the parcel tax would be placed in a separate account and may only be used for the following purposes:

•	The purchase of open space lands wtibin the City for open space purposes. Purchase would be from willing sellers only. Tax proceeds could not be
used to acquire property through eminent domain proceedings.

•	The provision of fire safety and trail maintenance on City-owned open space lands that are purchased with tax proceeds. Four percent of the tax
proceeds each year would be specifically dedicated to this purpose.

•	The creation and, as necessary, the provision of limited funding for a Citizens’ Oversight Committee to monitor use and spending of the tax proceeds.

•	The payment of administrative costs necessary to collect and administer the parcel lax.

The bailot measure defines "open space uses” to mean greenbelts, watershed areas, wildlife preserves, marine preserves, hiking trails, historical preserves,
scientific studies, and vista points. The City may approve conditional use permits for additional low-impact passive uses that do not conflict with open space
uses and do not have a significant effect on the environment. Permanent open space requirements would be established through deed restrictions on lands
acquired with tax proceeds.

The ballot measure creates a five-member Citizens' Oversight Committee to be appointed by the City Council. Three members would be representatives of
a focal taxpayer group, a local business group or the financial community, and a local open space advocacy group; and two members would be selected
from the community at large. State open meeting and conflict of interest laws would apply to the Committee’s activities.

The responsibilities of the Citizens' Oversight Committee include reviewing proposed expenditures of tax proceeds and submitting comments to the City
concerning the cost-effectiveness of proposed expenditures and their consistency with the purposes of the ballot measure. If the Committee objects to a
proposed expenditure, then the Cily could not approve it unless the City Council adopts written findings explaining the basis for its decision not to follow the
Committee’s recommendation. The Committee would be responsible for preparing an annual public report making recommendations and evaluating
progress concerning expenditures of tax proceeds. The report would be reviewed by the City Council at a noticed public meeting. Also annually, the City's
chief fiscal officer must file a report stating the amount of tax funds collected and expended, and the status of any purchase or activity authorized fo be
funded.

Dated: July 20, 2012

sI Philip D. Kohn
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE CC

THE LAGUNA BEACH OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION AND
PRESERVATION PARCEL TAX MEASURE

LEGACY (noun): something handed down from previous generations

Our community is special. That's no accident. Our schools, hospital, and
arts venues reflect the vision and initiative of previous generations.
Well-established institutions and unique public spaces help set Laguna
apart. So does our open space—thanks to enlightened leadership and, at
crucial moments, strong citizen involvement.

In 1989, in a landmark event, thousands filled the Canyon Road to oppose
developing Laguna Canyon. Voters in 1990 authorized a bond to purchase
that land for open space. State funding since then has helped to continue
our conservation efforts.

The job is not quite done. The green, naturally vegetated hillsides and
canyons around town may look like open space, but nearly 400 acres
remain in private hands, vulnerable to development. Recognizing that state
funds for open space are no longer available, volunteers last fail gathered
thousands of signatures for Measure CC.

Measure CC says, in part, "for many years, whenever there has been a
reasonable opportunity to acquire undeveloped open space lands from
willing sellers, the City Council has voted to do so. The Measure will ...
ensure this continued pattern for at least the next twenty years.”

Thisis more than a lofty goal. Edward McMahon, Senior Research Fellow at
the Urban Land Institute, the nation's leading real estate forum, says that
more green space leads to higher property values. That makes Measure
CC a solid investment.

The proposed annual tax of S120 per parcel will generate $21 million over
20 years and then automatically expire. Only the City Council, with
oversight by a citizens' watchdog committee, can approve acquisitions.
Visit iaaunaopenspace.com to learn more.

Let’s continue Laguna’s forward-thinking tradition. As our legacy, lot’s keep
on saving the naturally beautiful setting that makes Laguna, Laguna. Vote
YES on CC.

s/ Fred Droz

Former Chairperson, Laguna Beach Vision Steering Committee

s/ Michael Gosselin .

Laguna Beach Realtor®

s/ Elisabeth M. Brown

Local Conservationist and Community Leader
s/ Theresa O’Hare

Governing Board Member, Laguna Beach Unified School District
s/ Gary T. Jenkins

Pediatrician, 2012 Patriots Day Citizen of the Year

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE CC

THE LAGUNA BEACH OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION ANO
PRESERVATION PARCEL TAX MEASURE

Legacy (noun) something handed down from previous generations.
But not a $20,000,000 debt handed down to our children and grandchildren.

Quote by Thomas Jefferson—It is incumbent on every generation to
pay its own debts as it goes.

These paresis are unbuiidable as is the open space next to them. The
only citizens that will gain from this parcel tax are the landowners that
bought the land on speculation. They pay taxes on this land every year.
Let's keep it that way.

VOTE NO ON THE PARCEL TAX .

8/ Martha Lydick

President, Laguna Beach Taxpayers Association

1

L

ARGUMENTA^N^iimURECC'

THE LAGUNA BEACH OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION AND
PRESERVATION PARCEL TAX MEASURE

When there is a legitimate opportunity to add land acquisition to our
successful open space program, that is a good thing for our community.
Imposing a special tax to fund a vaguely defined property acquisition
program, is not. This special parcel tax not only sets a philosophical
precedent which goes against common sense, but it creates a $20 million
tax levy on ail private property owners, takes away real estate tax income
on property currently owned and, adds the cost of maintenance and ilabilily
for newly acquired land.

A special tax should bB approved only if one of two conditions
exists: an emergency has occurred for which there is no other funding such
as the 2005 Bluebird Canyon slide: or, a unique opportunity for purchase
becomes available such as Measure H, for the Canyon open space.

Neilher one of these conditions exist. The previous bond Measure
H was levied to pay for land already under contract. The parcel tax is
earmarked for purchase of an unstated quantity of privately owned parcels
of unknown price,

Most of the open space that will be purchased with tax dollars under
this program is open because the parcels are either too smali to be usable,
are unbuildabfe, or are not accessible by city streets. Although limited to
"willing sellers", the combined effect of strict controls on development and
costs of private ownership of unusable land will make many owners not only
willing but eager to sell unused parcels to the city for windfall profits.
Developer speculation on unbuiidable sites could cost the city millions.

Finally, only $4Q,000/year is dedicated to its maintenance.
Acquisition of these lands by the city will benefit few but create new costs
and liabilities for the entire community.

VOTE NO ON THE PARCEL TAX.
s/ Bobbi Cox, Reaitor
s/ Steve Dicterow, former Mayor
s/ Michele Hall, President Laguna Beach Republicans
s/ Cheryi Kinsman, CPA, former Mayor
s/ Martha Lydick, Laguna Beach Taxpayers Assoclaiion

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENTAGAINST MEAliltIRECC "

THE LAGUNA BEACH OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION AND
PRESERVATION PARCEL TAX MEASURE

The Taxpayers Association raises questions clearly addressed by Measure
CC. Visit laaunaopensoace .com to read the initiative for yourself and revisw
the Frequently Asked Questions section.

For 25 years, Laguna relied on. State conservation funds to acquire open
space when it made sense. The Taxpayers say this Is a good thing, We
agree.

State conservation funds, now largely depleted, were available only
because voters, and Laguna voters overwhelmingly, supported the Idea of
setting aside dollars for open space. Such funds were accessed when land
purchases of lasting value for the public materialized. That's how Measure
CC would work.

The difference under Measure CC is that our tax dollars won’t go to
Sacramento, they’ll stay here. We'll see our tax dollars at work, maintaining
the character of our community.

The Taxpayers say Measure CC fails to meet conditions that would warrant
their support: (1) an emergency or (2} a special opportunity. They offer the
2005 Bluebird Canyon landslide and The Irvine Company’s plans to
develop Laguna Canyon as more compelling situations.

Yet the Taxpayers opposed the Save the Canyon bond, Measure H. Had
voters listened to the Taxpayers then, there would be 3,500 homes in the
Canyon. The Taxpayers did not support the temporary sales tax to pay for
the Bluebird landslide repairs—and failed to suggest any alternative.

We support Measure CC because it is a special opportunity. A modest,
short-term investment now will preserve a crucial part of what makes
Laguna Beach so special.

s/ Nelf Fitzpatrick
Former Laguna Beach Mayor

s/ John B. Thomas
Real Estate Consultant

s/ Sam Goldstein

Laguna Live Co-Founder and Downtown Laguna Businessman

s/ Michael Ray

North Laguna Resident, Developer, and
Great Park Conservancy Board Member

s/ Mark Christy
Lifelong Laguna Resident