MILL VALLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE B

MEASURE B: To replace signifi- YES

cant cuts by the State in education ----------

funding; protect the quality of ]\o

local elementary and middle schools, and ------------

attract and keep highly qualified core academic teach-
ers; shall the Mill Valley School District be authorized
to implement a parcel tax of one hundred ninety-six
dollars for eight years, requiring annual audit and
accountability measures, and with all revenues kept
local and used exclusively for Mill Valley elementary
and middle schools?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE B

MILL VALLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
Mill Valley School District will be authorized to levy a
qualified special parcel tax of One Hundred Ninety-Six
Dollars ($196.00) on each parcel of taxable real property
within the District each year for eight (8) years, beginning
July 1, 2013 and expiring June 30, 2021. Under the special
tax measure, the tax rate will increase annually commen-
surate with the annual percentage increase to the San Fran-
cisco-Oakland-San Jose Price Index for All Urban Con-
sumers (“CPI”), not to exceed 3% per year. The annual
adjustments will begin July 1,2014 (based on the percent-
age increase in CPI from May 1 of the previous year to
May 1 of the current year) and continue until the expira-
tion date of the measure June 30, 2021. As stated in the
District’s Resolution proposing the parcel tax, the rev-
enues collected by this Measure shall be used to replace
significant cuts by the State in education funding in Mill
Valley, to protect the quality of local elementary and mid-
dle schools, and to attract and keep highly qualified teach-
ers. The tax measure adopted by the District provides that
parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or
older will be exempted from the tax upon application for
such exemption. The Measure requires that the District’s
Chief Financial Officer file an annual report to the District
Board regarding the amount of funds collected and ex-
pended and the status of any project required or authorized
to be funded by the special tax.

s/JACK F. GOVI
Acting County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Mill Valley residents are justifiably proud of our excellent
public elementary and middle school district. The Mill
Valley School District is in the top 3% highest-performing
districts in California. But deep and continuing cuts in
state education funding threaten to take that away from us.
We need reliable local revenue to protect our schools from
the relentless Sacramento money grab that has cost our
local schools millions of dollars. Every dollar raised by
Measure B will remain in the Mill Valley School District
and cannot be taken by the state.

State budget cuts have already forced the District to slash
important classroom programs and supplies and to elimi-
nate positions. More state budget cuts are on the way and
may force the District to make even more painful cuts to
core academic programs.

In past years, the voters in our district have stepped up
along with parents to protect our local schools and we
need to do so again this year. Voting YES for Measure B
will enable the Mill Valley School District to:

•	Protect against damaging state budget cuts;

•	Attract and keep skilled, qualified teachers and pro-
vide teacher training;

•	Maintain school libraries and library sen ices;

•	Prevent a shortened school year;

•	Provide programs for at-risk students and students
who need additional support;

•	Replace some of the funding the district lost to the
state.

Great schools benefit everyone in our community. Mill
Valley’s top-performing schools increase our property val-
ues and make Mill Valley a wonderful place to live and
work. And, of course, we all have a stake in the future suc-
cess of today’s young people.

Please VOTE YES on Measure B. Together, we can safe-
guard our students from state budget cuts, keep our excel-
lent teachers and preserve vital classroom programs.

Visit protectmvschoois.org for more information.
s/BOB CANEPA
Retired Mill Valley Businessman
s/TRISHA GARLOCK
Executive Director, Kiddo!
s/KIM KIRLEY
Co-President, Mill Valley Teachers Association
s/GARRY LION
Mayor, City of Mill Valley
s/ROBIN MOSES
President, Mill Valley School District Board of Trustees

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B
WAS SUBMITTED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

EXHIBIT A

FULL TEXT OF THE SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEA-
SURE FOR Mil l VALLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT
(November 6, 2012)

MILL VALLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT PUBLIC EDUCA-
TION QUALITY PRESERVATION MEASURE OF 2012
Article 1: INTRODUCTION

The revenues used by this Measure (“Measure”) shall be
used to replace significant cuts by the State in education
funding in Mill Valley, to protect the quality of local ele-
mentary and middle schools, and to attract and keep high-
ly qualified teachers. This Measure includes the account-
ability and public information protections which are listed
in this Measure.

Article 2: TERMS

Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this mea-
sure, the District shall be authorized to and shall levy a
qualified special tax of one hundred and ninety-six dollars
per year per parcel of taxable real property in the District
for eight years, commencing July 1, 2013 and expiring
June 30, 2021. Under the special tax measure, the tax rate
will increase annually commensurate with the annual per-
centage increase to the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
Price Index for All Urban Consumers (“CPI”), not to
exceed 3% per year. The annual adjustments will begin
July 1,2014 (based on the percentage increase in CPI from
May 1 of the previous year to May 1 of the current year)
and continue until the expiration date of the measure June
30, 2021.

Article 3: PURPOSE

The revenues raised by this Measure shall be used by the
Mill Valley School District (the “District”) exclusively for
the following purposes:

•	Replace significant cuts by the State in education.

•	Attract and keep highly qualified teachers in core aca-
demic subjects.

•	Protect the quality of essential reading, writing, math,
science and social science programs at local (K-8) ele-
mentary and middle schools.

•	Provide effective school library services.

•	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and
ensure District accountability by providing for inde-
pendent financial audits of revenues and expenditures.

Article 4: ACCOUNTABILITY AND PUBLIC
INFORMATION MEASURES

(a)	Accountability Requirements:	The members of the

Board of Eduction, the District Superintendent, and offi-
cers of the District are hereby requested and directed, indi-
vidually and collectively, to provide accountability mea-
sures pursuant to Government Code section 50075.1 that
include, but are not limited to, all of the following: (i) a
statement indicating the specific purposes of the qualified
special tax, (ii) a requirement that the proceeds be applied
only to the specific purposes identified pursuant to subsec-
tion (i), (iii) the creation of a separate special account into
which the proceeds from the special taxes shall be deposit-

ed, and (iv) an annual report pursuant to Section 50075.3
of the Government Code.

(b)	Annual Report:	Pursuant	to	Section	50075.3 of the

Government Code, the Board of Education directs that the
Chief Financial Officer of the District file a report with the
Board no later than July 1, 2014, and at least once a year
thereafter for the duration of the special tax. The annual
report shall contain both of the following: (i) the amount
of funds collected and expended from the special taxes,
and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or
authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special
taxes.

(c)	Specific Purposes: All of the purposes set forth in the
measure shall constitute the specific purposes of the Mill
Valley School District Public Education Quality Preserva-
tion Measure of 2012, and the proceeds of that special tax
shall be applied only for such purposes.

Article 5: PROTECTION OF FUNDING
If the adoption of this Measure results in any decrease in
State or Federal funding to the District, then the amount of
the special taxes authorized by this Measure will be
reduced annually as necessary in order to restore any such
reduction in State or Federal funding.

Article 6: LEVY AND COLLECTION

(a)	Collection:	The	Mill	Valley	School	District Public

Education Quality Preservation Measure of 2012 special
tax shall be collected by the Marin County Tax Collector
(the “Tax Collector”) at the same time and in the same
manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad
valorem property taxes collected by the Tax Collector. The
collection of taxes under the Measure shall not decrease
the funds available from other sources of the District in
any period from the effective date hereof.

(b)	Definition:	“Parcel	of	taxable	real	property”	as	used

herein shall be defined as any unit of real property in the
boundaries of the Mill Valley School District that receives
a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
Tax Collector’s Office.

(c)	Exemption:	All	property	that	the	Tax	Collector	has

determined to be otherwise exempt from or on which are
levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also
be exempt from the Measure in such year. The Tax Col-
lector’s determination of exemption or relief for any rea-
son of any parcel from taxation, other than the Senior
Citizen Exemption, shall be final on the taxpayer for pur-
poses of the Measure. Taxpayers desiring to challenge the
Tax Collector’s determination should do so under the pro-
cedures established by the Tax Collector’s Office and
Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code or other applicable law. Taxpayers seeking any
refund of taxes paid pursuant to the Measure shall follow
the procedures applicable to tax refunds pursuant to the
California Revenue and Taxation Code.

(d)	Senior Citizen Exemption:	Parcels	owned and occu-

pied by individuals who are 65 years of age or older, may
be exempt pursuant to the Senior Citizen Exemption pro-
visions set forth below. Pursuant to Government Code
Section 50079, a senior exemption will be included in the
measure; the exemption shall be granted for any parcel

owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over on
or before January 1 of any applicable year who uses that
parcel as his or her principal place of residence, upon
application for exemption. The District shall annually pro-
vide a list to the Tax Collector, on or before a date estab-
lished by the Tax Collector of each year, of the parcels
which the District has approved for the Senior Citizen
Exemption as described above.

(e)	Duration:	The	collection	of	taxes	pursuant	to	this

Measure shall be for eight (8) years, commencing July 1,
2013 and expiring June 30, 2021.

(f)	Associated Costs:	The	revenues	from	this	Measure

shall be used to reimburse the District for (i) costs for
annual collection of the Parcel Tax charged by the County;
and (ii) costs of the Parcel Tax election (in initial year
only).

Article 7: SEVERABILITY

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sen-
tence, and clause of this Measure has independent value,
and the Board and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision here-
of. Upon approval of this Measure by the voters, should
any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall
remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed
by law.

MVB-3