San Bruno Park School District

Measure G

“To reduce the impact of State funding cuts to our public schools; provide local funding the State cannot take away; sustain our high quality
neighborhood schools; reduce combination classes; attract and retain highly qualified teachers; reduce cost of special education; and fund
curriculum modernization; shall the San Bruno Park School District levy an educational parcel tax of $199 per parcel annually for five
years, with citizens’ oversight, annual audits, no money for administrator salaries, and an exemption for seniors?”_____________

Full Text

SAN BRUNO PARK ALTERNATIVE REVENUE
AUGMENTATION ACT

This Measure may be known and referred to as the “San Bruno
Park Alternative Revenue Augmentation Act” or as “Measure G”.

FINDINGS

The most important job of San Bruno Park schools is to
give the children of San Bruno Park the quality education they
deserve in order to improve student achievement, help every child
read at or above grade level, and prepare students for college and
careers.

The San Bruno Park School District (the “District”) is
committed to improving teacher performance and retaining the very
best teachers.

The State of California’s budget deficits have and will
continue to cut funding for San Bruno Park schools.

Without additional funding sources, the District cannot
continue to provide the level of services and school salaries that
residents currently enjoy.

Support for special education is needed to meet children’s
essential academic and social needs, and to offset the cost to the
general fund.

A parcel tax will help modernize the District’s curricula to
ensure 21st century learning.

A parcel tax will generate local dollars for local San Bruno
Park schools for priorities decided by the Governing Board and not
politicians in Sacramento.

TERMS AND SUNSET

Upon approval of two thirds of those voting on this San
Bruno Park Alternative Revenue Augmentation Act, the District
shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax (educational parcel
tax) at the annual rate of $ 199 per parcel of taxable real property for
five years commencing January 1, 2013.

PURPOSES

Moneys raised under this San Bruno Park Alternative
Revenue Augmentation Act shall be authorized to be used only in
accordance with priorities established by the Governing Board to
fund compensation:

For attracting and retaining highly qualified teachers;

For improving student achievement;

For special education;

For offsetting reductions in State funding;

For reducing combination classes; and

For curriculum modernization.

LOW-INCOME AND SENIOR CITIZEN TAXPAYER
EXEMPTION

An exemption from the educational parcel tax shall be made
for senior citizens over the age of 65, and for owners of single-family
residential units in which the taxpayer resides and whose combined
family income from all sources for the previous calendar year is at
or below the income level qualifying as “very low income” for a
family of such size under Section 8 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 and following for each
year. Owners must apply for this exemption annually by petition
to the Office of the Chief Financial Officer of the District in the
manner and at the time set forth in procedures established by the
District. Such petitions shall be on forms available from the Chief
Financial Officer’s office and must provide information sufficient
to verify income including, but not limited to, federal income tax
returns and W-2 forms of owner-occupants.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The
Governing Board shall establish an independent Citizens’ Oversight
Committee to review the Independent Annual Audit and other
records of how moneys raised under this Measure have been spent
in order to ensure that such moneys have been spent wisely and
only for the purposes named in this Measure. The Governing Board
shall provide by resolution for the composition, duties, funding and
other necessary information regarding the Committee’s formation
and operation.

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection
of the educational parcel tax, the Governing Board shall cause an
account to be established for deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to
Government Code Section 50075.1. For so long as any proceeds
remain unexpended, the Superintendent or the Chief Financial
Officer of the District shall cause an independent financial auditor
to prepare a report to be filed with the Governing Board no later
than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2013,
stating (1) the amount collected and expended in such year, and (2)
the status of any projects or description of any programs funded.
Said Independent Audit may be paid from the proceeds of the
educational parcel tax. The report may relate to the calendar year,
fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as said officer shall
determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual
budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Governing
Board.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this San
Bruno Park Alternative Revenue Augmentation Act shall constitute
the specific purposes of the educational parcel tax, and proceeds
thereof shall be applied only for such purposes.

SECURITY FROM STATE SEIZURE OR USE

If, in any fiscal year during the term of the educational
parcel tax, the State Legislature or Governor shall approve any law
or take any action the effect of which shall be to deprive the District
of the benefit of any proceeds of the educational parcel tax, whether
by directly taking such proceeds for any State purpose or by taking
such proceeds into account for purposes of calculating State support
of the District under Section 8 of Article XVI or under any program
of categorical aid, special aid or other special programs, then the

San Bruno Park School District

Governing Board may reduce the rate of the educational parcel tax
commensurately.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The educational parcel tax shall be collected by the San
Mateo County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in
the same manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad
valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector.
Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for
unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any
unit of real property in the District which receives a separate tax
bill for ad valorem property taxes from the San Mateo County
Treasurer-Tax Collector. “Parcel of taxable real property” shall
exclude all parcels which are otherwise exempt from or on which
are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year, and all parcels
which qualify for the low-income taxpayer exemption provided by
this San Bruno Park Alternative Revenue Augmentation Act in any
year.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels to the
San Mateo County Treasurer-Tax Collector which the District has
approved for exemption in accordance with this Measure. Eligibility
for the low-income taxpayer exemption shall be determined solely
by the District, and any taxpayer wishing to challenge the District’s
determination, or claim a refund or reimbursement of taxes paid
while eligible for the exemption, shall apply directly to the District.

The San Mateo County Assessor’s determination of
exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel of real property from
taxation, other than through the low-income taxpayer exemption
provided for herein, shall be final and binding for the purposes
of the educational parcel tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the
County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures
for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Part 9 of
Division 1 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other
applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of any tax
paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds
pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Governing Board hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this San Bruno Park Alternative Revenue Augmentation
Act concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of
this Measure has independent value, and the Governing Board and
the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless
of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this Measure
by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof
shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by
law.

Impartial Analysis of Measure G

The California Constitution and state law authorize school
districts to levy qualified special taxes for specified purposes.
Government Code Section 50077 provides that such tax measures
pass if two-thirds of those voting on them vote for them.

By this measure, the Governing Board of the San Bruno Park
School District proposes to levy a parcel tax, which is a special
tax under state law, for a period of five years, beginning January 1,
2013. This tax shall be at a rate of $199 per year per parcel on all
taxable parcels in the San Bruno Park School District.

A parcel is defined as any unit of real property in the San Bruno
Park School District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from San Mateo County tax collection officials. Any
property owner who is either (1) aged 65 years or older or (2) who
resides in a single family residence and whose combined family
income from all sources for the previous calendar year is at or below
the income level qualifying as “very low income” under Section 8
of the United States Housing Act of 1937, may apply annually for
an exemption from the tax. All property which is otherwise exempt
from or on which is levied no ad valorem property taxes will also
be exempt from the proposed tax.

The stated purposes of the parcel tax are to fund compensation
to: attract and retain highly qualified teachers; improve student
achievement; support special education; offset reductions in State
funding; reduce combination classes; and modernize the curriculum.
The proceeds from the tax may be used only for these purposes.

The proceeds of the parcel tax will be placed into a special
account. An independent citizens’ oversight committee will be
established to ensure that revenues from this tax are spent only
on the listed purposes. An annual report will be filed with the
Governing Board that accounts for the parcel tax revenues collected
and expended and the status of projects funded by the tax.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a parcel tax to be
levied on property within the boundaries of the San Bruno
Park School District for a period of five years beginning
January 1, 2013, in an amount of $199 per year per taxable
parcel for the purposes listed above.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the parcel tax
to be levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the
measure vote “yes.”

San Bruno Park School District

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument in Favor of Measure G	Rebuttal	to	Argument	in	Favor	of	Measure	G

Since 2006, the California State government has severely
decreased public education funding affecting all school districts.
The San Bruno Park School District has been able to protect the
“classroom” from decreasing revenues by implementing numerous
cost cutting measures, leveraging public funds wisely to insure the
fiscal solvency of the school district, building a new middle school,
attracting and retaining highly qualified teachers and staff, and
providing a high quality education for our children. However, we
now need additional revenue in order to sustain our excellent public
education in San Bruno.

Measure G will be the first educational parcel tax to go before the
San Bruno voters in order to generate approximately $2 million
annually for five years. The moneys obtained will be used for the
following:

•	Provide local control over revenue that the State cannot take
away

•	Reduce the impact of State funding cuts to SBPSD
neighborhood schools, which could be $1.5 million for
2012-13

•	Sustain our high quality neighborhood schools

•	Reduce combination classes in K-5 grades and continue to
increase academic performance throughout the SBPSD

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers to ensure academic
success in all our public schools

•	Reduce the cost of special education by providing high
quality, efficient special education services in San Bruno

•	Fund curriculum reform to ensure orderly transition to
common core standards in the next few years

The monies generated will be carefully monitored by a Citizens’
Oversight Committee composed of members of the community,
parents, and teachers who will have access to annual expense reports
and internal and external audits. NO monies raised will be used
for administrator compensation. An exemption to this educational
parcel tax will be granted to seniors above 65. Therefore, we are
asking the San Bruno community to vote YES for Measure G for
our children’s future.

/s/	Kathryn Marinos  Technology Teacher	August 17, 2012
/s/	Berta J. Tovar  R.E. Broker	August 17, 2012
/s/	Scott Curtner  Elementary School Parent	August 17, 2012
/s/	Ken Ibarra  Vice Mayor, City of San Bruno	August 17, 2012

How bad does a parcel tax measure have to be to vote NO on it? In
a 7/26/2012 newspaper interview, San Bruno Park School District
(SBPSD) Board Member Jennifer Blanco explained her vote against
putting this parcel tax on the Election Ballot by saying that although
she generally favors the idea of a parcel tax, she considered the
proposed language too vague and the timing poor. When one of the
SBPSD Board’s strongest supporters of parcel taxes votes against a
parcel tax measure, that’s a huge red flag indicating that you should
also VOTE NO.

Fiscal responsibility starts by living within your means. The San
Bruno Park School District Administration and Board have proven
they are not fiscally responsible.

The San Bruno Park School District’s 2012-2013 Proposed Budget
proclaims: “The District continues to deficit spend.” The San
Bruno Park School District Board and Superintendent have refused
to make the budget adjustments necessary to stop the San Bruno
Park School District’s chronic deficit spending. Now they want
San Bruno Park School District taxpayers to pay higher even more.

During this recession, you and your family struggle to cope with
higher taxes plus increasing gas, food, utilities, housing, and medical
expenses. All this is the financial version of “death by 1,000 cuts.”

This parcel tax will reward and invite more deficit spending in the
San Bruno Park School District—unless you VOTE NO to stop it.

You can be for children, for schools, for teachers, and against
Measure G.

Please vote NO on Measure G.

More here: www.SaveSanBrunoSchools.com or
w w w. S VTaxpay ers. org/measure-g.

/s/	John W.S. Roeder	August 27,2012

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/	Harland Harrison	August 27,2012

Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County

San Bruno Park School District

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument Against Measure G	Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure	G

This latest special parcel tax ($199) from the San Bruno School
District tries to use the state budget crisis to grab unearned money.
The district wants additional funds beyond the bond measures
passed in 2011, 1998, and 1996.

Homeowners already feel the pinch of difficult financial times.
With the California unemployment rate “officially” at 10.7% (the
national average = 8.3%) and the real rate that includes people who
have stopped looking for work much higher, Measure G will hurt
all but those who are exempt from the tax.

The district is asking for more money, while student enrollment is
declining.

The number of teachers (full time equivalents) has declined from
123.7 in the 2008-9 school year to 101.8 in the 2010-11 school
year.

They want more money while both the number of students and
teachers are declining.

If the district has fewer student and fewer teachers, shouldn’t
expenses be down?

Families’ budgets are being slashed throughout the district’s
homes—why not for School District?

This parcel tax will also inhibit the recovery of home prices on the
Peninsula.

The measure says that none of the funds will be used for
administration. But, funds generated outside of this parcel tax
can be used for administration expenses without limits. So, that is
really an empty promise. Do not be fooled.

Here are the student enrollment figures and average teacher salaries:

2010-11 enrollment: 2,599 - teacher average salary = $64,402 |
statewide average = $64,388

2009-10 enrollment: 2,620 - teacher average salary = $62,092 |
statewide average = $67,531

2008-9 enrollment: 2,619 - teacher average salary = $59,731 |
statewide average = $66,351

Tell the San Bruno Park School Board to be fiscally responsible by
voting NO on G.

For more information: www.SVTaxpayers.org/measure-g

/s/	John Roeder	August 17,2012

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/	Harland Harrison	August 17,2012

Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County CA

The opposition to Measure G comes from outsiders (not from
the San Bruno community) who have made misleading and false
statements, for example, 2011 Bond Measure O PASSED (it did
NOT!). San Bruno Park School District (established 1907) has
never before asked the San Bruno community for an educational
parcel tax.

The SBPSD has lost $4-5 million annually from State cuts and the
district has accomplished fiscal solvency by:

•	Elimination of Class Size Reduction program from 20 to 31
students in each class

•	Joint site sharing of principals

•	No salary increases for teachers, staff and administration
since 2007

•	Loss of teacher and staff professional development days

•	Elimination of two assistant superintendents

•	No new instructional materials adoption since 2007

•	Reduction in the number of purchased books for school
libraries

•	Elimination of elementary school music and GATE programs

On the revenue side, the SBPSD has installed solar panels on all
school sites to offset increasing electrical costs, generated rent
income from Engvall site, and set aside funds for medical benefits
in retirement to offset mandatory annual payments. Therefore,
SBPSD has been fiscally responsible.

If Measure G doesn’t pass, painful budget cuts to the SBPSD could
occur. The options are grim: cut up to 20 school days from the
2012-13 school year, and/or closure of one or more neighborhood
elementary schools in 2013-14.

The time to act is now on Election Day to vote YES on Measure
G: maintain Great neighborhood schools and preserve an excellent
public education for the children of San Bruno.

/s/	Teri Vo	August 26, 2012
	President of Parkside School Site Council	
/s/	Julia Maynard	August 27, 2012
	San Bruno Education Association President	
/s/	Marcella Gigena  Parent, Parkside	August 27, 2012