134

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General Election

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOU to your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet
On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

COUNTY MEASURES

B Shall an ordinance be adopted requiring producers of adult films to obtain 132	YiS^O

a County public health permit, to require adult film performers to use--------------------------------

condoms while engaged in sex acts, to provide proof of blood borne “133	NO^O

pathogen training course, to post permit and notices to performers, and making------------------------------

violations of the ordinance subject to civil fines and criminal charges?

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

J Accelerating Traffic Relief, Job Creation. To advance Los Angeles 136	yes-*o

County's traffic relief, economic/job growth by accelerating light rail/----------------------------

subway construction and airport connections, within five years, not 137	no->o

twenty; funding countywide freeway, bridge, safety and traffic flow---------------------------------------

improvements; fixing potholes; keeping senior, student, disabled fares low; Shall Los Angeles County’s
voter-approved one-half cent traffic relief sales tax continue without increase for another 30 years or until
voters decide to end it, with independent audits and keeping funds local?

CITY

EL MONTE CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

HThe El Monte Sugar Sweetened Beverage Business License Fee Measure.

To offset budget cuts and maintain City general fund services, shall an
ordinance be adopted implementing a business license fee of one (1) cent
per fluid ounce of sugar sweetened beverage served/provided/traded by businesses
in the City?

142

143

YIS^O

N0-*O

» ADVISORY VOTE ONLY: If the Sugary Sweetened Beverage License Fee ballot measure passes on November 6, 2012, the ^ new tax revenues should be used primarily to pay for the following public services: police and fire emergency services; parks and	146 YES->o
	147 uomo
recreation programs including new sports fields; health and wellness programs citizens; and other projects to prevent and treat diabetes and childhood obesity.	tor children and senior
_ El Monte Fairness For Mobilehome Owners Ordinance Shall t the ordinance adopted by the voters in April 1990 be repealed ■ in order to allow the City Council to investigate the reasonableness of rent charged to mobilehome owners and if appropriate, consider the regulation of proposed mobilehome park rent increases in the future?	149 YES^O
	150 no-K)
	

END OF BALLOT

06-009E

N LA 134-011

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

If approved, Measure “H” will establish a business license fee that will be
imposed on each El Monte business that serves, provides or trades sugar
sweetened beverages at a rate of one (1) cent per fluid ounce of such sugar
sweetened beverages served, provided or traded by the business during the year.

Proponents of the business license fee believe its imposition will result in the
reduced consumption of sugar sweetened beverages, which in turn will help
reduce incidences of obesity and the various related health problems and
associated medical costs that come with obesity. Opponents question whether the
fee will result in reduced incidences of obesity and further express concern over
the fees possible economic impact on businesses and consumers.

As used in the measure, “sugar sweetened beverage” means any nonalcoholic
beverage, whether or not carbonated, which contains added caloric sweetener,

e.g. non-diet soda drinks. “Sugary sweetened beverage” does not include
Pedialyte, Ensure, Lucerne and Pediasure, or other similar nutritional
supplement drinks or rehydration beverages for children and/or seniors.

It is also estimated by City staff that the business license fee will generate
between $3.5 to $7 million in general tax revenues for the City of El Monte
(“City”) which the City could use to address fiscal challenges brought about by
the elimination of Redevelopment and other adverse economic conditions.

The business license fee is a general tax under Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution because the proceeds of the tax may be used for any

governmental/municipal purpose, including but not limited to park and street
maintenance, recreational programs, the restoration of emergency reserves and
public safety and emergency response services. Because the business license fee
is a general tax it may be approved by a simple majority of those who vote at the
City’s upcoming Special Municipal Election of November 6, 2012.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905415-1

N LA 134-032

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H (Continued)

If approved by the voters, the City will enact an ordinance implementing the
business license fee.

Voting “YES” for Measure H means:	The voter wants a business license fee to be imposed on City businesses in the amount of one (1) cent per fluid ounce of sugar sweetened beverage served, provided, or traded.
Voting “NO” for Measure H means:	The voter does not want a business license fee to be imposed on City businesses in the amount of one (1) cent per fluid ounce of sugar sweetened beverage served, provided, or traded.

RICK R. OLIVAREZ, City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure H. If you desire a copy
of the ordinance, please call the City Clerk’s office at (626) 580-2016 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you.

PR-905415-2

N LA 134-033

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

Measure H is a unique proposal to raise needed revenue and improve public
health through an increase in the business license fee for businesses that sell
sugary drinks. In a recent study of 400 cities in California, El Monte ranked 9th
in childhood obesity. To address this obesity epidemic in El Monte and to
maintain basic city services, we are asking you to consider imposing a 1 penny per
ounce fee on business licenses.

A YES Vote on Measure H will:

-Preserve fire and police services that keep our neighborhoods safe.

-Fund nutritional programs for our schools to teach children about healthy
choices.

-Support after school activities that keep children out of gangs.

-Improve parks and sports fields for the community.

Over the last few years, El Monte voters have chosen a new direction for our City
by electing new leaders to manage our government. In 2012, the City Council
took the unprecedented step of cutting its pay by 15%, employees gave up pay
increases, department spending was reduced by 6.5% and some employees took
pay cuts. These cuts, including chronic revenue shortfalls, have resulted in a
workforce reduction of 120 full-time employees. Our City is doing more for less,
but there are significant challenges looming.

Measure H will help stabilize our budget, provide improved community services
for families, preserve public safety services and make our city healthier. Out of
state corporations are going to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to
mislead local families on this important issue. They want to avoid paying their
fair share and they don’t care about the safety and health of El Monte’s
neighborhoods. The City Council is trying to get ahead of these challenges.
Please join us in voting YES on Measure H.

ANDRE QUINTERO
Mayor/Prosecutor/Father

NORMA EDITH GARCIA
College Trustee/Mother

VERNA DE LOS REYES
Mother

DR. BETZY SALCEDO, M.D.

Medical Doctor

ADAM CARRANZA
School Trustee

PR-905415-3

N LA 134-034

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

Measure H proponents want you to believe that a new beverage tax will help
solve El Monte’s budget problems. BUT the money goes to the genera) fund
where it can be used for anything the politicians choose.

The Facts:

-	The City need not spend the money as promised. Read the fine print and you
see that the “...fee imposed by Section 5.10.020 shall be deposited in the
City’s general fund and shall be available for any lawful municipal purpose.”

-	El Monte residents will end up paying taxes on hundreds of grocery products
like sodas, aguas frescas, bubble teas, sweetened teas, sports drinks, and
energy drinks.

-	With gas and food costs on the rise, there could not be a worse time to ask
families to pay more.

-	El Monte’s small business owners will suffer. People will avoid the tax by going
to nearby cities to buy all of their groceries.

-	Taxes don’t teach children how to be healthy - they just make government
bigger.

Instead of a new beverage tax, the City should fix its own problems and leave our
grocery budget alone. We’ve seen it before - new taxes like Measure H will just
encourage politicians to tax us every time they can’t balance their books.

The people of El Monte shouldn’t have to pay for the City’s pet projects and
wasteful spending habits.

Vote No On Measure H. Visit: NoOnMeasureH.com

ERICA HADJIS
Co-Owner, El Sombrero

LISA CASTRUITA
Co-Owner, El Sombrero

ARTHUR MEIER JR.

Owner, Art’s Burgers

ARTHUR GEORGE BARRIOS
Former El Monte City Council Member

BLANCA GONZALEZ
Owner, Pinata World

PR-905415-4

N LA 134-035

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

Measure H: Too Expensive For El Monte

El Monte’s politicians are trying to make up for years of overspending by taxing
beverages like sports drinks, ice teas, bubble teas, horchata, and agua fresca. A
tax on groceries is the wrong way to balance the city’s budget.

This is a money grab that has nothing to do with the health of our community. El
Monte residents already pay a sales tax of 9.25% - a higher rate than neighboring
cities. And there’s nothing to stop the politicians from trying to increase the tax
every time the city runs low on money.

Vote “NO” on “H” because:

-	Not a single dollar is dedicated to fight obesity. Measure H is just an attempt
by the politicians to avoid responsibility for their budget mess.

-	Taxes don’t make people healthier. The smart way to curb obesity is through
education and promoting balanced diets.

-	Measure H will force El Monte residents to shop for groceries in nearby cities,
making it even harder for local businesses to keep their doors open.

-	Grocery prices are on the rise, we don’t need to pay any more for fruit juice
drinks, sodas, sports drinks, horchata and bubble tea.

Don’t be fooled. Measure H is a bad deal for El Monte.

Get more information at www.NoOnMeasureH.com.

ERICA HADJIS
Co-Owner, El Sombrero

LISA CASTRUITA
Co-Owner, El Sombrero

ARTHUR MEIER JR.

Owner, Art’s Burgers

ARTHUR GEORGE BARRIOS
Former El Monte City Council Member

BLANCA GONZALEZ
Owner, Pinata World

PR-905415-5

N LA 134-036

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

We have great confidence in the collective wisdom of the voters of El Monte to
make an informed decision. El Monte voters chose new members of the City
Council to better manage the City’s finances and this revenue option gives the
City an opportunity to fund community priorities.

So what are the budget facts? We know that Measure GG, the half-cent sales tax,
will sunset in April 2014 and leave the City with fewer choices. If we adjust for
inflation, the City is spending less in each of the last three years than it did in the
previous 9 years. The City is doing more for less. Opponents want you to believe
that this City is overspending, but the facts do not support such a claim.

We also know that opponents will spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to
defeat Measure H in El Monte. They spend more than $500 million dollars per
year advertising products to our children that have no nutritional value. They
fear that a business license fee on sugary drinks will result in less consumption of
their products which impacts their bottom line. Supporters of Measure H will not
spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to try to convince you to vote for
Measure H.

If we vote YES on Measure H, we will generate a local revenue stream to
provide City services in our community that our children and families deserve.
The future of El Monte is in your hands.

ANDRE QUINTERO
Mayor/Prosecutor/Father

JOAN HOLTZ
Retired Teacher/Mother

MICHAEL J. GOMEZ
Homeowner

JAQUELINE V. MORALES
Business Woman/Mother

CARROLL A. LEESE
Retired/Mother

PR-905415-6

N LA 134-037