

<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE A

COUNTY OF MARIN
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

This Measure, if approved by a two-thirds majority of
the electors voting thereon, would authorize the enacting
of a one-quarter of one percent transactions (sales) and use
tax, automatically expiring in nine years, unless extended
by the voters, to preserve quality of life and maintain open
space, parks, and farmland, with funds that cannot be
taken by the State. The measure also includes an Expendi-
ture Plan, which governs how the funds raised by the sales
tax can be spent. Since this is a special purpose tax,
monies collected will be placed in a special fund and can
be spent only for the purposes set out in the Measure and
the Expenditure Plan. The Measure requires the formation
of a Community Oversight Committee whose responsibil-
ities shall be to review Plan expenditures on an annual
basis to ensure they conform to the Expenditure Plan and
oversee an annual audit and prepare an annual report
describing how funds were spent. The Measure also
requires that the County Department of Finance prepare
annual reports for the Board of Supervisors stating the
amount of money collected, the amount spent that year,
and the status of any projects funded by the tax. <impartialend>



<impartialsigs> s/JACK F. GOVI
Acting County Counsel <impartialsigsend>



<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Measure A will protect the open space, parks and farmland
that are essential to making Marin County an extraordinary
and healthy place to live, work and play. Funding shortfalls
and dwindling resources have led to the deterioration of
county parks and preserves, and placed unprotected natur-
al places and farmland at risk. Without this essential fund-
ing, there will be further reductions in services, access to
parks, and protection of our natural resources.

Measure A will:

•	Protect streams, baylands, natural areas and
wildlife habitat

•	Manage vegetation to preserve biodiversity and
reduce wildfire risk

•	Protect water quality by managing and protecting
the land around lakes, streams, lagoons and bay-
lands

•	Protect and preserve Marin County farms and
ranches

•	Improve public access and recreational opportu-
nities by maintaining and enhancing walking,
hiking, biking and equestrian trails

Everyone will benefit. Measure A will maintain and en-
hance parks and open space in every city and community
in Marin County, including repairing and replacing deteri-
orating park facilities at Stafford Lake, Mclnnis Park,
McNears Beach and Paradise Beach.

Fiscal accountability will be ensured:

•	Every penny will stay in Marin; funds cannot be
taken away by the state government

•	Measure A requires independent citizens’ over-
sight, mandatory financial audits and annual
reports

•	Funds cannot be spent on administrator salaries
or pensions

Under Measure A, visitors from outside Marin County
will pay their fair share to fund the park and open space
services they enjoy.

Measure A will help protect Marin’s rolling hills, shore-
lines, wetlands, natural lands, forests and family farms
throughout the county. It has taken decades to build the
system of parks, open space and protected farmland we
have today. These lands are a living legacy and it’s essen-
tial that we renew our investment in them.

We need to act now. Vote YES on Measure A. <favorend>





<favorsigs> s/SUSAN STOMPE
President, Marin Conservation League
s/LYNN GIACOMINI STRAY
Vice-President and Co-Founder,

Point Reyes Farmstead Cheese
s/JASON WEBER
Interim Fire Chief, Marin County Fire Department
s/SUE HOLLAND
Seventh-grade science teacher at Miller Creek Middle
School and 2005 Marin County Teacher of the Year
s/LARRY MEREDITH, Ph.D.

Director, Marin County Department of Health
& Human Services <favorsigsend>





<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE A

“$54 million hidden by State Parks and Recreation in
Secret Accounts”. This game of hide and seek of public
funds recalls a Civil War era children’s game popular
when Marin County was founded called “Button, button:
who’s got the button?”.

YOU, the voter, ‘got the button’.

You got the vote to put an end to governmental cronyism
and wasteful taxing and spending.

Just ask yourself, ‘How does the public benefit ?’

There is no public access to ranch lands. ‘Protected’
parcels are taken off the tax rolls and many are of margin-
al importance. These are just pay-offs to key supporters.
With the 2nd smallest county in California (after SF), and
one of the most bloated county budgets in the state, they
ask for more?

More Waste,

More Consultants,

More Favoritism?

With most of the county in Open Space, Federal and State
parks, or underwater, why vote for phantom spending
objectives that only benefit the well-connected while
ignoring the elderly, the ill and the needy?

Vote ‘NO’ on Measure ‘A’ <rebutfavorend>





<rebutfavorsigs> s/ALEX EASTON-BROWN <rebutfavorsigsend>





<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Increasing the Marin County Sales Tax by 1/4% will raise
about $10 million a year for 10 years without targeting any
specific projects or lands to be acquired. This will be
money ‘looking for ways to be spent’ at a time when crit-
ical services to the ill, the elderly and the poor are being
cut by the supervisors.

Special interests close to the supervisors, including bicy-
clist and certain ranchers, will be lining up to fund their
special projects. Not content to be continuing recipients of
taxpayer money through the supervisors’ Discretionary
Fund, a slush fund criticized by the Marin civil grand jury
as “political patronage” designed to buy political favor,
these special interests now want to feed off of a regressive
sales tax hike that hits the poor the hardest.

Marin County already pays 33 parks department employ-
ees over $3.8 million which comes to about $116,000 per
employee. With approximately 80% of Marin already pro-
tected in some way, how much more acreage do 250,000
people really need?

At a time when Marin County faces a serious pension cri-
sis, when the supervisors spend on average a quarter mil-
lion dollars on each one of themselves for what is essen-
tially a part-time job, isn’t it time they start to live within
their means and get their priorities straight?

Getting back to good governance, let’s get our streets and
roads back in shape, our child care programs and home
care for the elderly adequately funded. It’s our money!
Let’s stop feeding the supervisors insatiable appetite for
dubious projects of questionable value, and put our money
to work addressing our communities’ real needs. 

Please vote “NO” on Measure A. <againstend>





<againstsigs> s/ALEX EASTON-BROWN
s/BASIA CRANE
s/REGINA CAREY
s/PLACIDO SALAZAR <againstsigsend>





<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE A

The opposition argument is full of misstatements and half-
truths. Don’t be misled.

Funding shortfalls have forced Marin County to reduce
staff, cut hours at park facilities and reduce regular mainte-
nance, resulting in a backlog of urgent and needed repairs.
Essential park and open space resources and services are
severely underfunded.

Here are the facts about Measure A:

•	Measure A funds will be locally controlled. The
State can’t take away any funds. Every penny will
stay right here in Marin to:

o Protect streams, baylands, natural areas and
wildlife habitat
o Manage vegetation to preserve biodiversity
and reduce wildfire risk
o Protect open space preserves
o Protect and preserve Marin County farms and
ranches

o Maintain and enhance walking, hiking, biking
and equestrian trails

•	Independent citizens’ oversight will ensure Mea-
sure A funds are spent as promised. Financial
audits and annual reports are mandatory.

•	Funds will directly benefit Marin parks, open
space and farmland. No Measure A funds will be
spent on administrator salaries or pensions.

•	Measure A is based on a detailed, public plan that
describes the specific programs and projects that
will be funded. We will know exactly how Measure
A funds will be spent. View the plan at:

http: //vesmarinparksopenspace .com/ about/measure-
a-expenditure-plan/

Plus, visitors from outside Marin County will pay their fair
share under Measure A.

If we wait, repairing our parks will only become more and
more expensive. Now is the time to vote YES on Measure
A to protect our Marin parks, open space and farmland. <rebutagainstend>


<rebutagainstsigs> www.yesmarinparksopenspace.org
s/AL BORO
Former Mayor, City of San Rafael
THE SIERRA CLUB by
s/LOUIS NUYENS, Chair, Marin Group
s/CRIS CHATER
Executive Director, Senior Access
MARIN AUDUBON SOCIETY by
s/BARBARA SALZMAN, President
MARIN AGRICULTURAL LAND TRUST, by
s/ROBERT BERNER, Executive Director <rebutagainstsigsend>






<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

ORDINANCE NO. 3586
AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF MARIN, STATE
OF CALIFORNIA, IMPOSING A ONE-QUARTER OF
ONE PERCENT RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE
TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD
OF EQUALIZATION FOR PARKS, OPEN SPACE, AND
FARMLAND PRESERVATION

THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY
OF MARIN ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. TITLE.

This Ordinance shall be known as the Marin Parks, Open
Space, and Farmland Preservation Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance. The County of Marin hereinafter
shall be called “County.” This Ordinance shall be applica-
ble in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
County.

SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE: OPERATIVE
DATE: ADMINISTRATION.

A.	This Ordinance shall become effective upon its
approval by a two-thirds majority of the electors
voting on the measure.

B.	This Ordinance shall become operative on April 1,
2013 (“Operative Date”); provided, however, that
the Marin Parks, Open Space, and Farmland Preser-
vation Expenditure Plan (“Expenditure Plan”),
attached hereto as Exhibit “A,” shall become oper-
ative on the effective date of this Ordinance.

C.	Prior to January 1, 2013, the Marin County Open
Space District (“District”) shall enter into an agree-
ment with the County for the administration of
Open Space program funding sections of the Ex-
penditure Plan.

SECTION 3. PURPOSE.

This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accor-
dance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing
with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code and Section 7285.5 of Part 1.7
of Division 2 which authorizes the County to adopt
this tax Ordinance which shall be operative if two-
thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the
Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with
the requirements and limitations contained in Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor
that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least pos-
sible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collect-
ing the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be, to
the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time,
minimize the burden of record keeping upon per-
sons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
Ordinance.

SECTION 4. EXPENDITURE PLAN: LIMITATION
OF EXPENDITURES: FISCAL OVERSIGHT.

Pursuant to the requirements of Government Code
§50075.1, (1) the Expenditure Plan constitutes the state-
ment of the specific purposes for which the revenue gen-
erated by this Ordinance may be expended, (2) the expen-
diture of the revenue generated by this Ordinance shall be
restricted to the purposes stated in Exhibit “A,” (3) the
revenue generated by this Ordinance shall be deposited
into the “Parks, Open Space, and Farmland Preservation
Special Tax Account,” and (4) the County Department of
Finance shall prepare and file with the Board of Super-
visors reports meeting the requirements of Government
Code §50075.3.

SECTION 5. CONTRACT WITH STATE.

Prior to the Operative Date, the County shall contract with
the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this trans-
actions and use tax Ordinance; provided, that if the County
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equal-
ization prior to the Operative Date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execu-
tion of such a contract.

SECTION 6. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at
retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County at
the rate of one quarter of one per cent (0.25%) of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible per-
sonal property sold at retail in said territory on and after
the operative date of this Ordinance.

SECTION 7. PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are con-
summated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer
or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of busi-
ness, the place or places at which the retail sales are con-
summated shall be determined under rules and regulations

to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

SECTION 8. USE TAX RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the County of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the oper-
ative date of this Ordinance for storage, use or other con-
sumption in said territory at the rate of one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of
the place to which delivery is made.

SECTION 9. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF
STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except
insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of
the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are here-
by adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though
fully set forth herein.

SECTION 10. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF
STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this
County shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of
the State Controller, State Treasurer, State
Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State
of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this County or
any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather
than by or against the State Board of Equaliza-
tion, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by
the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangi-
ble personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the state under the said pro-
vision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sen-
tence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828
of the Revenue and Taxation Code,

a.	The word “County” shall be substituted for
the word “State” in the phrase “retailer en-
gaged in business in this State” in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

SECTION 11. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Sec-
tion 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an addition-
al transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
Ordinance.

SECTION 12. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any
sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of Califor-
nia or by any city, city and county, or county pur-
suant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-admin-
istered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of air-
craft to be used or consumed principally outside
the County in which the sale is made and direct-
ly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under
the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County
which is shipped to a point outside the County,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment
to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the
County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than com-
mercial vehicles) subject to registration pur-
suant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Sec-
tion 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and un-
documented vessels registered under Divi-
sion 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of
the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-
of-County address and by a declaration un-
der penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by reg-
istration to a place of business out-of-
County and declaration under penalty of per-
jury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the

seller is obligated to furnish the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period
of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible person-
al property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the con-
tract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by

this Ordinance, the storage, use or other consump-
tion in this County of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any
state-administered transactions and use tax
Ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased
by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property for hire or compensation under a cer-
tificate of public convenience and necessity is-
sued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions pro-
vided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right
or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is a continuing pur-
chase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the prop-
erty for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs 3. and 4. of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption,
or possession of, or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a con-
tract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the uncon-
ditional right to terminate the contract or lease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exer-
cised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph 7, a retailer
engaged in business in the County shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of

tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the County or
participates within the County in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited
to, soliciting or receiving the order, either di-
rectly or indirectly, at a place of business of the
retailer in the County or through any represen-
tative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the County under the authority of the
retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the County”
shall also include any retailer of any of the fol-
lowing: vehicles subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented ves-
sels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a County
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other con-
sumption of which is subject to the use tax.
SECTION 13. USE OF PROCEEDS.

The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this ordinance shall
be used solely for the projects and purpose set forth in the
Expenditure Plan attached as “Exhibit A” and for the
administration thereof.

SECTION 14. AMENDMENTS.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
Ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
Ordinance.

SECTION 15. ENJOINING COLLECTION
FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equi-
table process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or the County, or against any
officer of the State or the County, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION 16. SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application there-
of to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
remainder of the Ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.

SECTION 17. PUBLICATION.

Within thirty (30) days of its passage, this ordinance shall
be published with the names of the supervisors voting for
and against the same in the MARIN INDEPENDENT
JOURNAL, a newspaper of general circulation published
in the County of Marin.

SECTION 18. TERMINATION DATE.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Ordinance
shall expire nine years from the operative date of this
Ordinance.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the
Board of Supervisors of the County of Marin held on this
7th day of August, 2012, by the following vote: 


EXHIBIT A

PARKS, OPEN SPACE, AND FARMLAND
PRESERVATION EXPENDITURE PLAN

A.	Summary

It is proposed that the voters in Marin County be present-
ed in November 2012, the opportunity to vote to support
the preservation of Marin County parks, open space pre-
serves, and farmland. The Parks, Open Space, and Farm-
land Preservation one-fourth-cent (1/4 cent) sales tax
(“Measure”) is estimated, at current collection levels, to
generate approximately $10,000,000 per year. This level
of revenue may change during the life of the Measure due
to the variability in annual receipts. All revenue projec-
tions described below are approximate and will be subject
to changes in annual receipts.

This Expenditure Plan (“Plan”) outlines three programs
for spending the sales tax proceeds. In Part B of the Plan,
each program is described by its funding allocation, and
types of projects and activities that the funding would sup-
port. Part C of the Plan contains administrative provisions,
including a Community Oversight Committee and public
process for determining annual expenditures.

B.	Program Descriptions

1.	Parks and Open Space Program (65%)

The purpose of this Program is to protect or restore
natural resources, maintain existing county parks
and open space preserves, and preserve natural
lands. Sixty five percent (65%) of revenues gener-
ated annually by this Measure shall be made avail-
able for the following uses.

a. Protect or Restore Natural Resources and Main-
tain Existing Countv Parks and Open Space
Preserves.

The purpose of this element is to protect or
restore natural resources, and maintain our
existing county parks and open space preserves.
Eighty percent (80%) of the Parks and Open
Space Program’s annual amount shall be used
for the following purposes.

i.	Protect and restore wetlands along
Marin’s coastline and bay shoreline to
protect wildlife habitat, including habi-
tat for shorebirds, waterfowl, and endan-
gered wildlife such as the California
clapper rail and salt marsh harvest
mouse.

ii.	Protect water quality and fish habitat by
reducing erosion and sedimentation,
and/or engaging in restoration projects
in streams and creeks within county
parks and preserves, including, but not
limited to, Coyote Creek, Miller Creek,
Lagunitas Creek, Corte Madera Creek,
Rush Creek, Novato Creek, and Las
Gallinas Creek.

iii.	Reduce the risk of wildfire, enhance bio-
diversity, and control populations of
invasive, non-native weeds in communities throughout Marin in close consulta-
tion with city, town, and county fire dis-
tricts and agencies, in accordance with
the Marin County Parks Vegetation and
Biodiversity Management Plan.

iv.	Repair, maintain, and/or replace deterio-
rating facilities and infrastructure in
open space preserves that orient and
inform visitors, enable public access,
protect natural resources, enhance safety
and prevent slope instability and flood-
ing affecting downstream areas. Facili-
ties and infrastructure include, but are
not limited to, signs, gates, fences, flood
prevention and drainage improvements,
slope stability improvements, culverts,
retaining walls, and bridges.

v.	Repair, maintain, and/or replace deterio-
rating recreation facilities and infrastruc-
ture in county parks and on county
regional pathways. Facilities and infra-
structure include, but are not limited to,
children’s playgrounds, bathrooms,
water fountains, water lines, picnic areas
and tables, the swimming pool at
McNears Beach Park, signs, sea walls,
kayak and canoe launches, fishing piers,
paved multiuse pathways such as Mill
Valley/Sausalito bike path and Corte
Madera Creek bike path, tennis courts,
basketball courts, the skate park at John
F. Mclnnis Park, landscape plantings,
parking lots, irrigation systems, and ball
fields.

vi.	Implement trail projects to protect water
quality, sensitive habitats and natural
areas (including habitat for rare and en-
dangered species); reduce erosion; avoid
unstable slopes; improve trail safety and
sustainability; improve trail enjoyment
and recreation opportunities; and reduce
maintenance costs, in accordance with
the Marin County Parks Road and Trail
Management Plan. Project types may in-
clude, but are not limited to, rerouting
existing trails; decommissioning (clos-
ing) unauthorized and redundant trails
with concurrent habitat restoration; con-
verting redundant or unnecessary fire
roads to trails (in consultation with
Marin fire agencies); building new or
modifying existing trails when neces-
sary to improve trail safety and/or
achieve connections to other trails or
destinations; and entering into arrange-
ments with private land owners for
essential trail connections.

vii.	Augment current visitor services for
parks and open space preserves - via

rangers, programming, and partnerships
- to protect natural resources; support
visitor safety and enjoyment; and sup-
port volunteerism and environmental
education,

b.	Preserve Natural Lands

The purpose of this element is to enable fulfill-
ment of the Marin County Parks Strategic Plan
goals related to the permanent preservation of
land for public open space, community separa-
tors, wildlife corridors, greenbelts, and habitat.
Twenty percent (20%) of the Parks and Open
Space Program’s annual amount shall be used
for the following purposes; however, the annual
amount or its balance may be accumulated, car-
ried over, and accrued for expenditure in future
years, not to exceed ten (10) years after the ter-
mination date of the sales tax increase.

i. Purchase land or conservation easements
from willing sellers for the purposes of
permanently protecting and/or restoring
natural areas, streams, bay lands, and
native ecosystems with high natural
resource values.

ii.	To the extent possible, these funds would
be used to leverage matching funds from
public and private partners.

2.	Farmland Preservation Program (20%)

The purpose of this Program is to protect Marin
County farmland at risk of subdivision and develop-
ment and preserve Marin’s working farms and
ranches. Twenty percent (20%) of revenues gener-
ated annually by this Measure shall be made avail-
able for the following uses.

a.	Purchase perpetual agricultural conservation
easements, and on land already encumbered
by agricultural conservation easements, pur-
chase additional real property interests, to
protect and permanently preserve Marin
County farms and ranches for productive
agricultural use through voluntary transac-
tions with landowners.

b.	Provide matching grants to qualified organi-
zations to support and facilitate the purchase
of perpetual agricultural conservation ease-
ments, and additional real property interests
on land already encumbered by an agricul-
tural conservation easement, through volun-
tary transactions with landowners.

c.	Provide matching grants to the Marin Re-
source Conservation District for the purpose
of assisting ranchers and farmers in enhanc-
ing the agricultural and natural resource val-
ues on easement-protected properties. Grants
for this purpose shall not exceed five percent
(5%) of the Farmland Preservation Pro-
gram’s annual amount.

d.	Provide matching grants to the entities holding easements acquired with program funds,
for the purpose of monitoring and enforcing
such easements. Grants for this purpose shall
not exceed five percent (5%) of the Farmland
Preservation Program’s annual amount.

3.	City, Town, and Applicable Special District
Program (15%)

The purpose of this Program is to assist Marin’s
municipalities and applicable special districts in
managing their parks, open space preserves, recre-
ation programs, and vegetation to promote biodiver-
sity and reduce wildfire risk. Fifteen percent (15%)
of the revenues generated annually by this Measure
shall be made available for the following uses.

a.	Provide grants to cities, towns, and applica-
ble special districts (special districts that pro-
vide for parks, open space and/or recreation
in unincorporated areas), to maintain, restore,
and/or renovate existing parks, preserves,
and recreational facilities; to construct new
parks and recreational facilities or acquire
parklands; or to engage in vegetation man-
agement to reduce wildfire risk, promote bio-
diversity, or control invasive non-native
weeds on private, municipal, or district lands.

b.	Funds shall be available through a grant allo-
cation process that will be designed in con-
cert with the cities, towns, and applicable
special districts. The grant allocation process,
but not the individual projects, shall be sub-
ject to approval by the Marin County Board
of Supervisors. This program is expected to
generate over $13,500,000 over the life of the
Measure. This program’s annual amount, or
its balance, may be accumulated, carried
over, and accrued for expenditure in future
years, not to exceed ten (10) years after the
termination date of the sales tax increase.

C.	Administrative Provisions

1. Community Oversight Committee

a.	A Community Oversight Committee shall be
created by the Marin County Board of Super-
visors within six months of the effective date
of the ordinance levying the sales tax
increase. The responsibilities of this commit-
tee shall be to review Plan expenditures on an
annual basis to ensure they conform with the
Plan, and oversee an annual audit and pre-
pare an annual report describing how funds
were spent.

b.	Members of the committee shall be appoint-
ed by the Board. The role of the committee
shall be to advise the Board and staff on these
matters. The committee shall report to the
Director and General Manager of Marin
County Parks.

c.	Members of the Community Oversight Com-
mittee shall be county residents who are nei-
ther elected officials of any government, nor

employees from any agency or organization
that either oversees or benefits from the pro-
ceeds of the sales tax. The committee shall
consist of seven at-large members.

d.	The Board shall approve bylaws related to
the conduct of committee meetings and busi-
ness.

e.	Meetings of the committee shall be open to
the public and shall be held in compliance
with the Ralph M. Brown Act, California’s
open meeting law.

f.	The committee shall dissolve after all rev-
enue collected from this Measure is expend-
ed and a final report is submitted.

2. Implementation Requirements

Implementation of the plan shall be guided by the
following procedures to ensure that the revenue
generated by the Measure is spent in the most effi-
cient and effective manner possible, consistent with
serving the public interest in Marin County, and the
desires of the voters of Marin County.

a.	The Marin County Parks and Open Space
Commission shall conduct a public meeting
annually to gain public input on selection of
projects to expend the sales tax revenues, as
part of County’s annual budget development
process.

b.	The County of Marin is charged with the fi-
duciary duty to administer sales tax proceeds
in accordance with applicable laws. Dis-
bursement of funds as grants shall be subject
to terms and conditions that may include, but
are not limited to, the County’s right to 1)
require grantees to enter into funding agree-
ments with the County; 2) require matching
funds; and 3) audit a grantee’s use of tax pro-
ceeds.

c.	Actual revenues generated by the Measure
may be higher or lower than estimates in this
Plan due to variability in annual tax receipts.
County shall annually estimate revenue from
the Measure.

d.	County may accumulate revenue over multi-
ple years so that sufficient funding is avail-
able for larger and long-term projects. All
interest income shall be used for the purpos-
es identified in this Plan, and shall accrue
proportionately to the programs identified in
this Plan. Ten (10) years after the termination
date of the sales tax increase, unused funds
and accrued interest from the Farmland Pres-
ervation Program and the City, Town, and
Applicable Special District Program shall be
available for any purpose consistent with this
Plan, subject to approval by the Board of
Supervisors.

e.	Sales tax proceeds are intended to augment
annual County of Marin General Fund sup-

CMA-9

port for Marin County Parks. Any reduction
in the annual net county costs below the
2012-13 allocation to Marin County Parks
from the General Fund will be within the
range of reductions being required from
other county departments.

f.	To enhance local workforce development
and employment opportunities, and involve
youth and young adults in caring for our nat-
ural resources, the county will reach out to
local community based, not-for-profit, and/or
for profit businesses and consider these enti-
ties for the provision of new contracted ser-
vices funded by this measure.

g.	No more than five percent (5%) of the Parks
and Open Space Program’s annual amount
may be used for administrative expenses by
the county.

h.	No more than five percent (5%) of the Farm-
land Preservation Program’s annual amount
may be used for administrative expenses by
the county. 

AYES:	SUPERVISORS	Katie	Rice,	Susan	L.	Adams,

Judy Arnold, Kathrin Sears,
Steve Kinsey

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT: NONE

s/STEVE KINSEY
PRESIDENT, BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

ATTEST:

s/MATTHEW HYMEL
CLERK <fullend>