002

DEAN C. LOGAN

Los Angeles County

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 Imperial Highway
Norwalk, CA 90650

Official
Sample Ballot

and Voting Instructions

General	El	lecti	ion
Tuesday, November 6, 2012			

Polls open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.

Mark your choices in this booklet and
TAKE IT WITH YOUXo your voting location

Find your Polling Place

On the back cover of this booklet
On the web www.lavote.net

By calling (800) 815-2666 or (562) 466-1323

OR see back cover to Vote By Mail

www.lavote.net

PAGE

COUNTY MEASURES

B Shall an ordinance be adopted requiring producers of adult films to obtain 132 yes-mo

a County public health permit, to require adult film performers to use--------------------------------

condoms while engaged in sex acts, to provide proof of blood borne 133	N0-*O

pathogen training course, to post permit and notices to performers, and making------------------------------

violations of the ordinance subject to civil fines and criminal charges?

LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

J Accelerating Traffic Relief, Job Creation. To advance Los Angeles 136	YES-bO

County's traffic relief, economic/job growth by accelerating light rail/---------------------------

subway construction and airport connections, within five years, not 137	NO-bO

twenty; funding countywide freeway, bridge, safety and traffic flow--------------------------------------

improvements; fixing potholes; keeping senior, student, disabled fares low; Shall Los Angeles County's
voter-approved one-half cent traffic relief sales tax continue without increase for another 30 years or until
voters decide to end it, with independent audits and keeping funds local?

SCHOOL

WESTSIDE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

..To increase student computer /technology access; repair, equip and yu U modernize elementary classrooms /school facilities; replace outdated * * ■ ■ heating /air conditioning; and reduce overall borrowing costs, shall $18,510,000 of Westside Union School District bonds, previously approved by voters in November 2008, be reauthorized through issuance of new bonds, w authorized District debt, interest rates below legal limits, independent citizen o administrator salaries, and all funds spent locally and not taken by the State?	o  t  M  U1  >■  CM
	143 no-k)
	th no increase in total versight, no money for
To maintain academic programs including science, math, yy D reading, writing, arts and music, fund computer technology, and * * * help avoid increased class sizes with funds that cannot be taken by the State and spent elsewhere, shall Westside Union School District	146 YES^o
	o  t  o
levy a $96.00 parcel tax tor four years, so long as an independent citizens’ oversight committee is required, all funds are spent on neighborhood schools, and no money is used for administrative salaries?	

CONTINUE VOTING ON NEXT PAGE jggs

06-069E

N LA 002-011

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE WP

INTRODUCTION

To maintain academic programs including science, math, reading, writing, arts
and music, fund computer technology, and help avoid increased class sizes with
funds that cannot be taken by the State and spent elsewhere, shall Westside
Union School District levy a $96.00 parcel tax for four years, so long as an
independent citizens’ oversight committee is required, all funds are spent on
neighborhood schools, and no money is used for administrative salaries?

PURPOSES

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to aid in
preserving and improving academic programs in our schools, the Westside Union
School District proposes to levy and collect a qualified special parcel tax for a
period of four years, commencing with fiscal year 2013-14, in the amount of
$96.00 per parcel and to implement accountability measures to provide oversight
and accountability to ensure that funds are used to:

-	Fund core academic programs such as science, math, technology, reading,
writing, arts and music;

-	Help avoid future class size increases in all grades;

-	Reduce the impact of deep State budget cuts by providing a stable local
funding source that cannot be taken away by the State or other school
districts; and

-	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District
accountability by providing for oversight and independent financial audits of
revenues and expenditures.

The Board of Trustees will utilize parcel tax proceeds for the purposes listed
above, unless the Board of Trustees determines in any given year that changes in
student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding
make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the parcel tax revenues will
be used only for the lawful educational purposes.

TAX RATE AND DURATION

The qualified special tax shall be levied in an equal amount against each parcel
of taxable real property in the District in the amount of $96.00 per parcel for four
years, commencing with fiscal year 2013-14. In no event shall the qualified
special tax exceed $96.00 per parcel per year.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 002-043

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE WP (Continued)

PROCEDURES

Levy by County. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the special tax of
$96.00 per parcel shall become effective for a period of four years commencing
with fiscal year 2013-14, and be collected by the Los Angeles County Tax
Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to the same
penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.

Definition of Parcel. A parcel is defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the Los Angeles County Tax Collector, however,
with respect to any parcel that is classified by the Los Angeles County Assessor
as multi-family residential containing 2 to 4 units shall constitute 2 parcels, and
those containing 5 or more units shall constitute 5 parcels, for the purposes of
levying and collecting the special tax against such parcels, to the extent permitted
by law.

Exemptions. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes
will also be exempt from the qualified special tax.

Exclusive Procedures. The procedures described herein with respect to the
levy and collection of the special tax and exemptions, and any additional
procedures established by the Board of Trustees, shall be the exclusive claims
procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or
re-computation of the special parcel tax. Whether any particular claim is to be
resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in
coordination with the County as necessary. The District’s Board of Trustees may
adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems necessary or
convenient for the administration of the qualified special tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

Government Code Accountability. In accordance with the requirements of
California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following
accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the qualified special taxes
levied in accordance with this Measure:

-	the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes
identified above under the heading “PURPOSES,”

-	the proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific
purposes identified above under the heading “PURPOSES,”

-	a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the
education parcel tax must be deposited; and

N LA 002-044

(Continued on next page)

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE WP (Continued)

- the chief fiscal officer of the District shall file an annual written report with
the Board of Trustees of the District showing (1) the amount of funds
collected and expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (2)
the status of any projects, programs, or purposes identified above under the
heading “PURPOSES.”

Citizens’ Oversight Committee. In addition to the accountability measures
required by the Government Code, an independent Citizens’ Oversight
Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to advise the Board on
the expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are
spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The Citizens’ Oversight
Committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will
report on an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds have
been spent.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal binding to the District
because of the District’s adoption of an education parcel tax. However, if any
such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this education parcel tax, then
the amount of the education parcel tax will be reduced annually as necessary in
order to restore such State or Federal funding.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and
clause of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the
voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other
provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part
be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the ftillest extent
allowed by law.

PR-905421-3

N LA 002-045

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE WP

By John F. Krattli, County Counsel

Approval of Measure WP would authorize the Board of Trustees (“Board”) of
the Westside Union School District (“District”) to levy a special parcel tax
(“Tax”) of $96 per year, for four years, on each parcel of taxable real property
that receives a separate property tax bill in the District. For purposes of
determining the tax, parcels which are contiguous, owned solely for
owner-occupied, single family residence, and are identically owned, may be
treated as a single parcel by submitting an annual application to the District. Any
parcel classified by the Assessor as multi-family residential containing two to
four units shall constitute two parcels, and those containing five or more units
shall constitute five parcels for the purpose of collecting the Tax.

The Tax revenues shall only be applied for the purposes of funding core
academic programs such as science, math, technology, reading, writing, arts, and
music; avoiding increases in class size; and reducing the impact of budget cuts.

Ail property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be
exempt from the Tax. The proceeds of the Tax shall only be applied to the
specific purposes identified in the Measure and shall be deposited into a
separate, special account. An annual written report shall be made to the Board
showing the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the
Tax, and the status of any projects required or authorized to be funded from the
Tax. In addition, an independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee will be
appointed to ensure that the Tax proceeds are spent for their authorized
purposes and will report expenditures on an annual basis.

The Taxes levied under this Measure shall be collected by the Treasurer and Tax
Collector at the same time and manner, and subject to the same penalties, as
general ad valorem property taxes.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-905421-4

N LA 002-046

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE WP

Westside Union School District’s elementary and middle schools are our
community’s most important asset and number one priority. From higher
achieving students to greater community safety to improved housing values,
quality schools make a difference.

Today, without your help, this valuable community resource faces serious
financial cutbacks, including the risk of slashing the number of school days and
the further elimination of many essential academic programs.	*

Measure WP will provide our schools with a guaranteed source of critical local
dollars for academic programs that, by law, must be spent on our local schools
and CANNOT BE TAKEN BY THE STATE and spent elsewhere.

Measure WP will improve our children’s classrooms and schools by:

Maintaining and protecting academic programs including science, technology,
reading, writing, and math.

Supporting our high levels of student achievement.

Helping to prevent further increases in class sizes.

Increasing student access to technology and computers in the classroom.

Retaining highly qualified teachers and support staff.

Measure WP comes with strong TAXPAYER PROTECTIONS including:

Iron-clad restrictions that no funds can be used for administrator salaries,
benefits or pensions.

Annual review by an independent citizens’ oversight committee of all
expenditures.

Legally required annual audits of all spending.

Legal guarantees that all funds be spent locally and cannot be taken by the State
and used elsewhere.

Measure WP allows us to take the first step towards creating a local solution to
maintain and protect the quality of education in Westside schools. Having strong
schools helps protect housing values, creates a stronger local economy and leads
to safer neighborhoods.

Remember, these are our COMMUNITY’S schools. They benefit all citizens and
are a resource that we must protect.

(Continued on next page)

PR-905421-5

N LA 002-047

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE WP (Continued)

Please join us in voting YES on Measure WP!

JOAN SODERGREN

Board of Trustees, Vice President

JAMES P. BIDDLE

Past President of the Quartz Hill Town Council

JEFFREY KNITTEL

Deputy Sheriff, Los Angeles County

KATHY OWEN
Parent Volunteer

ANUSHA PARAMESVARAN

Realtor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-905421-6

N LA 002-048