PROPOSAL TO MODIFY MEASURE B SPECIAL TAX FOR THE NEWCASTLE

FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

Shall Measure B, which established a parcel tax for Newcastle FPD so it could provide fire
protection and rapid response services, be altered so that starting in Fiscal Year 2015-16 the
parcel tax shall be reduced from $146.46 per taxable parcel (with an additional charge for
structures starting at 3,000 square feet), to simply $30.00 per parcel (without any additional
charge for larger structures and without increases based on the consumer price index)?

YES

NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

This measure, if approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting thereon, would make amendments to a special
tax that was passed by the residents of the Newcastle
Fire Protection District (District) in March 2012. This
measure, as described by the proponents, would retain
the tax rate approved in March 2012 for the first three
years to generate tax revenue to fund a new fire station,
but would drop to a lesser amount in the fourth year and
thereafter.

This proposed special tax must be approved by two-
thirds of voters in the district, and if passed, would result
in keeping the voter-approved tax of $146.46 per taxable
parcel for the first three fiscal years {2012-13, 2013-14,
and 2014-15) in place. For this three-year period,
parcels with structures in excess of 3,000 square feet
would be assessed an additional $0.05 per square foot
for the structure area greater than 3,000 square feet.
However, after the first three years (beginning in fiscal
year 2015-16 and continuing thereafter), the special tax
would be $30 per taxable parcel. This measure
eliminates any cost-of-living increases that were
included in the March 2012 measure.

Finally, the measure, if approved, would have a process
by which a property owner who is assessed the special
tax could appeal a determination by the district
concerning the nature of the use of the property or the
calculation of the amount of the tax to the District

Article 13A of the California Constitution, passed by the
electorate in 1978 as Proposition 13, requires approval
by the electorate to levy special taxes. California Health
& Safety Code Section 13911 and Government Code
Sections 50075-50077.5 authorize a process to propose
and submit a special tax to the voters. These provisions
require accountability measures including a requirement
that the proceeds from the tax be placed into a special
account and that a report be prepared annually that
provides details on the amount of taxes collected in that
year and showing that the taxes were used solely for the
specific purposes for the tax.

A “Yes" vote is a vote to approve the measure to
amend the March 2012 special tax.

A “No” vote is a vote against this measure,
which would leave the March 2012 tax in place without
change.

This analysis is submitted by the Office of the County
Counsel of Placer County, pursuant to the requirements of
Section 9313 of the Elections Code of the State of
California.

Gerald O. Carden

County Counsel

By:	Brian R. Wirtz

Deputy County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure K. If you desire a copy of the Initiative Measure,
please call the Office of Elections at 530-886-5650 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. E.C. 9313

K1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

A vote for Measure K will sustain the Newcastle Fire
Protection District, build a new station or remodel the
existing station. Measure K will limit the tax burdens on
fixed income individuals.

Measure K is designed to amend Measure B which was
passed in March, 2012 by a special election that
increased your fire tax by 297% with indefinite, annual
3% increases. Every parcel in this district, improved or
unimproved will have an added tax of $146.46 annually.
Residents currently pay approximately $74 per parcel
annually (through Measure F passed in 1997), with
Measure B that amount would climb to approximately
$220.46, with no enhancement to services or response
times.

According to Placer County Code Enforcement, the fire
station has never been condemned as was stated in
Measure B. It has code violations that need to be
rectified.

Measure K will limit the 297% tax increase to a period of
three years, allowing for adequate funds to repair the
existing station or construct a new modest station.

During the three years Measure B will provide the district
with an additional $1 million in funding. At the end of the
three years an additional $30 will be added to the
existing $74 (Measure F) bringing the total fire tax to
approximately $104 per year. This is a 40% increase
from our current fire tax of approximately $74.

The blank check of Measure B will result in a station
being built that the district cannot afford to sustain over
time. We all support our firefighters, but with fire stations
and fire districts closing every day the stakes are
tremendously high. Your YES vote will ensure that the
fire district lives within its means and not make
dangerously, overly ambitious decisions that put them at
risk.

Vote YES on Measure K

Roger Wm Robinson, Resident (NFPD)

Wilma C. Powers, Resident
Ronald A, Harmon, Castle City Resident
Ronald J. Chiaratti, Retired Fireman, Resident
James R. Gruber, Rancher

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

It's time to separate fact from fiction.

Fact: Measure K provides inadequate revenue for the
Newcastle Fire Station to remain open. It raises less
than $900,000 in three years - not enough to build a
new, compliant fire station.

Fact: Measure K takes away modest pay raises and
health benefits for firefighters recently made possible by
Measure B. Once again, Newcastle will be faced with
high turnover rates and appalling treatment of
emergency responders risking lives to protect our
community.

Fact: Measure K asserts that the tax increases 3%
annually, but this cost of living adjustment can be zero,
never more than 3%, and always requires approval of
the Board of Directors at a regularly scheduled public
meeting each year,

Fact: The Fire Station has been declared unsafe for
occupation. Firefighters sleep outside the building.

Measure K does not present accurate or realistic costs
to build a fire station. Measure K doesn't generate
enough funds to repair the current structure or build a
new station.

Measure K puts the Fire District in jeopardy, deprives the
district of sustainable funds, and will close our local fire
station. Measure K threatens our residents, schools and
businesses with the loss of life-saving emergency
services.

Everyone agrees a new station is needed. Unfortunately,
Measure K won't fund it. Before you cast your vote, ask
yourself if your health, home and keepsakes are worth
$146 per year. Vote NO on Measure K to keep
Newcastle Fire Department.

Samuel Moore, Newcastle School Board Member

Alex Blanca, Newcastle Business Owner

Robert W. Stearns, NFPD Board Member

Heather Marisco, Newcastle School Parent Community

Member

Nianne R. Fisch, Resident Castle City Mobile Park

Vote NO on Measure K.

Measure K falls severely short of providing sufficient
funds to build a fire station for Newcastle. Measure K
requires our community to wait three years before there
is enough money to even consider a new station and,
even then, there will not be enough money to complete a
basic fire station.

Without a new fire station, the Newcastle fire department
will have no choice but to close its doors and hang up its
hoses. Firefighters currently sleep in a cramped travel
trailer parked on the street and the public is not allowed
in the building at any time.

Measure K does not raise enough revenue to operate
the Newcastle fire department.

With increasing fuel, equipment and liability costs,
Measure K will not raise sufficient revenue to pay these
additional expenses.

Measure K does not raise enough revenue to improve
compensation for our low paid firefighters or provide life
insurance and a health care plan.

The passage of Measure B by 68% of the vote allowed
the Fire District to provide Newcastle firefighters with a

modest pay increase and a basic health care plan.
Unfortunately, the Measure K alternative will not raise
enough revenue and will result in firefighters' pay being
cut back to $8.50/hr and the loss of their health plan.

Measure K jeopardizes our fire department and our
whole community. Without our first responders, we live
at the mercy of our compromised neighboring districts
who will not offer us firefighting and emergency medical
services when they are on calls in their own district.

Let's stay the course with Measure B's overwhelming
support and direction. For the health and safety of our
residents, our school, our businesses, and our
firefighters, vote no on Measure K.

View us on Facebook.

http://www.facebook.com/pages/Vote-No-On-Measure-K
/411089812273125

Joanne K. Neft, Newcastle Business Owner, Author
Yvonne L. Lewis, Chairman Newcastle Fire Board
Kathleen Daugherty, Superintendent Newcastle
Elementary School District
Howard Willey, Jr., Newcastle Parent
Jim Holmes, Placer County Supervisor

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Measure K provides the same amount of revenue as the
previous measure but limit's the time frame to three
years. The Newcastle Fire District will not shut its doors
if Measure K passes. Measure K ensures that we have
sufficient funding for repairing violations on our old
firehouse or for building a modest new station.

The old historic fire station has not been condemned as
claimed, which can be verified by Placer County Code
Enforcement. This station is still being used by the
public.

Measure K provides sufficient revenue to maintain the
Newcastle firefighters 20% to 35% salary increase and
the health benefits provided by the current fire board of
directors retroactive to July 1, 2012.

Measure K allows a tax increase to continue in place for
three years. After three years, the $146.46 tax increase

will be replaced by a $30 additional tax per parcel to
fund firefighters salaries and benefits.

Taxpayers cannot be expected to pay additional taxes
with yearly increases not to exceed 3% to fund foolish
spending by the Newcastle Fire Protection Board. During
the last fiscal year, the board squandered more than
$76,000 on discarded fire house plans, a Bay area
consulting firm and an expensive special election. And
the waste of taxpayer dollars continues.

A YES on Measure K will force the Newcastle Fire Board
of Directors to live within their means as taxpayers do.
The Board must learn to budget and spend our tax
dollars productively.

Timothy Compton, Resident
Doreen Compton, Resident

RESOLUTION NO.: 2012-08-09

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
THE NEWCASTLE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT TO
COMPLY WITH ELECTIONS CODE SECTION
9310(a)(2) AND TO SUBMIT TO THE VOTERS OF THE
NEWCASTLE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT AN
INITIATIVE MEASURE, WITHOUT ALTERATION.

WHEREAS, an initiative petition ("petition") has been
circulated within the Newcastle Fire Protection District
("NFPD"); and

WHEREAS, the Placer County Elections Department
has found that the petition contains sufficient signatures
to meet the minimum signature requirement established
by California Elections Code section 9310(a)(2); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Elections Code
section 9310(a)(2), the NFPD Board of Directors must
take action to either adopt the ordinance, without
alteration, or submit the ordinance, without alteration, to
the voters of the NFPD; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the NFPD has
determined that the petition, without alteration, fails to
provide sufficient revenue to fund the operations of the
NFPD; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the NFPD has by
a vote of 4 in favor and 1 absent passed a motion to
reject the ordinance, without alteration; and

WHEREAS, California Elections Code section
9310(a)(2) mandates submitting the ordinance, without
alteration, to the registered voters of the NFPD; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the election be conducted
by the Placer County Elections Department, and it is
necessary for the NFPD to request services of the
Placer County Elections Department; and

WHEREAS, all necessary expenses in performing these
services shall be paid by the NFPD.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by

the Board of Directors of the Newcastle Fire Protection
District as follows:

Section 1. Consistent with the Elections Code, a
district-wide election is hereby called,
ordered and will be held on November 6,
2012, within the jurisdictional boundaries of
the NFPD. This tax measure shall be
designated by letter by the Placer County
Elections Department. Pursuant to Elections
Code section 10400, et seq., the election for
this tax measure shall be consolidated with
the regular election to be conducted on
November 6, 2012.

Section 2. Boundaries. The NFPD hereby certifies that
there have been no changes to the NFPD
boundary lines since its last election held on
March 6, 2012.

Section 3. Statement of Measure. The ballot for the
election shall include the following proposed
statement of measure language:

Shall Measure B, which established a parcel tax for
Newcastle FPD so it could provide fire protection and
rapid response services, be altered so that starting in
Fiscal Year 2015-16 the parcel tax shall be reduced from
$146.46 per taxable parcel (with an additional charge for
structures starting at 3,000 square feet), to simply
$30.00 per parcel (without any additional charge for
larger structures and without increases based on the
consumer price index)?

Yes	No

An unaltered, full and complete copy of the Initiative
Measure is attached hereto directly below. [If you
desire a copy of the Initiative Measure, please call
the Office of Elections at 530-886-5650 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you. E.C. 9312]

Section 4. The Placer County Board of Supervisors is
requested to issue instructions to the Placer
County Elections Department to take any
and all steps necessary for the holding of
the election for the NFPD on November 6,
2012.

Section 5. The Placer County Elections Department is
authorized to canvass the returns of the
election.

Section 6. The NFPD shall reimburse the Placer
County Elections Department for services
performed when the work is completed and
upon presentation to the NFPD of a properly
approved bill.

Section 7. The NFPD Secretary is directed to forward,
without delay, to the Board of Supervisors
and to the Placer County Elections
Department, a certified copy of this
resolution.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED by the Board of
Directors of the Newcastle Fire Protection District on this
9th day of August, 2012, by the following roll call vote:

Aye Nay Abstain Absent
Chairman Lewis	X

Vice-Chairman Stearns X
Secretary Calkins	X

Director Orsolini	X

Director Poore	X

Attest:

By:	Patrice	Metz

Clerk to the Board

Date: 8/9/2012

By:	Yvonne	Lewis	Date:	8/9/12

Board Chairperson