SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE C	
MEASURE C: Qualified Special I Tax Assessment for Educational Programs: To maintain existing school programs and improve the quality of education; to provide funds to buy updat and materials for math, reading, and writ and to enhance critical programs including ited to, computer science, library, and ar shall the Shoreline Unified School Distric existing $184.70 a year parcel tax, increas at 2%, for no more than eight years?	YES
	NO
	ed textbooks ing courses; but not lim- ts programs, t extend the ing annually

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE C

SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
MEASURE C

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
Shoreline Unified School District will be authorized to
extend its existing parcel tax of One Hundred Eighty Four
Dollars and 70 Cents ($184.70) on all assessor’s parcels
for educational programs, increasing annually at 2% on
each parcel of land within the District each year for eight
(8) years, beginning July 1, 2013. As stated in the Dis-
trict’s Resolution proposing to extend the parcel tax, the
parcel tax revenue shall be allocated to maintain existing
school programs and improve the quality of education
through the hiring of qualified personnel and the purchase
of equipment and materials as recommended by each
School Site Council for specified curriculum.

s/JACK F. GOVI
Acting County Counsel (Marin County)
s/BRUCE D. GOLDSTEIN
Sonoma County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Our community has generously supported a local par-
cel tax benefitting public education since 1984. This sup-
port has enabled the Shoreline Unified School District to
maintain quality programs in the areas of art, drama,
music, foreign language, physical education and technolo-
gy. Your parcel tax has kept our school libraries open,
funded the hiring of classroom aides and counselors, as
well as the purchase of text books and materials to
enhance core academic instruction that improves math,
reading and writing skills. Your parcel tax will allow the
community’s students to continue receiving services and
instruction in these areas, along with continuing specialty
programs that enrich their total educational experience.

As the challenges of providing a high quality public
education for our community’s children continue to build,
so does the importance of maintaining these vital pro-
grams. These classes provide our children with the knowl-
edge and skills they need to in a very demanding world. A
balanced education is critical in order for students to
develop into educated and contributing members of our
society.

The programs that are supported by Measure C
can only be maintained by the continuation of this
Parcel Tax. These important programs cannot be funded
through the general budget given the severe cuts in educa-
tion funding in the State of California. Measure C will pro-
vide stable funding for these important programs that can-
not be taken away by Sacramento.

Remember, Measure C is not a new tax, but rather a
continuation of the support the community has given to its
schools since 1984. Please join us in the commitment to
provide the best education possible to our students by vot-
ing YES on Measure C.
s/CARLOS PORRATA
s/JAMES LINO
SUSD Trustee
s/LAZULI WHITT
s/JANE C. HEALY
SUSD Trustee
s/CLAIRETTE WILSON
Marin County Board of Education

SHC-i

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C
WAS SUBMITTED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. 2011.12.11

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL TAX ELEC-
TION, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE
ELECTION ORDER, AND REQUESTING CONSOLI-
DATION WITH OTHER ELECTIONS

WHEREAS, a high quality, free and community-sup-
ported elementary and secondary public school system is
essential to the preservation and growth of a strong, stable
and demographic society; and

WHEREAS, the ability of society’s political, social
and economic institutions to adapt and effectively function
in a world of rapid change depends upon an informed and
well-educated citizenry; and

WHEREAS, a high-quality local public school pro-
gram is vital to a community’s well-being because among
other effects, it fosters growth of the greatest natural
human resource any society can have - the minds of its
youth, it strengthens the ability of its younger members to
cope successfully in a competitive society, it preserves and
enhances real property values, it promotes civic pride and
participation in community affairs, it reinforces tradition-
al values, it increases individual awareness of the duties
and responsibilities of citizenship in a participatory system
of government, and because it attracts to the community
new members who share these goals; and

WHEREAS, it is the goal of the Shoreline Unified
School District to provide a rich, fully integrated and com-
prehensive academic program for students through the hir-
ing of qualified personnel and the purchase of equipment
and material as recommended by each School Site Coun-
cil; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the Califor-
nia Constitution and Government Code Sections 50075,
50076, 50077, 50079 and 53720 et seq. authorize school
districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the purpose
of conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds
of the votes cast by voters voting upon such a special tax
proposal; and

WHEREAS, the Shoreline Unified School District
Board of Trustees explicitly recognizes that it may not
impose an ad valorem real property tax to meet its special
needs; and

WHEREAS, it is the intention on the Governing
Board of the Shoreline Unified School District to conduct
an election to maintain and expand school programs on
November 6, 2012, at which time the registered voters of
the Shoreline Unified School District will be given an
opportunity to vote on a qualified special tax assessment;
and

WHEREAS, the General Election will take place on
November 6, 2012, and it is the desire of the Governing
Board of the Shoreline Unified School District that this
election to maintain and expand programs be consolidated
with the General Election, and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the
Governing Board of the SHORELINE UNIFIED

SCHOOL DISTRICT as follows:

Section 1. An election is hereby called to be held with-
in the boundaries of the Shoreline Unified School District
to maintain and expand school programs, and is requested
to be consolidated with the General Election to be held on
November 6, 2012. The following measure shall be sub-
mitted to the registered voters within the Shoreline Unified
School District at this election:

Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the Shoreline Unified School District at
which election shall be submitted to the qualified voters
within the Shoreline Unified School District the following
measure, to wit:

MEASURE C: To maintain existing school programs
and improve the quality of education; to provide funds to
buy updated textbooks and materials for math, reading,
and writing courses; and to enhance critical programs
including, but not limited to, computer science, library,
and arts programs, shall the Shoreline Unified School dis-
trict extend the existing $184.70 a year parcel tax, increas-
ing annually at 2.0% for no more than eight years?

The parcel tax revenue shall be allocated to provide a
rich, fully integrated and comprehensive academic pro-
gram for students through the hiring of qualified personnel
and the purchase of equipment and materials as recom-
mended by each School Site Council in the following
areas:

LIBRARY PROGRAM

COMPUTER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

MUSIC

ART

FOREIGN LANGUAGE

CLASSROOM AIDES

COUNSELING

DRAMA

FIELD TRIPS

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

NUTRITION EDUCATION/SCHOOL GARDENS

SUPPORT OTHER ACADEMIC/EDUCATIONAL

PROGRAMS (not to exceed 10% of the total parcel

tax revenue)

Section 2. The revenue derived from this qualified
special tax assessment to maintain and expand school pro-
grams shall be used solely and exclusively for the purpos-
es set forth above.

Section 3. If any provision of this section or of any
other section of this Resolution or the application thereof
to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such inva-
lidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
this section or of any other section of this Resolution
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end, the provision of this section
and other sections of this Resolution are severable.

Section 4. The text of the measure as displayed on
each individual ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read
as follows:

SHC-2

SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
To maintain existing school programs and improve the
quality of education; to provide funds to buy updated text-
books and materials for math, reading, and writing cours-
es; and to enhance critical programs including, but not
limited to, computer science, library, and arts programs,
shall the Shoreline Unihed School District extend the
existing $184.70 a year parcel tax, increasing annually at
2%, for no more than eight years?

____YES	____NO

Section 5. Commencing on July 1, 2013, the special
tax collected annually on ah assessor’s parcels at the spe-
cial rate specihed above, shall be collected and adminis-
tered in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are
hxed and collected under provisions of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 6. The Marin County and Sonoma County
Boards of Supervisors are hereby requested and autho-
rized to consolidate this election with any elections to be
held on this same date. The County Clerks are hereby
requested and authorized to: 1) set forth all sample ballots
relating to said election to be mailed to the qualihed elec-
tors of the Shoreline Unihed School District; and 2) to
provide absent voter ballots for said special tax election
for use by qualihed electors of the Shoreline Unihed
School District who are entitled thereto in the manner pro-
vided by law.

Section 7. The Clerk of the Shoreline Unihed School
District Governing Board is hereby authorized and direct-
ed to certify to the due adoption of this Resolution and to
transmit a copy hereof so certihed to the Election offices
of Marin and Sonoma Counties.

The foregoing Resolution was moved by Board Mem-
ber Jane Healy, seconded by Board Member James Lino
and adopted by roll-call vote on June 21, 2012 by the fol-

lowing vote:

Board Member Tim Kehoe	AYE

Board Member Monique Moretti	AYE

Board Member Julie Titus	ABSENT

Board Member James Lino	AYE

Board Member Kegan Stedwell	ABSENT

Board Member Jane Healy	AYE

Board Member Jill Manning-Sartori	AYE

AYES: 5 NOES: 0 ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: 2
WHEREUPON, the President declared the foregoing
Resolution duly adopted and SO ORDERED.

s/TIM KEHOE
President, Board of Trustees

CERTIFIED
s/JULIE TITUS
Clerk, Board of Trustees

SHC-3