VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

Containing

MEASURE K

TOWN OF MORAGA

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2012

Arguments in favor of or against the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors.

If you would like to receive this information in Spanish please call (925)
335-7800. If you have already requested voting information in Spanish,
the information will be mailed to you automatically.

Si desea recibir esta informacion en espanol, por favor Name al (925)
335-7800. Si ya solicito informacion para votar en espanol, esta sera
enviada automaticamente por correo.

MEASURE K
TOWN OF MORAGA

To keep local streets from falling into disrepair and maintain Town
services, including:	fixing	potholes	and	cracks;	maintaining

neighborhood police patrols and response times; repairing neighborhood
streets; maintaining recreation programs for youth and seniors; other
general Town services, shall the Town of Moraga enact a one-cent sales
tax for 20 years with authority to incur debt to accelerate infrastructure
projects, with annual audits, citizens’ oversight, no funds for Sacramento
and all funds spent only for Moraga?

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE K

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9
authorizes the Town Council of the Town of Moraga to levy a General
Transactions and Use Tax (i.e. sales tax) if the ordinance proposing the
tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the Town Council
and the tax is approved by a majority vote of the Town's voters. The
Town Council has approved the ordinance as required and submitted it
to the voters.

Measure K would enact a one percent (1.00%) increase to the
sales tax rate on certain purchases made in the Town of Moraga. The
proposed tax would be in addition to existing sales taxes and would be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as other sales taxes.
The measure would continue for a period of twenty (20) years from the
date of commencement. Any extension to the duration of the proposed
tax beyond twenty (20) years would require action by the Town Council
and a new vote of the people. The measure requires a majority vote (i.e.
50 percent plus one) to pass.

Measure K is considered a general tax under state law. As a
result, if adopted, the revenues received from the tax would be placed in
the Town's general fund and could be used in any manner authorized by
law and as directed by the Town Council. Accordingly, the monies
collected could be used by the Town to pay for Town services and
programs such as road repair and maintenance, police services and
recreation programs.

A “Yes” vote on Measure K would increase the sales tax rate in
the Town of Moraga from the current eight and one-quarter percent
(8.25%) to nine and one-quarter percent (9.25%) for a period of twenty
(20) years. A “No” vote on Measure K would leave the sales tax rate in
the Town of Moraga at its current rate of eight and one-quarter percent
(8.25%).

Is Michelle Marchetta Kenyon, Town Attorney
Town of Moraga

The above statement is an Impartial Analysis of Measure K.
If you desire a copy of the Full Text of the Measure, please call the
Town of Moraga Elections Official at (925) 888-7022 and a copy will
be mailed at no cost to you. You may also view the Full Text of
Measure K at www.moraga.ca.us.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE K

It’s time to face facts. Moraga’s neighborhood streets and roads are
failing. Independent experts rate Moraga’s streets and roads among the
worst in the Bay Area - 93rd out of 109 cities.

Yes on K repairs potholes and cracks - keeping our neighborhood
streets and roads from falling even further into disrepair. If we do
nothing, our streets and roads will deteriorate more rapidly.

A Yes vote on K now will help avoid skyrocketing repair costs later.

In recent years the State has taken nearly $5 million from our Town’s
budgets. More takeaways are expected as the State budget mess
continues.

Yes on K is Moraga’s local solution. All funds are just for Moraga and
cannot be taken by the State.

Moraga is our home. We’ve chosen to live here for our high quality public
schools and semi-rural environment. But worsening conditions of local
streets and roads threaten the safety of our community.

Yes on K protects basic services, including police, seniors, and
park/recreation programs, while finally making needed repairs to
neighborhood streets and roads.

Yes on K will repair our failing streets and roads, preserve our property
values, and keep Moraga a desirable place for families to live and
businesses to locate.

Yes on K includes strong fiscal accountability protections including
annual, independent financial audits and a Citizens’ Oversight
Committee to monitor spending. Measure K will cost just one cent on a
$1 purchase. It won’t apply to groceries, prescriptions or services.

That’s why all five Councilmembers, local business leaders and
prominent community members endorse YES on K to fix our streets and
roads and keep our community safe and financially secure.

Vote YES on K! Questions? Visitwww.fixmoragaroads.org.

Mike Metcalf
Mayor, Town of Moraga

Al Dessayer

Former Mayor, Town of Moraga
Bob Foxall

28-Year Resident of Moraga

Hollie Lucas-Alcalay
Parent & Business Owner

Roos Pal

Moraga Resident & Business
Owner

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE K

None filed.

3

BEFORE THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF MORAGA

In the matter of:

Imposing a Transactions and Use )	ORDINANCE	NO.	TBD

Tax to be Administered by the State )

Board of Equalization	)

WHEREAS, Moraga was founded on November 13, 1974, to preserve and
enhance the unique quality of life in our Town by providing a safe environment and
traffic congestion relief while honoring our tradition of minimal service government; and

WHEREAS, the Town has seen flat revenues with dramatically increasing
operational costs due to the overall downturn in the economy, rising health care costs,
and continued takeaways by the State amounting to nearly $5 million over the past 20
years; and

WHEREAS, while the Town continues to be fiscally prudent and constantly seeks
ways to keep costs low and reduce expenses in all departments, the Town still faces
more cuts to essential Town services, street paving and pothole repair, and park
maintenance; and

WHEREAS, the community has expressed a clear interest in supporting the
Town in order to preserve the safety of Moraga, maintain and repair local streets and fix
potholes and cracks, protect vital police services provided by the Town’s Police
Department and maintain the Town’s recreation programs; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Moraga never spends more than the current revenue
would allows, but as a consequence, the streets have fallen further into disrepair
through deferred maintenance and repairs to Moraga’s local streets and roads; and

WHEREAS, in the next five years the Town’s average rating for streets will drop
from “at risk” to “poor” or “failed” if roads are not maintained; and

WHEREAS, the Town must start making these essential repairs immediately,
because waiting will make Town roads more dangerous and significantly more
expensive to fix; and

WHEREAS, this temporary measure would create a guaranteed source of local
funding revenue vital to maintaining Town services that cannot be taken by the State,
ensuring our tax dollars are spent locally for Moraga residents; and

WHEREAS, because of changes in State law, particularly the approval of
Propositions 62 and 218, the Town has very few means available for increasing General
Fund revenue; and

WHEREAS, absent a new source of General Fund revenue, the Town’s ability to
properly maintain public roads, facilities and property, ensure public safety standards
are met, and provide the community with adequate and safe recreational opportunities
will be jeopardized.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Town of Moraga does hereby ordain as follows:

SECTION 1: "Chapter 3.20 Transactions and Use Tax" shall be added to the Moraga
Municipal Code and shall read as follows:

	"Chapter 3.20 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX"
Sections:	
3.20.010	Short Title
3.20.020	Operative Date
3.20.030	Purpose
3.20.040	Contract with State
3.20.050	Transactions Tax Rate
3.20.060	Place of Sale
3.20.070	Use Tax Rate
3.20.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law
3.20.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes
3.20.100	Permit Not Required
3.20.110	Exemptions and Exclusions
3.20.120	Amendments
3.20.130	Enjoining Collection Forbidden
3.20.140	Oversight, Annual Audit and Public Report
3.20.150	Termination Date

3.20.010	Short Title

This ordinance shall be known as the Town of Moraga Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The Town of Moraga hereinafter shall be called "Town." This ordinance shall
be applicable in the incorporated territory of the Town.

3.20.020	Operative Date

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as
set forth below.

3.20.030	Purpose

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes
the Town to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of
the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at
an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the
State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and
Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the
same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.20.040 Contract with State

Prior to the operative date, the Town shall contract with the State Board of Equalization
to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions
and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Town shall not have contracted with the
State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract
and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

3.20.050 Transactions Tax Rate

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the Town at the rate of 1.0% of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail
in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.20.060	Place of Sale

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of
the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.20.070	Use Tax Rate

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the Town
of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative
date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate
of 1.0% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

3.20.080 Adoption of Provisions of State Law

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

3.20.090 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this Town shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this Town or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incidental to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "Town" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.20.100	Permit Not Required

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and

Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.20.110	Exemptions and Exclusions

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any Town, Town and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority
of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the Town which is shipped to a point
outside the Town, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point
by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the Town shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-Town address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-Town and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,

use or other consumption in this Town of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the Town shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property
into the Town or participates within the Town in making the sale of the

property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the Town or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the Town under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the Town" shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the Town.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of
the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the
use tax.

3.20.120 Amendments

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

The foregoing amendments shall not require voter approval.

The following amendments to this ordinance must be approved by the voters of the
Town of Moraga: increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the
tax such that a tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not
previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs automatically by operation
of the preceding paragraph); or extending the tax beyond the twentieth anniversary of
the operative date. The Town Council may otherwise amend this ordinance without
submitting the amendment to the voters for approval.

3.20.130 Enjoining Collection Forbidden

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the Town, or against any
officer of the State or the Town, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance,
or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of
tax required to be collected.

3.20.140	Oversight, Annual Audit and Public Report

Annually the Town Council retains an independent auditor to conduct an audit of and
provide audited financial statements for all of the Town’s financial activities. The auditor
shall include an accounting of the revenue received from the tax and expenditures
thereof in the audited financial statements. The auditor’s report shall be presented to the
Council and made available to the public. Additionally, the Director of Administrative
Services shall annually prepare and present to the Council and the public a report in
conjunction with the audit that reviews the status and performance of the programs and
services funded wholly or partially with proceeds of the tax. There shall also be a
Citizens’ Oversight Committee to review and report annually on the receipt of revenue
and expenditure of funds from the tax authorized by this chapter. The Town Council
shall adopt a resolution establishing the terms, composition and duties of the committee
no later than April 30, 2013.

3.20.150 Termination Date

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the twentieth
anniversary of the operative date, unless extended by a majority vote of the voters of
the Town.

SECTION 2: SEVERABILITY. The Town Council hereby declares that every section,
paragraph, sentence, clause, and phrase of this ordinance is severable. If any section,
paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the
validity or constitutionality of the remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or
phrases.

SECTION 3: EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relating to the levying and collection
of the Town transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

SECTION 4: PUBLICATION. The Clerk of the Town of Moraga is hereby directed to
cause the following summary of the ordinance to be published by a newspaper of
general circulation, published and circulated in the Town of Moraga:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance adopts a one cent (1.0%)
transactions and use tax on the sale or consumption of tangible personal
property within the Town of Moraga. The tax shall terminate automatically upon
the twentieth anniversary of the State beginning to collect it, unless extended by
the voters.

This ordinance was introduced by the Town Council of the Town of Moraga on July 25,
2012, and passed and adopted on_______________by	the	following	vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Michael Metcalf, Mayor

ATTEST:

Marty C. Mclnturf, Town Clerk