ORDINANCE NO. 2012-08

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF PINOLE AMENDING CHAPTER 3.26 OF THE
PINOLE MUNICIPAL CODE CONCERNING THE EXISTING UTILITY USERS TAX

RECITALS

The People of the City of Pinole do hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1. Section 3.26.040(D) of Chapter 3.26 of the Pinole Municipal Code is hereby amended
as follows (with text in strikethrough format indicating deletion and double-underlined
text indicating addition):

“D. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, the tax
imposed under this section shall not be imposed upon any person using intrastate
telephone communication services to the extent that the amounts paid for such
services are exempt to or not subject to the tax imposed under Division 2, Part 20 of
the California Revenue and Taxation Code (emergency telephone users surcharge
law)-or-the tax imposed under Section 1251 of-the Internal Revenue Code.”

Section 2. Section 3.26.190 of Chapter 3.26 of the Pinole Municipal Code is hereby amended as
follows (with text in strikethrough format indicating deletion and double-underlined text
indicating addition):

“This chapter shall automatically be repealed on December 4-31,2042-2020.
unless amended pursuant to Section 3.26.170.”

Section 3. Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this ordinance, including the application of
such part or provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby and
shall continue in full force and effect. To this end, provisions of this ordinance are
severable. The People of the City of Pinole hereby declare that it would have passed each
section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase hereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases be held unconstitutional, invalid, or
unenforceable.

Section 4. Election Required for Tax to be Effective. The tax proposed by this ordinance shall
become effective when approved by a majority of the voters voting on the issue at the
November 6,2012 election.

Section 5. Effective Date of Tax. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, this ordinance shall be
considered adopted on and the tax shall become effective ten (10) days after the Council
certifies the results of the election.

Ordinance 2012-08
December 4,2012
Page 2 of 2

Section 6. Publication. Within fifteen days after the passage of this ordinance the City Clerk shall
cause this ordinance or a summary thereof to be published or to be posted in at least three
public places in the City of Pinole in accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code Section 36933.

APPROVED by the following vote of the Voters of the City of Pinole on November 6,2012:

AGAINST:	1,593

ADOPTED by Declaration of the vote by the City Council of the City of Pinole on December 4,
2012 by the following vote:

FOR:

6,009

AYES:	BANUELOS,	GREEN,	LONG,	MURRAY,	SWEARINGEN

NOES:

NONE

ABSENT:	NONE

ATTEST:	:	c

Summary Published:
Posted:

By:

Pursuant to G.C. Section 40806(c), I certify the following:
Summary Published:	West County Times, December 8.2012

Patricia Athenour^MC, City Clerk

MEASURE M
CITY OF PINOLE

Pinole Local Funding Protection Measure. Without raising current tax
rates, and to maintain a high quality of iife and essential local public
services to the residents of Pinole, shall an ordinance be adopted to
continue the existing Utility Users Tax of eight percent for an additional
eight years, until December 31, 2020, keeping this locally generated
revenue in Pinole?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE M

The City Council of the City of Pinole unanimously placed Measure M on
the November 6, 2012 ballot to ask voters to extend the existing Utility
Users Tax (“UUT”) for an additional eight years with no increase to the
tax rate. Measure M would only become effective if approved by a
simple majority (50% +1) of the voters.

The UUT was originally approved by a citizen lead initiative in 1998 with
an expiration date of December 1, 2004. The tax was set at eight
percent (8%) of the cost of electric, gas, and telephone utility services.
Utility service providers collect the tax as part of the service bill to
customers and remit the proceeds to the City. As a general tax, the
revenue from the UUT is placed in the City’s general fund for general
municipal services. On November 2, 2004, Pinole voters extended the
UUT by 8 years through December 1, 2012, at which time it would
terminate automatically unless extended by the voters of Pinole.

The City Council placed Measure M to extend the existing UUT for an
additional eight years, to December 31, 2020. The UUT is not a new tax
and the existing rate will remain unchanged. One hundred percent of the
revenue generated by the UUT remains in the City of Pinole. Since it is
a local tax, none of the revenue goes to the State or other agencies.

Currently, the UUT generates over $2,000,000 annually. This amount is
approximately 20% of the City’s general fund. The general fund pays for
essential City services including police and fire protection, 911
emergency services, park maintenance and repair, blight and graffiti
removal, among other community services.

If the existing tax is not extended by the voters, the City will implement
immediate reductions in general municipal services. These reductions,
which have already been approved by the Council as part of the current
budget, will require the City to reduce an additional 14.5 full-time

1

equivalent positions in January, 2013. The positions that would be
eliminated include 5 police officers, 2 firefighters, a police services
manager, a police community safety specialist, 3 public works
maintenance workers, a cable access technician, the information
systems administrator and the human resources specialist.

By placing Measure M on the ballot, the City complies with Article XII 1C
of the California Constitution (adopted by Proposition 218), which
requires the voters to approve an amended ordinance which affects
amount of the tax, the manner of collection, and other related matters.
The proposed modifications to the ordinance are printed in the sample
ballot. The full text of the proposed ordinance is available at the Pinole
City Clerk’s office.

The UUT extension proposed in Measure M will not become effective
unless the Measure is approved by at least a majority of those voting on
the Measure.

DATED: August 9, 2012

Benjamin T. Reyes II
City Attorney, City of Pinole

The Full Text of the Measure is available in the Pinole City Clerk’s Office.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE M

The Pinole Utility Users Tax IS NOT A NEW TAX; it is a RENEWAL of an
existing local surcharge on gas, electricity, and telephone usage that has
been part of Pinole’s finances for 21 years. It accounts for approximately
20% of Pinole’s budget. The city asks for a renewal of this tax every 8
years. It is paid by homeowners, renters, and businesses, and includes
protections for low income residents.

Without its renewal, drastic cuts will occur to our police, fire, and
maintenance staffs that will undercut the safety and attractiveness of
Pinole.

We all know Pinole is a great place to live. Our dedicated police and fire
departments ensure the safety of everyone who lives, works, and shops
in Pinole. Our parks and recreation facilities offer excellent programs,
community events, and services for everyone. Unique and family owned
shops and restaurants exist along clean, safe, and well lighted streets.

2

All of these will be adversely affected if the Pinole Utility Users Tax is not
renewed. With the exception of one year (it was repealed in 1997, many
city services were cut, and Pinole voters immediately reinstated it in
1998), the Pinole Utility Users Tax has provided significant funding for
our city since 1991.

The economic downturn and the raiding of city funds by Sacramento
severely wounded California cities. Pinole’s budget has already been
reduced more than $4 million, necessitating the elimination of 1/3 of city
staff (53 positions) and a significant reduction in salary and benefits,
through major concessions, by all remaining city workers.

The city will be forced to eliminate another 14.5 staff positions, including
5 police officers, 2 firefighters, and 7 other crucial positions, if the Pinole
Utility Users Tax is not renewed.

Vote YES to renew the Pinole Utility Users Tax.

Keep Pinole PINOLE.

John H. Hardester
Police Chief

Debbie Ojeda
Homeowner

James Parrott

Former Fire Chief & Homeowner

John J. Meehan
Homeowner, 54-Yr. Resident

Peter Murray
Mayor

None filed.

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE M

3