Measure U

Sales Tax
City of Scotts Valley

Majority Approval Required

Ballot Question:

Shall a temporary one-half of one percent sales tax rate increase be approved for an
eight year period to keep the budget balanced and to preserve police, parks,
recreation and other city services for the residents of Scotts Valley?

Fiscal Impact from City Manager/Finance Director:

City of Scotts Valley Temporary Transactions and Use Tax
Temporary Sales Tax Increase of One-Half Percent for 8 years

The total sales rate in the City of Scotts Valley is currently 8.25%, or 8.25 cents on every
dollar. Of this amount, the City currently receives three-quarters of 1%, or three-
quarters of one cent on every dollar. These funds are used to pay for general City
services such as police, parks, and street maintenance. If approved by the voters, this
measure would temporarily increase the total tax rate for eight years.

The total tax rate would be 8.75% for eight years. The current three-quarters of one
percent sales tax rate generated $1,448,660 for the fiscal year July 1,2012 to June 30,
2013. Based on that amount, the proposed one-half percent (1/2%) increase in the local
sales tax would generate $1,200,000 to support the same general City services noted
above. These are approximations of the amounts that can be expected annually during
the eight-year period the tax would be in effect. Actual sales tax collections may vary
from year to year depending upon economic conditions.

The breakdown of the current 8.25% total sales tax rate is as follows:

6.50% - State

0.75% - City

0.50% - Santa Cruz Metro Transit District

0.25% - Countywide Transportation Fund

0.25% - Countywide Library System

8.25% Total Sales Tax Rate

s/ Stephen H. Ando

City Manager / Finance Director

City of Scotts Valley

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would enact a temporary sales tax
measure for eight years. The tax increase would be one-half of one percent (Vi%). The
sales tax is also referred to as a "transactions and use tax." The current sales tax rate in
the City of Scotts Valley is eight and one-quarter percent. Accordingly, if the ballot
measure is adopted, the sales tax rate would increase to eight and three-quarters
percent for eight years after the adoption of the ballot measure. The proposed sales tax,
like the current sales tax, would be imposed upon the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail establishments within the jurisdictional limits of the City as well
as upon the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer in the jurisdictional limits of the City.

All revenue generated from the proposed sales tax increase would be deposited into the
City's General Fund and, accordingly, all monies collected pursuant to the sales tax
increase would be used by the City to pay for general City operations and services,
including, police, parks and street maintenance. As such, this ballot measure proposes a
"general purpose tax" rather than a "special purpose tax" and requires a simple
majority vote for adoption.

s/ Kirsten M. Powell
City Attorney
City of Scotts Valley

Arguments For Measure U

Vote YES on Measure U.

Measure U is a temporary sales tax increase which will eliminate an ongoing
budget deficit and preserve vital city services. The City of Scotts Valley has worked
hard to reduce our spending and save tax dollars by reforming our pensions,
reducing spending, laying off staff, furloughing employees and deferring capital
improvements.

Even with these actions our budget deficit remains because:

•	Scotts Valley is allowed to keep only 7% of its property tax revenues.

•	The State has taken in excess of 3 million dollars from Scotts Valley over the
past 10 years.

•	Scotts Valley is currently the only municipality in the county without a city
sales tax, as our previous one expired in 2011.

This temporary sales tax increase of a half cent will add only a nickel to every
$10 spent and is scheduled to sunset in 8 years. •

•	Scotts Valley keeps 100% of all revenues generated, Sacramento gets
nothing.

• The added revenue will maintain police protection, parks and public works,
and enable the City to maintain current services, keep our police officer
pay competitive, and will not expand new spending programs.

The City of Scotts Valley has been efficient. As our population has increased over the
past ten years, the number of City employees has decreased by 21%.

The City Council is unanimously asking the voters of Scotts Valley to keep us on the
right track with this temporary sales tax increase. Let's retain our police officers and
keep Scotts Valley a special place to live and work and remain the safest city in
Santa Cruz County.

Measure U has earned community support from Seniors, Business Leaders, and Law
Enforcement who have all endorsed Measure U. Please join them and Vote YES on
Measure U to enable the City of Scotts Valley to maintain essential services such as
public safety, parks, recreation and public works.

s/ Randy Johnson
Mayor, City of Scotts Valley

s/ Kelly S. Gladder
Business Owner, Mint Cafe

s/ Wayne Bellville

President Scotts Valley Peace Officers Association

s/ Ferd Bergholz
Senior Advocate

s/ Patti Malone

Business Owner, Malone's Grille

(No arguments against Measure U were submitted)

Full Text of Measure U

ORDINANCE NO. 186
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SCOTTS VALLEY
AMENDING CHAPTER 3.17 TO TITLE 3 REGARDING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE
TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Scotts Valley as follows:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.17 of Title 3 of the Scotts Valley Municipal Code is amended in
its entirety to read as follows:

"Chapter 3.17 Temporary Transactions and Use Tax

Sections:

3.17.01	Title

3.17.02	Operative Date

3.17.03	Purpose

3.17.04	Contract with State

3.17.05	Transaction Tax Rate

3.17.06	Place of Sale

3.17.07	Use Tax Rate

3.17.08	Adoption of Provisions of State Law

3.17.09	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes

3.17.10	Permit Not Required

3.17.11	Exemptions and Exclusions

3.17.12	Amendments

3.17.13	Enjoining Collection Prohibited

3.17.01	Title

This ordinance shall be known as the Temporary Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.
The City of Scotts Valley hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.17.02	Operative Date

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as
set forth below.

3.17.03	Purpose

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part
1.6 (commencing with Section 7251] of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides
a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.17.04	Contract with State

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization
to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such contract.

3.17.05	Transactions Rate Tax

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the City at the
rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory for eight (8) years
from the operative date of this ordinance.

3.17.06	Place of Sale

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consumed at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery
to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.17.07	Use Tax Rate

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer for eight (8) years after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory
at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property.

3.17.08	Adoption of Provisions of State Law

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

3.17.09	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution
of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the
said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,6797
or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

3.17.10	Permit not Required

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

3.17.11	Exemptions and Exclusions

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax in
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use
Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the
City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purpose of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied.

a.	With respect to vehicles [other than commercial vehicles] subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 [commencing with Section 4000] of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 [commencing
with Section 9840] if the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by
a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address
is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-
City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will
be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for
any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of the ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections [3] and [4] of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
of lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or
other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used
or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions

provide d in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchase is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000] of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840] of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage,
use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.17.12	Amendments

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
consistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

3.17.13	Enjoining Collection Forbidden

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any
officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance,
or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of
tax required to be collected."

SECTON 2. SEVERABLILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
portion of the application thereof to any person or circumstance of this Ordinance is
for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of Santa Cruz County
competent jurisdiction such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision of such ordinance and shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof.

SECTION 3. REPEALS AND CONFLICTING ORDINANCES. All other ordinances of the
City of Scotts Valley or provisions of the Scotts Valley Municipal Code which are in
conflict with this Ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.

SECTION 4. CEQA COMPLIANCE. The City Council finds and determines that the
enactment of this Ordinance is not a "project" as that term is used in the California
Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA;" Cal. Pub. Resources Code Section 21000 et seq.) or
the State CEQA Guidelines (Cal. Code of Regs., Title 14, Section 15000 et seq.}.
Therefore, no environmental assessment is required or necessary.

SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of
the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

SECTION 6. TERMINATION DATE. The tax levied by this ordinance shall continue at
the rate of 0.50% from April 1, 2014 until March 31, 2022. The authority to levy the tax
imposed by this ordinance shall expire eight (8} years from the operative date of this
Ordinance.

SECTION 7. CODIFICATION. Upon adoption of this ordinance pursuant to the voter
approval referenced in Section 3.17.020, the City Clerk, in consultation with the City
Attorney, is hereby authorized and directed to codify this ordinance in the Scotts Valley
Municipal Code.

RESOLUTION NO. 1885.1

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF SCOTTS VALLEY DECLARING RESULTS OF
SPECIAL ELECTION HELD ON NOVEMBER 5, 2013

WHEREAS, a special election was conducted in the City of Scotts Valley on November 5,
2013 for consideration of Measure U, to impose a temporary one-half of one percent (1/2%) sales
tax rate increase for an eight year period to keep the budget balanced and to preserve police,
parks, recreation and other city services for the residents of Scotts Valley, to be administered by
the State Board of Equalization; and

WHEREAS, the canvass of the returns of said special election was conducted through the
office of the County Clerk of Santa Cruz County; and

WHEREAS, the County Clerk of Santa Cruz County has certified the results of the said
election; and

WHEREAS, the abstract attached hereto represents the certified abstract of the results of
said election; and

WHEREAS, the voters approved Measure U by a majority vote of 75.26 %; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Scotts Valley that:

1.	The certified abstract hereto attached disclosing the results of the special election
conducted on November 5, 2013 is hereby accepted and declared to represent the final results of
said election.

2.	The “Temporary Transactions and Use Tax” enacts a temporary sales tax measure
of one-half of one percent (!4%) for a total of eight years.

3.	The “Temporary Transactions and Use Tax” will be administered by the State Board
of Equalization.

4.	The results of the election set forth in the attached certified abstract shall be entered
in the minutes pursuant to Section 22933 of the Elections Code of California.

The above and foregoing resolution was adopted at a duly held regular meeting of the City
Council on the 20th day of November 2013 by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Approved:_______________________

Randy Johnson, Mayor

Attest:______________________________

Tracy A. Ferrara, City Clerk

J:\MyFiles\ELECTION\2013SpecialTax\Reso1885.1.CertifyingElection.wpd

001

I

Certification of the Votes Cast

State of California
County of Santa Cruz

ss.

I, Gail L. Pellerin, County Clerk of the County of Santa Cruz, do hereby
certify that the following is a full, true and correct statement of the
results of the official canvass of the returns of the November 5, 2013
Special Elections held in the City of Scotts Valley and the Loma Prieta
Joint Union Elementary School District in the County of Santa Cruz.

I hereby set my hand and official seal this 8th day of November, 2013.

GailL. Pellerin
Santa Cruz County Clerk

i

002

Special Election
November 5,2013

REGISTRATION & TURNOUT
Santa Cruz County

Completed Precincts:	10	of 10

Total Registration	9,337

Precinct Reporting Ballots Cast'	1,165 12.48%

Vote By Mail / Absentee Reporting Ballots Cast 2,845 30.47%
Total Ballots Cast__________________£________________4.010.	42.95%

H - Loma Prieta Joint Elementary-School Parcel Tax

3 of 3

5
0

983 75.50%
319 24.50%

U - Scotts Valley Sales Tax

Completed Precincts:	7	of	7

Under Votes:	7

Over Votes:	0

Yes	2,029	75.26%

No_________________________________________________667	24.74%

Completed Precincts:
Under Votes:

Over Votes:

Yes

No

Santa Cruz County

Final Official

Cumulative Totals

o

o

CO

un Date/Time: 11/7/13,1:38:24 PM

Page 1 of 1