Moraga School District - Measure B

Election Held 11/5/2013

Pass - 68.36% Yes, 31.64% No

Q: To maintain the high quality of Moraga schools and continue funding for effective
math, science, music and arts programs; maintain manageable class sizes; keep
schools safe and well maintained; keep school libraries open; keep classroom
technology up-to-date; and attract and retain the best qualified teachers; shall the
Moraga School District levy a temporary six-year $192 parcel tax with an
exemption for low-income seniors, independent audits, and with all funds staying
local to benefit Moraga students?

Impartial Analysis from Countv Counsel

The Governing Board of the Moraga School District has adopted a resolution
proposing a parcel tax (a qualified special tax). This ballot measure asks voters to
decide whether a parcel tax should be imposed on parcels of taxable real property
within the District for a period of six years beginning July 1, 2014. This parcel tax
would be in addition to the special taxes authorized by District voters with the
approval of Measure K in 2004.

The parcel tax for each parcel would be $192 per year. A parcel of taxable real
property is any improved or unimproved unit of real property wholly or partially
located in the District that receives a separate tax bill for property taxes from the
Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. A parcel otherwise exempt
from property taxes would be exempt from the parcel tax. Low income persons who
are 65 years of age and older would be able to annually obtain an exemption from
paying the parcel tax.

The ballot measure states that the proceeds of the parcel tax will be used "[t]o
maintain the high quality of Moraga schools and continue funding for effective
math, science, music and arts programs; maintain manageable class sizes; keep
schools safe and well maintained; keep school libraries open; keep classroom
technology up-to-date; and attract and retain the best qualified teachers ... unless
the District Governing Board determines in any given year that changes in student
population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding make
doing so infeasible or inadvisable." Proceeds from the parcel tax may be used only
for the specific purposes set forth in the ballot measure and according to
constitutional and statutory provisions. According to the ballot measure, "if any
[State or Federal] funds are reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax,
then the amount of the special taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order
to restore such State or Federal funding."

State law requires the District's chief fiscal officer to file an annual report with the
District's Governing Board that states the amount of funds received and expended

in each year and the status of any projects required or authorized to be funded
from the parcel tax proceeds. State law also requires the proceeds from the parcel
tax to be deposited into a designated account. Additionally, an oversight committee
will be appointed or designated by the District's Governing Board to monitor
expenditures of parcel tax proceeds and report to the Board regarding the
expenditure of those funds.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the measure for it
to pass.

A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax.

A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax.

Arguments for Measure B

Moraga schools are among the best in California. Student test scores rank near the
top statewide. Exceptional teachers, challenging programs and support from the
community contribute to high student achievement. Our outstanding schools
protect local property values and contribute to the quality of life in Moraga.

Unfortunately, cutbacks in funding threaten the quality of our local schools. Over
the past five years, our schools have lost $11.3 million in State funding. Cuts of this
magnitude threaten every Moraga school and educational program.

Last year, Measure A, which would have provided additional funding for Moraga
schools, was supported by 65% of voters but failed to achieve the required 66.7%
support. In response, and to protect core academic programs: the Education
Foundation increased its contributions; the district maintained a scaled-back
instructional program; and the board reduced the amount of the proposed tax and
made it temporary (6 years only) as opposed to permanent.

Measure B will provide vital funding to preserve:

•	Core academic programs in math, science and technology

•	Manageable class sizes

•	Funding for art and music programs

•	Safe and well-maintained schools

•	School libraries and up-to-date classroom technology

•	The ability to attract and retain the most qualified teachers

Measure B funds must be spent locally to benefit Moraga children. NO funds can be
taken away by the State or used for other purposes.

Every penny goes to support classroom instruction; no money will be used for
administrators' salaries. Measure B funds can only be used for programs approved
by the voters.

Maintaining exemplary school programs is an investment in our community. All
money raised by Measure B stays in Moraga. Parents, teachers, and community and
business leaders support Measure B.

Please Vote YES on Measure B.

Dave Trotter, Mayor, Town of Moraga

Edy Schwartz, Retired Executive Director, Moraga Chamber of Commerce

Diana Obrand, Past President, Moraga Education Foundation

Tara Rochlin, Parent, Business Leader

John Haffner, Moraga Citizen of the Year

Full Text of Measure B

EXHIBIT A (to Resolution 14-13) FULL TEXT OF SPECIAL TAX MEASURE FOR
MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT TO PROTECT QUALITY OF SCHOOLS AND PREVENT
FURTHER REDUCTIONS IN CURRENT ACADEMIC PROGRAMS

INTRODUCTION

This measure provides the additional funding required to protect and maintain a
quality educational program in the Moraga School District.

For several years, the State Legislature has not fully-funded the District to provide
a quality educational program, and meet the high expectations of the community,
and the District is committed to eliminating all deficit spending and to maintaining a
balanced budget. Having exhausted all feasible means of generating funds to
finance basic programs, including the current parcel tax and donations from the
Moraga Education Foundation and the PTAs, the District may now be forced to
further reduce basic educational services.

The District's projected revenue for the foreseeable future is inadequate and
without a new source of revenue, the District must eliminate and reduce
educational programs. Therefore, the District's Governing Board believes that a
qualified special tax measure is necessary to maintain quality education for the
students of the District.

PURPOSE: To maintain the high quality of Moraga schools and continue funding for
effective math, science, music and arts programs; maintain manageable class
sizes; keep schools safe and well maintained; keep school libraries open; keep
classroom technology up-to-date; and attract and retain the best qualified
teachers; the Moraga School District shall levy a temporary six-year $192 parcel
tax with an exemption for low-income seniors, independent audits, and with all
funds staying local to benefit Moraga students.

The District intends to use funds collected pursuant to this measure to help finance
all of the programs listed above, unless the District Governing Board determines in
any given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other
changes in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable.

Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this measure, the District shall be
authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $192 per year on each parcel of taxable
real property in the District, as defined below, for a period of six (6) years,
commencing July 1, 2014.

RATE AND PROCEDURE

The special tax shall be levied on all parcels of property in the Moraga School
District, except parcels that are otherwise exempt from taxation. The special tax
shall be levied at the rate of One-Hundred-Ninety-Two Dollars ($192) per parcel on
all residential, commercial, industrial and institutional parcels, whether such parcels
are improved or unimproved.

Parcels shall be determined according to the records of the Town of Moraga.
Currently, the law provides that the following parcel categories (listed by Contra
Costa County Assessor's Parcel Identification Code and parcel description) are to be
exempt from this special tax:

Code 10 - Vacant unbuildable

Code 70 - Convalescent hospitals and rest homes

Code 71 - Churches

Code 72 - Schools

Code 74 - Cemeteries

Code 75 - Fraternal and service organizations
Code 76 - Retirement housing complex
Code 77 - Cultural uses (libraries)

Code 78 - Parks and playgrounds
Code 79 - Government owned parcels
Code 80 - Mineral Rights
Code 81 - Private roads

Code 87 - Common area parcels (in PUDs)

The District's Governing Board may adopt such additional or supplemental
procedures, as it deems necessary or convenient for the administration of the
special tax.

EXEMPTIONS

In order to provide tax relief to those members of the Moraga community most in
need, any parcel owned and occupied by a low-income person 65 years of age or
older shall be exempt from the tax upon application to the District. The exemption
shall be available annually pursuant to procedures prescribed by the Governing
Board or otherwise as required by law or the Contra Costa County Tax Collector. A
"low-income person" is a member of a "very low income household" as defined by
California Health and Safety Code Section 50105. Under current law, this means
any household whose income does not exceed 50 percent of the area median
income, adjusted for family size and revised annually.

ACCOUNTABILITY AND COMPLIANCE MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections
50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall
apply to the special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure:

(a)	Proceeds of this special tax shall be deposited into a Fund which shall be kept
separate and apart from other Funds in the District and shall be applied only as set
forth in this Measure.

(b)	An Annual Report, including the revenues generated by this special tax and the
expenditures of these monies and the status of any projects funded by these
monies, shall be filed by the chief fiscal officer of the District with the Governing
Board no later than January 1 of the year following the fiscal year during which the
monies were expended.

(c)	In addition, an oversight committee of citizens will be appointed or designated
by the Governing Board to ensure that the special tax proceeds are spent for their
authorized purposes, and to report annually to the Governing Board and the public
regarding the expenditure of such funds.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because
of the District's adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced
because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special taxes will
be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.