ORDINANCE NO. 13-02

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FIREBAUGH
AMENDING CHAPTER 22.5 OF THE FIREBAUGH MUNICIPAL CODE TO IMPOSE
A 5% UTILITY USERS TAX ON WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES

The City Council of the City of Firebaugh does hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1. That section 22.5-1 of the Firebaugh Municipal Code, entitled “Definitions,” is
amended to add a new subsection “j.” to read as follows:

“j. ‘Telephone communication services’ shall mean and include the transmission,
conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point,
or between, or among points, whether or not such information is transmitted through
interconnected service with the public switched network, whatever the technology used, whether
such transmission, conveyance or routing occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic, light wave, laser,
microwave, radio wave (including, but not limited to, cellular service, commercial mobile
service, al communications service (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), and other types of al
wireless service—see 47 USCA § 332(e)(7)(C)(i)—regardless of radio spectrum used),
switching facilities, satellite or any other technology now existing or developed after the
adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and includes, without limitation, fiber optic,
coaxial cable, and wireless. The term ‘telephone communication services’ includes such
transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP)
services or are classified by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value
added, and includes video and/or data services that are functionally integrated with
telecommunications services. ‘Telephone communication services’ include, but are not limited
to, the following services regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated
or billed: central office and custom calling features (including but not limited to call waiting, call
forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling), local number portability, text messaging,
ancillary telecommunication services, prepaid and post-paid telecommunications services
(including but not limited to prepaid calling cards); mobile telecommunications service; private
telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission); and value-added non-voice data
service. For purposes of this section, 'private telecommunication service’ means any dedicated
telephone communications service that entities a user to exclusive or priority use of
communications channels. 'Telephone communication service’ does not include: internet access
services to the extent they are exempt from taxation under the Internet Tax Freedom Act, 47
U.S.C. 151 note; video programming services; and digital downloads, such as downloads of
books, music, ringtones, games and similar digital products.”

Section 2. That section 22.5-1 of the Firebaugh Municipal Code, entitled “Definitions,” is
amended to add a new subsection “k.” to read as follows:

“k. ‘Ancillary telephone communication services’ shall mean services that are associated
with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telephone communication services
including, but not limited to, the following:

1

1.	Services that link two or more participants of an audio or video conference call,
including the provision of a telephone number.

2.	Services that separately state information pertaining to individual calls on a
customer’s billing statement.

3.	Services that provide telephone number information, and/or address information.

4.	Services offered in connection with one or more telephone communications services,
which offer advanced calling features that allow customers to identify callers and to
manage multiple calls and call connections.

5.	Services that enable customers to store, send or receive recorded messages.”

Section 3. That section 22.5-3A is added to Firebaugh Municipal Code, entitled to read as
follows:

“22.5-3A Wireless Communication users’ tax.

a.	This section shall not apply to services subject to tax under section 22.5-3 and is not
intended to create a double tax on any telephone services. With regard to rate payers and
services not subject to tax pursuant to section 22.5-3, there is hereby imposed a tax upon every
rate payer other than a telephone corporation who uses any international, interstate and/or
intrastate telephone communication services in the City. Interstate calls shall include calls to and
from the District of Columbia or any U.S. territory. The tax imposed by this section shall be at
the rate of five percent (5%) of the charges made for such telephone communication services.

The tax shall be collected from the service user by the telephone communication services
supplier or its billing agent. To the extent allowed by federal and state law, the tax on telephone
communication services is intended to, and does, apply to all charges within the city’s tax
jurisdiction, such as charges billed to a telephone account having a situs in the city as permitted
by the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000, 4 U.S.C. § 116 et seq. There are
rebuttable presumptions that telephone communication services billed to a billing or service
address in the city are used, in whole or in part, within the city’s boundaries, and that such
services are subject to taxation under this chapter. There is also a rebuttable presumption that
telephone communication services sold within the city that are not billed to a billing address or
provided to a primary physical location are used, in whole or in part, within the city’s boundaries
and that such services are subject to taxation under this chapter.

b.	The following shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section:

1. Charges for services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones; except
that where such coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a guaranteed amount,
the amounts paid under such guarantee, plus any fixed monthly or other periodic
charge shall be included in the base for computing the amount of tax due; nor shall
the term “telephone communication services” include land mobile services or
maritime mobile services as defined in § 2.1 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal
Regulations, as such section existed on October 1, 1967.

c.	The tax on telephone communication services imposed by this section shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be

2

remitted to the tax administrator on or before the last day of the following month; and must be
received by the tax administrator on or before that date.

d.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in
exchange for the telephone communication services if a non-taxable service and a taxable service
are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the
service supplier identifies non-taxable charges by verifiable data reflected in its books and
records that are kept in the regular course of business and consistently with generally accepted
accounting principles. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper apportionment
of taxable and non-taxable charges.

e.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall not include charges for any type of
service or equipment furnished by a service supplier subject to public utility regulation during
any period in which the same or similar services or equipment are also available for sale or lease
from s other than a service supplier subject to public utility regulation.

f.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telephone communication services
subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the tax administrator that the
service user has previously paid the same tax in another American jurisdiction on such telephone
communication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the
amount of such tax legally imposed in such other American jurisdiction; provided, however, the
amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the city under this section.

g.	The tax administrator may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to telephone
communication service suppliers which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this
chapter administrative determinations identifying those telephone communication services that
are subject to the tax of subsection (a) above. The administrative determinations shall implement
the intent of the city council that the telephone users’ tax be imposed on any rate payer who
initiates or receives high-quality voice communications without regard to the type or kind of
transmission media or technology that exists on the date the amendments to this section became
effective or which may be developed in the future. Such administrative rulings shall be
consistent with legal nexus and laws pertaining to telephone communications services and shall
not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology, or increase an existing tax, except as
allowed by California Government Code § 53750(h)(2) and (h)(3) or other law. The tax
administrator may consider state-wide interpretive rules and guidelines promulgated by any
government agency or association of government agencies as a factor in determining the intent of
voters adopting this section. To the extent that the tax administrator determines that the tax
imposed under this section shall not be collected in full for any period of time, such an
administrative determination falls within the tax administrator’s discretion to settle disputes. The
tax administrator’s exercise of discretion, under this chapter does not constitute a change in
taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code § 53750(h), and the city does not waive
or abrogate its right to collect the telephone users’ tax in full as a result of issuing such
administrative determinations and may suspend such determination and recommence collection
of the tax without additional voter approval. The administrative determination shall be consistent
with and shall not impose a new tax or increase an existing tax without voter approval.

h.	1 .For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this
section, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor
of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent
permitted by state and federal law, and as that law may change from time to time. Any
telephone communication service (including VoIP) used by a with a service address in
the city, which service is capable of terminating a call to another on the general
telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus”
exists or “minimum contacts” exist for purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty
to collect and remit a tax under this chapter.

2. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the city to be obligated to
collect and remit the tax imposed by this chapter if it does any of the following: maintains
or has within the city, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of business of
any nature; solicits business in the city by employees, independent contractors, resellers,
agents or other representatives; solicits business in the city by means of advertising that is
broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the city or distributed from a location
within the city; or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published
within the city or through materials distributed in the city by means other than the United
States mail.

Section 4. That section 22.5-14 is added to Firebaugh Municipal Code, entitled to read as
follows:

“22.5-14 Effect of state and federal authorization.

To the extent that the city’s authorization to impose or collect any tax imposed under this chapter
is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no amendment or
modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax
shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the city’s authorization up to the full amount
of the tax imposed under this chapter.”

Section 5. Amendment of Ordinance.

Chapter 22.5 of the Firebaugh Municipal Code as amended by this Ordinance may be repealed or
amended by the City Council without a vote of the people except as follows: as required by
Proposition 218, any amendment to that chapter that increases the amount or rate of tax beyond
the levels authorized by this Ordinance may not take effect unless approved by a vote of the
people. The City Council may impose the taxes authorized by that chapter in any amount or rate
which does not exceed the rate approved by the voters of the City.

Section 6. Severability.

If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is held to be invalid or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction for any reason, the remaining sections,
sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force
and effect. The People of the City of Firebaugh hereby declare that they would have adopted
each section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that

4

any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this Ordinance be declared
invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this Ordinance are severable.

Section 7. Majority Approval; Effective Date; Execution.

This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon and
shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council. The City Clerk is
hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance where indicated below.

The foregoing Ordinance No. 13-02 was introduced at a regular meeting of the City
Council of the City of Firebaugh on the 4th day of March, 2013, and was passed and adopted at a
regular meeting of the City Council on the 15th day of April, 2013, by the following vote:

AYES:	Knight, Jenkins, Valdez, Sablan

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:	DeFrancesco

APPROVED:

Mayor

City of Firebaugh

ATTEST:

City Clerk
City of Firebaugh

J:\wdocs\01907\001\ord\00263489.DOC

5