Ballot Question

Shall the Sunnyvale Municipal Code be amended to increase the
transient occupancy tax rate (commonly called "hotel tax") charged to
persons who occupy hotel or motel rooms in the City for 30 days or less
from 9.5% to 10.5% in order to help maintain the City's ability to fund
basic services such as public safety and streets, trees, and sidewalk
maintenance, and to keep parity with neighboring cities' hotel tax rates,
effective January 1, 2014?

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE
SUNNYVALE MUNICIPAL CODE

The City Council of the City of Sunnyvale, on its own motion, submits to the Electors the
following amendment to the Sunnyvale Municipal Code. The City Council has called a
consolidated general election for the purpose of voting on the amendment to be held on
November 5, 2013.

The proposed amendment to the Municipal Code follows the statement of the measure.
The provisions of the Municipal Code proposed to be deleted are printed as strike out type, and
the new previsions are printed as underlined type.

CITY OF SUNNYVALE MEASURE 8

Shall the Sunnyvale Municipal Code be amended to increase the transient
occupancy tax rate (commonly called "hotel tax") charged to persons who occupy
hotel or motel rooms in the City for 30 days or less from 9.5% to 10.5% in order
to help maintain the City’s ability to fund basic services such as public safety and
streets, trees, and sidewalk maintenance, and to keep parity with neighboring
cities’ hotel tax rates, effective January 1, 2014?

YES

NO ________

If Measure B_ carries, the Sunnyvale Municipal Code shall be amended by amending
Section 3.16.040 to read as follows:

Section 3.16.040 Imposition—Rate—Payment.

(a)	For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and
shall pay a tax in the amount of eight percent of the rent charged by the operator
through June 30, 1995, and eight and one-half percent of the rent charged by the
operator on or after July 1,1995.

(b)	Commencing January 1, 2007, and continuing through December 31, 2008,
the amount of the tax shall be nine percent of the rent charged by the operator.
Effective January 1, 2009, the amount of the tax shall be nine and one-half
percent of the rent charged by the operator, provided, however, that the average
citywide hotel/motel occupancy rate from January 1 through September 30, 2008,
as determined by the director of finance, is at least sixty percent. If the average
occupancy rate during this period is less than sixty percent, the increase in the
amount of the tax shall be deferred until January 1, 2010. In any event, the
amount of the tax on and after January 1, 2010, shall be nine and one-half percent
of the rent charged by operator.

tel Commencing January 1. 2014. and continuing thereafter, the amount of the tax
shall be ten and one-half percent of the rent charged by the operator.

1

(de) Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city which is
extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The transient, or any
person paying rent on the transient’s behalf, shall pay the tax to the operator of the
hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate
share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due
upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax
due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax administrator may require that
such tax shall be paid directly to the tax administrator.

2

November 2013 General Municipal Election

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF CITY OF SUNNYVALE

MEASURE B

(Transient Occupancy Tax Increase)

This proposed ballot measure would amend Chapter 3.16 of the Sunnyvale Municipal Code to
increase the City’s transient occupancy tax (“TOT”) rate from 9.5% to 10.5%. The TOT,
otherwise known as the “hotel tax”, is imposed for general governmental purposes and is
therefore considered a “general tax”. Under state law, any increase in a general tax requires a
simple majority vote of the electorate (50% plus one) at a general municipal election of the City.

The City’s TOT was first adopted by ordinance in 1965 and became operative in 1968. The last
time the City’s voters approved a TOT rate increase was in 2005, which gradually phased-in the
tax increase over a four-year period to the current rate of 9.5%. Sunnyvale currently has thirty-
four (34) hotels operating within the City that pay the tax. As defined in the ordinance, “hotels”
includes all types of transient lodging establishments. The tax is assessed by the operator on
behalf of the City to guests who occupy hotels for thirty (30) days or less. The tax is collected by
the hotels and remitted to the City. It is based on the room rate charged by the hotel. For
example, if the base room rate is $100, the total amount charged to the guest under the new rate
would be $110.50, with $10.50 remitted to the City as tax.

TOT rates vary around the County of Santa Clara from a low of 9% to a high of 12%. If
additional special hotel tax districts are included, such as the San Jose Convention Center
Facility District, the range is from 9% to 14%.

Sunnyvale’s Department of Finance estimates that a 1% increase in TOT from 9.5% to 10.5%
would result in approximately $900,000 in additional annual revenue or approximately $23
million over a twenty (20) year period based on current inflation-adjusted long-term revenue
projections. Revenues from the tax are placed in the City’s General Fund to support
infrastructure and City services including police and fire, public works, street and sidewalk
maintenance, parks and recreation, library services, and economic development efforts.

A “YES” vote is a vote to amend the Sunnyvale Municipal Code to increase the City’s TOT rate
from 9.5% to 10.5%, effective January 1, 2014.

A “NO” vote is a vote to retain the current TOT rate of 9.5%.

Joan A. Borger
City Attorney

Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument In Favor of Measure B

[Pursuant to §9282: Maximum 300 words]

Measure fL_ provides funds for important city services at no cost to Sunnyvale residents.

Sunnyvale's Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT), commonly called the "hotel tax," is paid by visitors who stay
in Sunnyvale hotels. Sunnyvale's current 9.5% rate is below the county-wide average.

Sunnyvale entered the Great Recession with both expense and revenue problems to solve. We now
emerge from the Great Recession with new labor agreements with every employee union. Sunnyvale
negotiated for two-tier retirement, two years without raises, and employees paying a greater share of
their pension costs.

We've worked hard to control costs and balance the budget. Sunnyvale has been a good steward of your
tax dollars.

Now we must look at revenue. And Sunnyvale's revenue has been under attack, reduced by repeated
State raids, by the State's default on Sunnyvale's RDA loan repayments, and by increased online sales.
We must find other revenue sources to maintain the service levels our residents demand, and our low
TOT is one obvious answer.

This mere 1% increase in the TOT will generate $900,000 each year for city services. Measure_lets

Sunnyvale benefit from hotel visitors to Superbowl 50 and other events at Santa Clara’s new stadium,
just in time for next year's opening. Further, Sunnyvale's Chamber of Commerce believes keeping the
TOT at or under 10.5% still keeps our hotels competitive.

This will provide services that our residents need and want. Sunnyvale can use this revenue to hire more
public safety officers, to improve parks, and to repair our roads.

Best of all, the State cannot take this revenue from us.

This is a very small change that makes a very big difference to the city services that we need and want.
We respectfully urge you to vote YES on Measure B .

The undersigned proponent(s) or author(s) of the (primary/rebuttal) argument (in favor of /
against) Ballot Measure Jg_ at the General Municipal Election for the City of Sunnyvale to be
held on November 5, 2013 hereby state that this argument is true and correct to the best of
(his/her/their) knowledge and belief.

Print Name____Anthony Spitaleri_________

Organization:_Mayor, City of Sunnyvale

Signaturi

aA

Date

2	Print Name James R. “Jim” Griffith	Signature	
	Organization:_Vice Mayor, City of Sunnyvale		Date  i	/ c
3	Print Name Tara Martin-Milius	Signature /A llirikM^h ^	IAP*
	Organization: Councilmember, City of Sunnyvale	Date ' \ ^	
4	Print Name irvl (1 1 Htyl	Signature 0	
	Organization: ffirpnfljr  s\C viaJS i_,		Date yjS \.3		
5	Print Name	Sianature	
	Organization-	Date	
			

D)	ECE1WE	(nl
111	JUN 25 2013	ZJ

CITY CLERK’S OFFICE
CITY OF SUNNYVALE

Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Rebuttal To Argument In Favor Of Measure

This hotel tax increase is on the ballot only because the council declined to place a Utility Users
Tax measure on the ballot two years ago, when the city manager asked us to do so:

htto://sunnwale.ca.oov/Portals/0/Sunnwale/CouncilReports/2011/11-055.pdf

Fixing the UUT would make our revenue sustainable for the indefinite future. But adding 1% to
the hotel tax will not. Another tax measure will have to be placed on the ballot in a few years.
Rather than implementing a stopgap measure, we should deal with the issue in a permanent
way.

The City Manager’s 2013 Budget Letter says, ‘Over the next year, we should discuss the Utility
Users Tax (UUT) which makes up 5% of our total General Fund revenue...Because we have full
control over this revenue source, it is vitally important that we analyze our rate compared to our
neighboring jurisdictions and ensure we are collecting an appropriate amount...'

Many of die hotel rooms booked in Sunnyvale are paid for by local companies, who are
bringing their remote employees in for meetings. Ten 49ers games per year will not be the
primary source of extra hotel tax revenue. Well-managed businesses control travel costs tightly,
and if this Measure passes, local employers will have an incentive to steer their business away
from Sunnyvale hotels.

Whether this Measure passes or not, we will have to pass a UUT measure to make City
revenues sustainable. Why not just do that, and solve the revenue problem for goal?

The undersigned proponent(s) or authors) of the (primary/rebuttal) argument (in favor of/
against) Ballot Measure J8_ at the General Municipal Election for the City of Sunnyvale to be
held on November 5,2013 hereby state that this argument is true and correct to the best of
(his/her/their) knowledge and belief.

Sif	ined: . ,	
	Print Name ChristoDher R. Movlan	Sianature feM
1	Oraanization: Councilmember. Citv of Sunnwale	Date j/3f/3 .V
		

fnl ICEIVE		
	'JUL-3 2013	

Argument Against Measure $

Since the economic crash of 2008, the City of Sunnyvale has balanced its budget completely by
reducing expenditures, with no new revenue at all. It is indeed necessary to increase revenues
now to maintain city services. That can be done only by asking the voters to approve an
increase. When selecting which revenue source to increase, the city’s fiscal policy specifies the
criteria that should be used. Unfortunately, an increase in the hotel tax conflicts with two of
those policies.

The proposed increase from 9.5% to 10.5% takes us out of compliance with our policy of
“competitiveness with surrounding communities.” The county average is 10.4%, and the
proposed increase puts us slightly higher than that, as well as being higher than neighboring
cities Mountain View (10%) and Santa Clara (9.5%).

The proposed increase also conflicts with the criterion of “equity/faimess in distribution of the
revenue burden on various segments of the community.” The hotel tax is charged to a small
sector of our business community, with the goal of having nonresidents pay for our city services.

Fortunately, there is a revenue stream that is way overdue for updating, as pointed out by the
last several city managers in their budget transmittal letters each year: the utility user’s tax,
which has not been changed since 1976 and which is currently half the county average.
Updating the UUT would bring in ten times as much revenue as this proposed measure, spread
evenly across all of us so that the individual cost would be very small.

Hotel taxes are proposed under the assumption that voters want to make other people pay for
their city services. Let’s show that we are better than that. Let’s leave the hotel tax where it is,
and ask the council to update the utility user’s tax.

The undersigned proponent(s) or authors) of the (primary/rebuttal) argument (in favor of /

against) Ballot Measure______at the General Municipal Election for the City of Sunnyvale to be

held on November 5,2013 hereby state that this argument is true and correct to the best of
(his/her/their) knowledge and belief.

	Print Name Christopher R. Movlan	Sianaturefj^Mfcftfl
1	Oraanization: Councilmember. Citv of Sunnwale	Date ^
		

Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.
Rebuttal To Argument Against Measure B

[Pursuant to §9285: Maximum 250 words]

When proposing this ballot measure, the City Council listened to the Sunnyvale Chamber of
Commerce, which stated that a 1% hotel tax increase still keeps Sunnyvale's hotels competitive
with surrounding cities.

Clearly Sunnyvale’s "competitive rate" policy is being met.

According to both City staff and the Chamber of Commerce, the effective hotel tax rates are
higher than quoted by the opponent. The effective tax rates are 10.5 to 11.5% in Santa Clara,
12% in Cupertino, 12% in Palo Alto, 12% in Campbell, and 14% in San Jose. San Jose and
Santa Clara have additional taxes and special districts that increase their actual hotel tax rates
beyond their base TOT rates. With these extras, the county’s average hotel tax rate is actually
between 11.9% and 12.25%.

A mere 1% increase in the hotel tax to a rate of 10.5% keeps Sunnyvale’s TOT rate not just
competitive, but still one of the lowest hotel tax rates in the county.

Most important, this revenue will provide public safety officers, services, and maintenance that
city residents need and want.

This measure is based on one simple and obvious point - the new Santa Clara stadium will have
some negative impacts on Sunnyvale's traffic, streets, and public safety, and stadium visitors
should be responsible for those impacts. Obviously, the stadium’s completion makes Measure
I? a priority right now, and Measure _g_ still preserves the competitiveness of Sunnyvale’s
hotels.

Fair is fair. We urge you to pass Measure 8 .

The undersigned proponent(s) or authors) of the (primary/rebuttal) argument (in favor of/
against) Ballot Measure at the General Municipal Election for the City of Sunnyvale to be
held on November 5, 2013 hereby state that this argument is true and correct to the best of
(his/her/their) knowledge and belief.

Signed:

1	Print Name Anthonv Soitaleri	Signature t
	Organization: Mavor. Citv of Sunnwale	Date VWl;?
		7 ;
2	Print Name James R. “Jim” Griffith	Signaturejffl&Ud K
	Organization: Vice Mavor. Citv of Sunnwale	Date % I# IJ
		n( f r ,If.
3	Print Name Tara Martin-Milius	Start*^Aifihk^P
	Organization: Councilmember, Citv of Sunnwale	Date \ Dk ^
		
4	Print Name Melinda Hamilton	
	Organization: Former Mavor. Citv of Sunnwale	Date b jaiQlf l3
		0 Q
5	Print Name	Signature
	Organization:	Date
		

fi

JUL 0 8 2013 L

I **■»

CITY CLERK'S OFFICE
.„9_'v ‘	",v"	'ALE

1