Supporter

Logo of the "Yes on Measure A" campaign

Measure RB-A was co-written by Bill Brand and Jim Light. Brand is a member of the
Redondo Beach City Council. Light was a candidate for city council and the president of
"Building a Better Redondo," a local nonprofit.

Measure RB-A was drafted by Brand and Light because they did not agree with the
actions taken by the Redondo Beach City Council regarding AES proposals for what to
do with the 50 acres AES owns along North Harbor Drive.

Redondo Beach residents Lezlie Campeggi, Dawn Esser, and Sheri Patterson also
formed a group called "No Power Plant" that opposed the AES plans for the property.

"Building a Better Redondo" (BBR) paid for the drafting of the initiative while the group
"No Power Plant funded the activities related to the signature drive and campaign.[2]

Measure A was also endorsed by:

•	Surf Rider Foundation

•	Sierra Club

•	Los Angeles League of Conservation Voters

•	Barbara Doerr, former mayor of Redondo Beach

•	Todd Loewenstein and Drew Garnet, school board members

Arguments in favor

The arguments in favor of Measure A in the city's official voter guide included:"This is
our only chance to rid our waterfront of a power plant. Times have changed since the
first plant was built in Redondo Beach. This site is now tightly surrounded by dense
residential development, senior housing, hotels, restaurants, offices and a harbor. This
is no place for a new power plant."

•	"The power plant is Redondo’s single largest air polluter. AES’ own
projections show emissions from just one pollutant, particulate matter, will
increase 5-15 times from what AES reports now."

•	"Particulate matter and other power plant pollutants retard lung development
in children, cause asthma attacks and heart attacks, and kill twice as many
people as breast cancer every year in California. Lowering the smoke stacks
to improve the aesthetics just increases our exposure."

•	"City studies show property values and business revenues are reduced by the
power plant. Why risk our historic waterfront revitalization by allowing a new
power plant?"

•	"If Measure A fails, the Redondo waterfront could be saddled with three
smoke stacks, a power plant, and the power lines until 2070."

•	"Measure A allows us to keep the Whaling Wall or historic buildings without a
new power plant."

•	"We don’t need the power. The current plant only runs at about 5% of annual
capacity. Two new plants in our area come online this year. Independent
consultants and State reports demonstrate there’s capacity to retire
Redondo’s plant."

•	"Three other coastal plants have recently retired due to local opposition. Yes
on A shows State agencies and officials our opposition to a new power plant."

Opposition

Measure A

PROTECT REDONDO BEACH

NoWay

Logo of the "No on Measure A" campaign

Opponents

The initiative was opposed by AES. They would like to rebuild the power plant that is
located on the 50 acres in question.

Harry Munns, a columnist who writes on the website "Building the Best Redondo
Beach," opposed the initiative. He wrote that the initiative is "short-sighted, ill-conceived
and potentially dangerous."[3]

Others who opposed Measure A included:

•	Los Angeles County Democratic Party[4]

•	AES Redondo Beach

•	The Redondo Beach Chamber of Commerce. (They said, ""Measure A costs
Redondo Beach taxpayers millions, but has no funding provision to pay for
it.")

•	Dan Madrigal, a retired Redondo Beach Fire Chief

•	Steven Diels and Matthew Kilroy, members of the Redondo Beach city
council

•	Bob Meistrell, co-founder, Body Glove and Dive N' Surf

•	Ann Garten, a former Redondo Beach planning commissioner

•	Mike Gin, Mayor of Redondo Beach

•	Jane A. Diehl

•	Arlene Staich, a former School Board Member

•	Lisa Rodriguez

Arguments against

No on Measure A" ad

The arguments opposing Measure A in the city's

official vo

:er guide included:

•	"Would you support a government that rezoned your property without your
consent? Would you support a measure that eliminates your existing use and
allows others to use your own property? Measure A asks you to rezone
private property that does not belong to the City in a way that devalues the
land and limits the use for the property owner."

•	"Measure A doesn’t guarantee the removal of the power plant. It would likely
mire the City of Redondo Beach in lawsuits for years to come, costing us
millions of dollars without any positive results. Even if Measure A passes, the
State could override the zoning and allow a new power plant to be built."

•	"Measure A was created without any input from the property owner. It was
created without open and public meetings that would have been required if
the City had proposed a zoning change. It increases the likelihood that the
existing power plant continues to operate because it limits the owner’s viable
economic choices. Measure A falsely promises the retirement of the power
plant, but has no authority over the existing facility."

•	"Measure A attempts to create a regional park bringing with it traffic and
crowds, without any revenue to the City of Redondo Beach to pay for the
maintenance of the park. Measure A avoids any environmental impact
analysis that would have normally been required."

• "Measure A pits the property owner against our community. A better approach
is to work collaboratively with the property owner and include a rigorous
public process to create a vibrant and exciting waterfront."

Text of measure

The question on the ballot:

	
	Measure RB-A: "Shall Redondo Beach Phase-Out Existing Power Generation and Power Transmission from an Approximately 50-Acre Site and Set New Land Use and Development Standards by Amending the General Plan, Coastal Land Use Plan, Harbor/Civic Center Specific Plan, Coastal Zoning, Zoning, and City Charter; the new land use would be allocated between 60-70% to parks and open space and the remaining 30-40% allocated between commercial, institutional or marine related light industrial/boatyard uses?"[5]