Measure H

Parcel Tax

Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District

2/3 Approval Required

To support high academic achievement for local students and provide stable local
funding to maintain outstanding core academic programs in reading, writing,
math, and science, retain highly qualified and experienced teachers, and prepare
students for an excellent high school shall the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary
School District authorize an annual school parcel tax of $164 per parcel for seven
years with independent citizens' oversight, an exemption for seniors, no funds for
administrator's salaries and every dollar staying in our schools?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to adopt a special tax of $164 per parcel on parcels within
the District for seven years.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote not to adopt a special tax of $164 per parcel on parcels
within the District for seven years.

Impartial Analysis from County Counsels, Santa
Clara and Santa Cruz Counties
Santa Clara County

A school district, following notice and a public hearing, has authority to levy a qualified
special tax upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on a proposal pursuant to
section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and sections 50075 et seq. of the
California Government Code.

The Board of Trustees [Board) of the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School
District (District) proposes a special tax on each parcel in the District in the amount of
$164 per year for a period of seven years, commencing on July 1, 2014. The proposed
tax includes an exemption for any parcel that is a principal residence of, and owned by,
one or more persons 65 years of age or older, and persons receiving supplemental
security income, regardless of age. The exemption would be made available by
application to the District.

State law requires that the District state the specific purposes for which the parcel tax
proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax on the specified purposes.
According to the District, the stated purposes of the tax proposed by Measure H are to
(1) retain highly qualified and experienced teachers; (2) maintain outstanding core
academic programs in reading, writing, math and science; and (3) prepare students for
an excellent high school.

The District is required to provide accountability measures for the proceeds of the tax.
These measures include depositing the proceeds of the tax into a fund that is separate
and apart from other District funds. Additionally, an annual written report must be

made to the Board no later than January 1st of each year the tax is in effect detailing the
amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be
funded from the tax. A citizens' oversight committee will be appointed by the Board to
review the expenditure of the tax proceeds to ensure they are expended for the specific
purposes identified in Measure H, and to report annually to the Board and the public
regarding the use of these proceeds.

A "yes" vote is a vote to adopt a special tax of $164 per parcel on parcels within the
District for seven years.

A "no" vote is a vote not to adopt a special tax of $164 per parcel on parcels within the
District for seven years.

Orry P. Korb
County Counsel

By:

s/ Susan Swain

Lead Deputy County Counsel

Santa Cruz County

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Loma Prieta
Joint Union Elementary School District ("the School District") will be authorized to levy
a special tax on real property. The tax would be imposed for seven years beginning July
1, 2014, at the rate of $164 per year on each parcel within the School District.

State law requires that the District state the specific purposes for which the parcel tax
proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax on the specified purposes.
According to the District, the stated purposes of the tax proposed by Measure H are to
(1) retain highly qualified and experienced teachers; (2) maintain outstanding core
academic programs in reading, writing, math and science; and (3) prepare students for
an excellent high school. Proceeds of the tax may not be used for administrators'
salaries or benefits. In accordance with State law, the School District Board would
implement accountability measures. It would create a separate account into which the
proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited. An annual written report would show the
amount of the special taxes which have been collected and expended, and the status of
projects to be funded from those proceeds.

The special parcel tax is to be collected in the same manner as those property taxes
which are based upon property value. Property owners who are 65 years of age or
older, or who are receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability regardless of
age, may obtain an exemption if the property is used solely for owner-occupied, single
family residential purposes, by applying annually to the School District's Board of
Trustees.An owner of contiguous parcels meeting specified criteria may also apply
annually to have the parcels treated as a single parcel for purposes of the tax.

The School District Board of Trustees proposes to reduce this parcel tax if it should
develop that it has an unintended effect of decreasing or offsetting local, state or federal
government funding sources that would otherwise be available to the School District.
Any necessary increases in the School District's appropriations limit will be
accomplished pursuant to State law, in order to permit proceeds of the special tax to be
spent for the authorized purposes.

This measure will have no effect on existing levies.

A "yes" vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A "no" vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

DANA McRAE
COUNTY COUNSEL

By:

s/ Jane M. Scott
Assistant County Counsel

Arguments For Measure H

Protect the outstanding education students receive at Loma Prieta Elementary
School and C.T. English Middle School: VOTE YES on Measure H.

Loma Prieta Elementary and C.T. English Middle schools are part of what makes this
mountain community special. Our great teachers and rigorous math, science and
reading curriculum have prepared generations of mountain students to succeed in
high school, college and careers. Both schools have received awards for academic
distinction.

Unfortunately, years of state budget cuts have hurt our mountain schools.

Measure H is a local measure. All funds generated will stay here, for mountain
students. This money cannot be taken away by the State.

Measure H will:

•	Maintain excellent K-8 core academics in our mountain community

•	Retain our best teachers [including subject matter experts for the middle
school]

•	Prepare Loma Prieta students for an excellent high school

•	Keep school libraries open

•	Maintain school safety and security

Measure H is a modest, thoughtful proposal supported by parents, teachers and
community leaders. It won't solve all our problems, but it will protect core

academics, help retain our highest quality teachers, and ensure that Loma Prieta
students continue to be prepared to attend an excellent high school.

The cost of Measure H is less than $14 a month for property owners. Senior citizens
are exempt and the measure is temporary; it lasts just seven years. Every penny
stays in the community to benefit Loma Prieta and C.T. English schools and
students.

Measure H is an investment in our mountain schools. If Measure H is approved, our
local investment will be on par with current levels of investment that Lakeside, Los
Gatos and other nearby communities make in their schools.

Good schools protect local property values and contribute to a strong community.

Our mountain schools matter; help protect them. PLEASE, VOTE YES on H.

s/ Shannon Murphy Hickok

Board President, Loma Prieta School District

s/ Neil Wiley

Editor, Mountain Network News
s/ Alexander Leman

Chief, Loma Prieta Volunteer Fire & Rescue
s/ Patricia Hughes

Assistant Principal, Los Gatos High School, Retired

s/ Stephen Glauz-Todrank
Minister, Skyland Community Church

(No arguments against Measure H were submitted)

Full Text of Measure H
INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To support high academic achievement for local students, retain highly qualified and
experienced teachers, maintain outstanding core academic programs in reading,
writing, math, and science, and prepare students for an excellent high school, the Loma
Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District (K-8) proposes to establish an education
parcel tax for a period of seven years, beginning July 1,2014, at the rate of $164 per
year, on each assessor's parcel located within the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary
School District, with an exemption available for senior citizens and persons on
Supplemental Security Income, and to implement accountability measures in
connection with the temporary levy to ensure the funds are used to:

• retain highly qualified and experienced teachers;

•	maintain outstanding core academic education programs in reading, writing,
math, and science; and

•	prepare students for an excellent high school.

The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account
created by the District.

DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"

For purposes of the special tax, the term "Parcel" means any parcel of land which lies
wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary
School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valoremproperty taxes from the
Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector's office or the Santa Cruz County
Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are
levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the
education parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this special tax, any such "Parcels" which are (i) contiguous, (ii)
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held
under identical ownership may, by annually submitting an application of the
owners thereof by June 1 of each year to the District be treated as a single
"parcel" for purposes of the levy of this education parcel tax.

EXEMPTION OF SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (bj, any owners of a Parcel
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either

(a)	65 years of age or older or (bj persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for
a disability, regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from the education parcel tax
by submitting an application by June 1 of any year to the District.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Clara
County and the Santa Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector, respectively, or other
appropriate County tax officials shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or
relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to
matters specific to the levy of the education parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen and
SSI Exemptions and the classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax,
the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset any
increase in local, state or federal government sources that would otherwise be
available to the District during the period of the education parcel tax. In the event that
the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District shall cease the levy or shall
reduce the education parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the
amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1
and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the
education parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes
of the education parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of
the education parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified
above; [c] a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the
education parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made
to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and
expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any
projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the
education parcel tax, as identified above. The District will also establish a citizens'
oversight committee to review the expenditure of education parcel tax revenues.