Agenda Item

DATE:

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

September 10, 2013
Board of Supervisors

Brandi L. Orth, County Clerk/Registrar of Voters

City of Huron and City of Selma’s Request for County to Conduct Consolidated
Municipal Election

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

Adopt a Resolution approving the City of Huron and City of Selma’s request for the
County Clerk/Registrar of Voters to conduct a Consolidated Municipal Election on
November 5, 2013.

On July 3, 2013 and August 7, 2013 the City of Huron executed Resolution Nos. 1807 and 1813
calling a Municipal Election on November 5, 2013 for Measure P: Huron Police Safety and Crime
Prevention Measure. On July 1, 2013 and August 4, 2013 the City of Selma executed
Resolution Nos. 2013-32R and 2013-41R calling a Municipal Election on November 5. 2013 for
Measure K: City of Selma Transient Occupancy Tax Increase Measure. The Cities request the
elections be consolidated with the Uniform District Election Law (UDEL) election and conducted
by the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters.

ALTERNATIVE ACTIONfs):

If the recommended action is not approved, it would be the responsibility of the City of Huron
and the City of Selma, separately, to conduct their elections. Historically, both cities have
submitted an executed resolution for each of their past municipal elections requesting the
County Clerk/Registrar of Voters conduct the election. The County Clerk/Registrar of Voters has
provided those services and the cities, upon receipt of an invoice, has reimbursed the County for
past election costs.

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE REVIEW.

board action: date	September 10, 2013

Deputy

Y

UNANIMOUS A	BORGEAS_________ CASE

APPROVED AS RECOMMENDED

LARSON__________ PEREA

X

Page ' of
OTHER_____________

POOCHIGIAN

Board of Supervisors
Date: September 10, 2013
Page 2

FISCAL IMPACT:

There is no increase in net county cost related to the recommended action. The City of Huron
and the City of Selma have agreed, by resolution, to reimburse the County for all costs related to
the conduct of the November 5, 2013 Consolidated Municipal Election. The estimated cost
range for the City of Huron and City of Selma Consolidated Municipal Elections is $60,000 to
$90,000.

The total estimated UDEL election cost (for both cities and 4 Special Districts) is estimated at
$128,550 and is included in the Department’s FY 2013-2014 budget.

IMPACTS ON JOB CREATION:

Approval of the recommended action will have no impact on job creation.
DISCUSSION:

City of Huron:

On July 3, 2013 the Huron City Council passed Resolution No. 1807 and on August 7, 2013
passed Supplemental Resolution No. 1813 (attached) calling a municipal election for Measure
P: Huron Police Safety and Crime Prevention Measure. The municipal election would be held
on November 5, 2013 and consolidated with the UDEL election.

The City of Huron requests the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters conduct the election
and provide any and all necessary services for the conduct of the election. In Resolution No.
1813 the City of Huron consents to reimburse the County for costs incurred by the Registrar of
Voters for said services. The estimated cost range for the City’s November 5, 2013
Consolidated Municipal Election is $15,000 to $25,000.

City of Selma:

On July 1, 2013 the Selma City Council passed Resolution No. 2013-32R and on August 4, 2013
passed Supplemental Resolution 2013-41R (attached) calling a municipal election for Measure
K: City of Selma Transient Occupancy Tax Increase Measure. The municipal election would be
held on November 5, 2013 and consolidated with the UDEL election.

The City of Selma requests the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters conduct the election
and provide any and all necessary services for the conduct of the election. In Supplemental
Resolution No. 2013-41R, City of Selma consents to reimburse the County for costs incurred by
the Registrar of Voters for said services. The estimated cost range for the November 5, 2013
Consolidated Municipal Election is $45,000 - $65,000.

In accordance with Election Code 10002, these requests are subject to the approval of the
Board of Supervisors.

FC-017 (eForms-0904)

Board of Supervisors
Date: September 10, 2013
Page 3

The two city measures will be consolidated with the November 5, 2013 UDEL election for the
following Districts:

Calwa Recreation and Park District
Malaga County Water
Easton Community Service District
Orange Cove Police Protection District

Election Code 10520 states “each district involved in a general district election ... shall
reimburse the county for the actual costs incurred by the county elections official

OTHER REVIEWING AGENCIES:

This agenda item has been forwarded to the City Clerks of Huron and Selma.

FC-017 (eForms-0904)

RESOLUTION NO. 1807

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HURON
APPROVING AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING A ONE PERCENT (1%)
SPECIAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY PURPOSES TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION; ORDERING
THAT THE MEASURE TO ADOPT THE SPECIAL TAX BE SUBMITTED TO THE
VOTERS OF THE CITY AT A REGULARLY SCHEDULED GENERAL ELECTION TO
BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 5, 2013, AND DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY
TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF THE MEASURE

The City Council of the City of Huron hereby finds as follows:

WHEREAS, violent crime, drug trafficking, and gangs are serious problems in the
City of Huron and increasing the number of Police Officers will reduce or better control
the occurrence of that type of criminal behavior and will keep children off the streets and
out of trouble; and

WHEREAS, hiring more police officers is critical to the effort of the City of Huron
to suppress, prevent or control violent criminal activity, drug trafficking and gang activity
in the City of Huron and preventing, suppressing or reducing such criminal activity is
essential to creating safe neighborhoods in the City of Huron as is increasing the police
presence in our neighborhoods, parks and schools; and

WHEREAS, the City of Huron’s public safety services have not kept up with
needs of the City with respect to the suppression, control or elimination of criminal
activity because existing local funds are not sufficient to address those needs or provide
for additional police officers, and equipment necessary for operating an effective police
department; and

WHEREAS, §7285.91 of the California Welfare & Taxation Code authorizes the
City to levy, increase or extend a transactions and use tax (“sales tax" or “sales and use
tax”) at a rate of 0.125% or any multiple thereof, for specific purposes as set by the City
subject to the approval by a two-thirds vote of all of the members of the City Council and
by a two-thirds vote of the qualified voters of the City voting in an election on the issue.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Huron hereby resolves as
follows:

Section 1. Pursuant to its right, power and authority under the laws of the State of
California and the Huron Municipal Code, the City Council hereby calls and gives notice
of a municipal election to be held on November 5, 2013, to be consolidated with the
State-wide General Election held on the same date.

Section 2. The City Council does hereby order submitted to the voters that such
municipal election following Measure:

Measure P:

“Huron Police Safety and Crime Prevention Measure.

To hire additional police officers for crime suppression

and prevention, increase police patrols to protect

neighborhoods, schools and parks and to purchase necessary YES

related equipment or facilities to expand police protection	______

services, shall the City of Huron enact a one cent (10) sales tax NO

requiring that revenues received from such sales tax be used	______

exclusively for public safety purposes.”

Section 3. By a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of its full membership, the City
Council hereby approves the proposed ordinance to be submitted to the voters as
attached hereto as Exhibit "A” and incorporated herein by reference. The proposed
measure is a special tax as defined in Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, an
additional Transaction and Use Tax to be collected by the Board of Equalization at a
rate of $0.01 and shall not take effect unless and until approved by a vote of at least
two-thirds (2/3’s) of the voters voting on the question at the said Special Election.

Section 4. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held
and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections. All persons qualified
and registered to vote in the City of Huron as of the date of the election shall be entitled
to vote.

Section 5. The City Clerk is directed to forward copies of the measure to be voted on
at the Special Election to the City Attorney for the preparation of an impartial analysis in
compliance with applicable law.

Section 6. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution
and shall enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED this 3rd day of July, 2013.

The foregoing Resolution was duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Huron City
Council on this 3rd day of July 2013, by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS	Plasencia,	Morales,	Rodriguez,	Pimentel,	Chavez

NAYS:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS	None

ABSTAIN:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS	None

ABSENT:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS	None

ORDINANCE NO. 366

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF HURON
REPEALING AND REENACTING CHAPTER 3.12 OF TITLE III OF
THE HURON MUNICIPAL CODE, ENACTING A SPECIAL ONE CENT
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HURON DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Chapter 3.16 of Title III of the Huron Municipal Code is hereby repealed and
reenacted to read as follows:

“3.16.010. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Huron Public Safety Special
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Huron hereinafter shall be called
“City”. This Ordinance shall be applicable to the incorporated territory of the City.

3.16.020. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the
date of such adoption being as set forth below.

3.16.030. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:

A.	To impose a special retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the enactment of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by
the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

EXHIBIT “A”

1

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in
a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.16.404.	CONTRACT	WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City

shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if
the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.16.050.	TRANSACTIONS	TAX	RATE.	For the privilege of selling

tangible personal property at retail, a special tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in
the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after
the operative date of this ordinance. Such tax shall be in addition to any other
transactions tax imposed by this Code or applicable State law.

3.16.060.	PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail

sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place
or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.16.070.	USE	TAX	RATE.	An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,

use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said, territory at the rate of 1% of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or
use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. Such special tax shall be in
addition to any other use tax imposed by this Code or applicable State law.

3.16.080.	ADOPTION	OF	PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as

otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set
forth herein.

2

3.16.090.	LIMITATIONS	ON	ADOPTION	OF	STATE	LAW	AND

COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of. the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

3.16.100.	PERMIT	NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a

retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.16.110.	EXEMPTIONS	AND	EXCLUSIONS.

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales

3

B. There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee
at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax enacted by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

4

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited
to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the

storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

5-2.5-12. AMENDMENTS.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by
this ordinance unless any increase in the rate of this tax is first approved by 2/3 of the
voters of the City of Huron voting on such question.

B.	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9217 or any successor
statute, the City Council of the City of Huron may amend or repeal this ordinance and
any of its exhibits, but not increase or extend the rate of tax imposed herein, without a
vote of the people.

3.16.130.	ENJOINING	COLLECTION	FORBIDDEN.	No	injunction or writ

of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.16.140.	SEVERABILITY.	If	any	provision	of	this	ordinance or the

application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall
not be affected thereby.

3.16.150. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS AND EXPENDITURE PLAN. All proceeds
of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be accounted for and paid into a Public
Safety Fund or special account designated for use by the City of Huron only for the
Public Safety Services and expenditures. All revenues net of expenses derived from the
tax must be expended exclusively for the support of the Huron Police Department
according to this Expenditure Plan. The revenues from the tax may be expended on the
payment of salaries and benefits of sworn peace officers of the City of Huron and/or the
payment of the costs of equipment and capital improvements required for the operation of
the Huron Police Department. The funds are to be exclusively utilized for public safety,
police protection services, within the City of Huron. No funds can be taken by the State
or another government agency - all funds can only be spent within the City of Huron for
the purposes of improving Public Safety. These purposes include: obtaining, furnishing,
operating, and/or maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, paying the
salaries and benefits of police protection personnel, and such other police protection
service expenses as are deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of the safety
of residents of the City and consistent with this Expenditure Plan. No revenues collected
pursuant to the tax levied may be spent on department administrators’ salaries, or General

6

Section 2. EFFECTIVE DATE.. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect 10 days following
certification of the vote by the City Council.

Section 3. The City Clerk shall certify the passage of this ordinance, publish the
same as required by applicable law, and forward a copy of the adopted ordinance to the
Board of Equalization.

I, Juanita Veliz, City Clerk of the City of Huron do hereby certify that the foregoing
Ordinance was introduced at the June 5, 2013, regular City Council meeting and adopted
at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Huron on the 3rd day of July, 2013
by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS

NOES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS

ABSTENTION: COUNCIL MEMBERS
ABSENT:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS

ATTEST:

Sylvia V. Chavez
Mayor of the City of Huron

Juanita M. Veliz

City Clerk of the City of Huron

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

7

Neal E. Costanzo, City Attorney

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the voters of Huron at an election held November
2013.

ATTEST:

Sylvia V. Chavez
Mayor of the City of Huron

Juanita M. Veliz

City Clerk of the City of Huron

8

RESOLUTION NO. 1813	FyEJp^COUNIY	CLERK

A SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNoSot	DEPUTY

THE CITY OF HURON ORDERING THAT MEASURE P, A ONE-PERCENT
SALES AND USE TAX FOR IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY BE
PLACED ON THE NOVEMBER 5, 2013, UNIFORM DISTRICT ELECTION BALLOT

The City Council of the City of Huron hereby finds as follows;

WHEREAS, on July 3, 2013, the City Council of the City of Huron adopted
Resolution No. 1807 approving City of Huron Ordinance No. 366, a one percent (1%)
transactions and use tax (sales tax) [Revenue and Taxation Code §7285.91] for the
improvement of public safety, and ordering that the measure designated as Measure ‘P’
by the Resolution No. 1807 be placed on the November 5, 2013, ballot; and

WHEREAS, the County Clerk/Registrar of Voters has requested that the City
Council clarify the City’s order requesting that the measure be placed on the ballot;

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Huron desires to, and by the
Resolution does, clarify Resolution No. 1807, placing Measure P on the November 5,
2013, ballot.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HURON HEREBY
RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

1.	That the foregoing facts are true and correct.

2.	The intended purpose of this Resolution is to supplement and clarify
Resolution No. 1807 and not to surplant or supersede Resolution No. 1807.

3.	The City of Huron hereby requests that the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar
of Voters conduct the election and that the measure, described as Measure “P” be
voted on and consolidated with the November 5, 2013, Uniform District Election
(“UDEL”) or any and all elections also called to be held on November 5, 2013, insofar as
said elections are to be held in the same territory or any territory that is in part the same
as the territory of the County of Fresno, pursuant to Elections Code §§10401 and
10403:

4.	The ballot question for the measure, abbreviated to 75 words or less, not
including the words ‘yes’ or ‘no’ appears in Resolution No. 1807 and reads as follows:

O

“Huron Police Safety and Crime Prevention Measure.

To hire additional police officers for crime suppression and
prevention, increased police patrols to protect neighborhoods,
schools and parks and to purchase necessary related equipment or
facilities to expand police protection services, shall the City of
Huron enact a One Cent ($0.01) sales taxes requiring that
revenues receive from such sales tax be used exclusively for public
safety purposes?

Yes _____________ No______”

5.	The City of Huron hereby authorizes the Fresno County Elections Office to
provide any and all necessary services for the conduct of the election and agrees to pay
the County of Fresno all costs associated with said election.

6.	The City of Huron requests the election be conducted as a traditional
election and not a mail-only election.

7.	The City requests that the full text of the measure (Ordinance No. 366) is
to be printed in the sample ballot and voters pamphlet.

**********

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 7th day of August 2013.

The foregoing Resolution was duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Huron
City Council on the 7th day of August, 2013, by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS	Pimentel, Rodriguez, Plasencia, Chavez

NAYS:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS	None

ABSTAIN:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS	None

ABSENT:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS	Morales

2

The undersigned Juanita M. Veliz, City Clerk of the applicant does hereby attest and
certify that the foregoing is a true and full copy of a Resolution of the Governing Board
of the applicant passed and adopted at a duly convened meeting on the date set forth
above, and said Resolution has not been altered, amended, or repealed.

ATTEST:

3

RESOLUTION NO. 2013 - 32R

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SELMA
APPROVING AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE V, CHAPTER 15,
SECTIONS 1 and 3 (5-15-1 AND 5-15-3) OF THE SELMA MUNICIPAL CODE

INCREASING THE RATE OF THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX FROM
6% TO 12%; ORDERING THAT THE MEASURE TO INCREASE

THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

OF THE CITY AT THE REGULAR, GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD
ON NOVEMBER 5, 2013, AND DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY
TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF THE MEASURE

The City Council of the City of Selma hereby finds as follows:

WHEREAS, Title V, Chapter 15 of the Selma Municipal Code provides for a
Transient Occupancy Tax to be imposed for the privilege of occupancy in any room, in
any hotel, inn, tourist home, house, motel or other lodging in the amount of 6% of the
rent charged by the operator which became effective on January 1, 1983, and the rate
of the tax thereby imposed has not been increased since that date; and

WHEREAS, the City of Selma's population has grown more than 25% in the last
ten years and occupancy rates of hotels and other lodging has similarly increased and
the need for and cost of city services as a result of persons occupying hotels within the
city has increased so that revenues created by the existing transient room tax of 6% of
the charges by the operator is inadequate to cover the cost of city services, including
public safety services, generated by the existence of persons occupying hotels within
the City; and

WHEREAS, section 7280 of the Revenue and Taxation Code authorizes any city
to levy a tax on the privilege of occupying a room or rooms, or other living space, in any
room, hotel, inn, tourist home, house, motel or other lodging, unless occupancy is for a
period of more than thirty days, and Revenue and Taxation Code section7285.9 permits
the governing body of any city to increase a tax imposed for general purposes if the
Ordinance proposing the tax increase is approved by a two thirds vote of all members of
the governing body and the tax is approved by a majority vote of qualified voters of the
city voting in an election on the issue.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SELMA HEREBY
RESOLVES as follows:

Section 1. Pursuant to its right, power and authority under the laws of the
State of California and the Selma Municipal Code, including but not limited to the
aforementioned provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code and California Elections
Code Section 9222, the City Council hereby calls and gives notice of a municipal
election to be held in the city on November 5, 2013, to be consolidated with the
statewide general election to be held on the same date and placement on the ballot at
said election the proposition referred to below for approval of an amendment to Title V,

Chapter 15, Sections 1 and 3 (5-15-1 and 5-15-3) of the Selma Municipal Code,
entitled, Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance, increasing the rate of tax imposed from
6% to 12% of the rent charged by the operator of any hotel, inn, tourist home, house
motel or similar lodging for occupancy for a period of less than thirty days.

Section 2. The City Council does hereby order submitted to the voters at such
Municipal Election the following measure:

MEASURE K:

"City of Selma Transient Occupancy Tax	YES	______

Increase Measure: Shall the City of Selma
increase the existing transient occupancy tax

for the privilege of occupancy in any room,	NO	______

hotel, inn, motel or other lodging, for
occupancy for a period of less than 30 days,
from 6% to 12% of the rent charged by the
operator of such lodging"?

Section 3. By a vote of at least two thirds of its full membership, the council
hereby approves the proposed Ordinance to be submitted to the voters, following a
public hearing duly noticed according to applicable law, attached as Exhibit "A" and
incorporated herein by reference. The proposed measure is for the increase of a
general tax as defined in Article XIIIC of the California Constitution and shall not take
effect unless and until approved by a vote of the majority of the voters voting on the
question at that aforementioned, Municipal and statewide general election.

Section 4. In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections. All persons
qualified and registered to vote in the city of Selma as of the date of the election shall be
entitled to vote.

Section 5. The City Clerk is directed to forward copies of this measure to be
voted on at the special election to the City Attorney for the preparation of an impartial
analysis in compliance with applicable law.

Section 6. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and shall enter it into the book of original resolutions.

**********

2

I, Reyna Rivera, City Clerk to the City of Selma do hereby certify that the
foregoing Resolution was adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of
Selma on July	1, 2013, by the following	vote:

AYES:	5	COUNCIL MEMBERS:	Derr, Rodriguez, Avalos, Robertson, Grey

NOES:	0	COUNCIL MEMBERS:	None

ABSTAIN:	0	COUNCIL MEMBERS:	None

ABSENT:	0	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:	None

Kenneth Grey, Mayor of the City of Selma

ATTEST:

ElJffK/ tm

Reyna Rivera

City Clerk of the City of Selma

Passed and Adopted by the Voters of the City of Selma on November 5, 2013

Kenneth Grey, Mayor of the City of Selma

ATTEST:

Reyna Rivera

City Clerk of the City of Selma

AUG 0 6 2013

CLERK
DEPUTY

3

AUG 0 6 2013

RESOLUTION NO. 2013-41R Bv	CLERK

A SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OFTHE CITY OI?EPUTY
SELMA ORDERING THAT A MEASURE INCREASING THE TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS OF THE CITY ON
NOVEMBER 5,2013, UNIFORM DISTRICT ELECTION

The City Council of the City of Selma hereby finds as follows:

WHEREAS, On July 1, 2013, the City Council of the City of Selma adopted
Resolution No. 2013-32R approving Ordinance No. 2013-4, an ordinance of the voters
of the City of Selma amending Sections 1 and 3 of Title V, Chapter 15 of the Selma
Municipal Code (Sections 5-15-1 and 5-15-3) increasing the rate of the Transient
Occupancy Tax from 6% to 12% and ordering that the measure increasing said tax be
submitted to the voters of the City at the regular, general election to be held on
November 5, 2013; and

WHEREAS, Resolution No. 2013-32R and Ordinance No. 2013-4 together with
an impartial analysis of the Measure were submitted to the County Clerk/Registrar of
Voters on July 30, 2013, and the County Clerk requested that the City Council clarify
Resolution No. 2313-32R to include specific information apparently of interest to the
County Clerk/Registered Voters; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Selma desires to, and by this
Resolution does, clarify Resolution No. 2013-32R, placing Measure K on the November
5, 2013, ballot.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SELMA HEREBY
RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

1.	That the foregoing facts are true and correct.

2.	The intended purpose of this Resolution is to supplement and clarify
Resolution No. 2013-32R and not to surplant or supersede Resolution No.
2013-32R.

3.	The City of Selma hereby requests that the Fresno County Clerk/Registrar
of Voters conduct the election and that the measure, designated as
Measure “K” in Resolution 2013-32R be voted on and consolidated with
the November 5, 2013, Uniform District Election (“UDEL”) or any and all
elections also called to be held on November 5, 2013, insofar as said

00011946.WPD;2

elections are to be held in the same territory or any territory that is in part
the same as the territory of the County of Fresno, pursuant to Elections
Code §§10401 and 10403.

4.	The City of Selma hereby requests that the Fresno County Elections
Office conduct the election and provide any and all necessary services for
the conduct of the election and agrees to pay the County of Fresno all
costs associated with said election.

5.	That the full text of ordinance that would be approved on passage of the
measure (Ordinance No. 2013-4) is to be printed in the sample ballot and
voters pamphlet.

6.	The Measure is one increasing a general tax and as such requires a
majority vote of the voters voting in the election, fifty percent (50%) plus,
one (1). The City requires the election be a traditional one with ballots and
polling places. The City does not request a mail only election.

7.	The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution
and shall enter it into the book of original resolutions.

I, Reyna Rivera, City Clerk to the City of Selma do hereby certify that the
foregoing Resolution was adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of
Selma on August 5, 2013, by the following vote:

AYES:	5

NOES:	0

ABSTAIN: 0
ABSENT:	0

COUNCIL MEMBERS
COUNCIL MEMBERS
COUNCIL MEMBERS
COUNCIL MEMBERS

Attest:

|W iMhL

Reyna Kivera
City Clerk

Avalos, Rodriguez, Derr, Robertson, Grey
None
None
None

Mayor of the City of Selma