CITY OF SAN RAFAEL MEASURE E	
MEASURE E: Shall the City of San Rafael extend the existing one- half percent local sales tax and in- crease the rate by one-quarter percent to provide funding that cannot be taken by tl can be used to preserve essential city st period of 20 years, including: maintaining gency police/fire response times, maintain numbers of on-duty firefighters/param* ensuring earthquake safe police/fire statioi ing community centers and repairing city	YES  NO  ie State, and ‘rvices for a ; rapid emer- ing adequate sdics/police, is, maintain- streets?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE E

In 2005, the voters of San Rafael approved the estab-
lishment of a retail transactions and use tax within the City
at a rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%). That tax cur-
rently is in effect and generates funds that are deposited
into the City’s General Fund, and it is scheduled to expire
by its terms in 2016.

If approved by the voters, this measure would amend
the San Rafael Municipal Code by replacing the existing
transactions and use tax with a new transactions and use
tax that would set the retail transactions and use tax rate at
three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) in the City. This
measure effectively would increase the current tax rate by
an additional one-quarter of one percent (0.25%). At this
rate, for example, a transaction amounting to $100 in
value would generate a tax of 75 cents.

The proposed transactions and use tax would be imposed
upon the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail
within the City as well as on all tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer outside the City for storage, use
or other consumption within the City. This measure would
authorize the City, as required by law, to contract with the
State Board of Equalization to administer and collect the tax.
A person subject to a City use tax is entitled to a credit against
the tax for a transactions tax paid under any other state-
administered transactions and use taxes ordinance.

This measure requires all proceeds of the tax to be de-
posited into the City’s General Fund to be used for all
general municipal governmental purposes in the City’s
discretion.

This measure would provide several enumerated
exemptions and exclusions from the transactions and use
tax. It further would prohibit the issuance of any injunc-
tion against collection of the tax, as well as provide for a
citizens oversight committee to be appointed by the City
Council to review the collection and expenditures of tax
revenues generated by the tax. The measure would provide
that the City’s authority to impose this tax would expire 20
years after its operative date.

The ordinance proposed by this measure will only
become effective if approved by a simple majority of
those electors voting on the measure.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

s/ROBERT F. EPSTEIN
City Attorney of San Rafael

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
or Measure E. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or
measure, please call the elections official’s office at (415)
485-3066 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you

SRE-1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Vote YES on Measure E to Ensure a Safe San Rafael.

YES on E gives San Rafael LOCAL control over LOCAL
funds for LOCAL needs. Every penny stays here in San
Rafael and NONE of these funds can be taken by Sacramento!
Measure E helps our City protect our quality of life:
Measure E renews expiring local funding that is essential
for preserving vital city services like rapid emergency re-
sponse. It also addresses urgent seismic safety upgrades
needed at the facilities that house San Rafael’s first re-
sponders.

Specifically, voting YES on E will:

•	Maintain rapid emergency response times for po-
lice, fire and emergency services

•	Maintain adequate numbers of on-duty firefighters
and police officers

•	Provide earthquake safe fire and emergency dis-
patch facilities

•	Prevent the closure of fire stations and community
centers

If Measure E doesn’t pass, the City will be forced to make
significant cuts to emergency medical response, firefighting,
police patrols, and other vital services that we all rely upon.
It is well documented that several San Rafael fire stations
and the building that houses our local emergency dispatch
center do not meet modem seismic standards. In the event
of a disaster, fire engines, paramedic units, life-saving
equipment and personnel may be severely delayed or un-
able to respond. Measure E allows San Rafael to address
these urgent problems before a disaster occurs.

Measure E features strict fiscal accountability:

•	By law, all funds must stay local - nothing can be
taken by the State

•	All expenditures must be reviewed by an Indepen-
dent Citizens’ Oversight Committee composed of
San Rafael residents

•	Annual financial audits and public reports are
mandatory

San Rafael’s most trusted leaders urge a YES vote,
including:

•	San Rafael’s Fire Chief and Firefighters

•	San Rafael’s Chief of Police and Police Officers

•	San Rafael’s Mayor and entire City Council

•	Dozens of local business leaders, neighborhood
leaders and longtime San Rafael residents

Vote YES on Measure E to keep San Rafael safe.
s/CHRISTOPHER R. GRAY
San Rafael Fire Chief
s/PAT KENDALL
Citizen of the Year, 2013
s/GARY PHILLIPS
Mayor

s/STEPHEN MIZROCH, MD
Fire Commission Chair
s/JARED HUFFMAN
US Congressman, 2nd District, San Rafael Resident

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E
WAS SUBMITTED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

ORDINANCE NO. 1913
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
AMENDING CHAPTER 3.19 OF THE SAN
RAFAEL MUNICIPAL CODE EXTENDING AND
INCREASING THE EXISTING TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, SUBJECT TO
APPROVAL OF A MAJORITY OF THE ELECTORS
VOTING ON THE TAX MEASURE AT THE GEN-
ERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5,2013.

The City Council of the City of San Rafael hereby
makes the following findings in connection with the adop-
tion of this Ordinance:

DIVISION 1.

WHEREAS, In 2005, the San Rafael community
voted in favor of Measure S, adding Chapter 3.19 to the
San Rafael Municipal Code establishing a local transac-
tions and use tax ( i.e.sales tax) to protect vital city ser-
vices from budget cuts; and

WHEREAS, the City has used these funds for a num-
ber of purposes, including maintaining rapid emergency
response times, adequate numbers of on-duty police offi-
cers and firefighters and many additional core City ser-
vices; and

WHEREAS, this one-half of one percent (0.5%) in-
crease in our local sales tax accounts for approximately
12% of the City’s General Fund budget, has been shielded
from State appropriation, and has stayed in San Rafael to
benefit local residents; and

WHEREAS, given the fiscal challenges that all cities
have faced in recent years, Measure S proved essential for
protecting vital city services in San Rafael from budget
cuts; and

WHEREAS, since the 2008 Great Recession, the City
has been critically evaluating its priorities and strategies
for providing quality community services with new fiscal
constraints. To increase efficiency and work on a leaner
budget, the City has established new partnerships with
other agencies to increase shared services, streamlined
regulations to promote a positive business climate, cut
over 60 staff positions, temporarily reduced compensation
for most staff, reformed pensions, and scaled back
employee retiree health benefits. The City will continue to
analyze which services are a priority, and the most cost-
effective method of delivering these services; and

WHEREAS, Measure S funding is scheduled to ex-
pire, and if the City were to address this loss of locally-
controlled funding with expenditure reductions alone it
would have to consider cuts to police patrols, firefighters
and emergency response, street and sidewalk repair, parks
and community centers, and curtail access to libraries.
Such cuts would be a last resort; however, police and fire
account for more than half of San Rafael’s budget, and in
order to address a deficit of the magnitude that would
occur if Measure S funding were to expire, the City
inevitably would be required to consider cuts to public
safety; and

WHEREAS, even with the current sales tax in effect,
there is not sufficient funding available for several key
infrastructure needs such as seismic improvements for
emergency dispatch as well as fire stations, information
technology needs for improved service delivery, contribu-
tions to the City’s emergency reserves, and other infra-
structure needs identified as “unfunded” in the City’s Five
Year Capital Improvement Program; and

WHEREAS, after the study of the financial issues fac-
ing the City, and following numerous discussions with res-
idents, neighborhood associations and business and ser-
vice groups, and after extensive efforts to gauge the pub-
lic’s opinions and priorities through several surveys of San
Rafael residents, the City Council has determined that the
most prudent, reasonable and financially responsible
action it can take to preserve the fiscal stability of San
Rafael and to protect vital services and facilities in our
City, is to place before the voters a ballot measure to
extend the existing one-half of one percent (0.5%) trans-
actions and use tax for a period of 20 years and increase
the rate by one-quarter of one percent (0.25%), and to rec-
ommend its adoption to the voters; and

WHEREAS, if the increased and extended transac-
tions and use tax is approved by the voters at the munici-
pal election on November 5,2013, the existing tax would
remain in effect until the operative date of the extended
and increased tax.

NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of
San Rafael does hereby Ordain as follows:

DIVISION 2.

Chapter 3.19 of the San Rafael Municipal Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:

Chapter 3.19
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
3.19.010 - Short Title.

This Chapter shall be known as the City of San Rafael
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. This Chapter shall
be applicable only in the incorporated territory of the City.
3.19.015 - Definitions.

As used in this Chapter, “City” means the City of San
Rafael and “tax” means the transactions and use tax im-
posed under the provisions of this Chapter.

3.19.020 - Operative Date.

“Operative Date” means the first day that the tax is
imposed and collected. The Operative Date shall be April
1, 2014, unless a later Operative Date becomes effective
under the provisions of Section 3.19.040.

3.19.030 - Purpose.

This Chapter is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and the City Council directs that
the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accor-
dance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative only if a majority of the electors voting on the

measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Rev-
enue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that
may be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as prac-
ticable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures fol-
lowed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that may be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provi-
sions of this ordinance.

3.19.040 - Contract With State.

Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall contract with
the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this trans-
actions and use tax ordinance; provided however, that if
the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the Operative Date, it shall neverthe-
less so contract and in such a case the Operative Date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract.

3.19.050 - Imposition of Transactions Tax; Transac-
tions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property
at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of three-quar-
ters of one percent (0.75%) of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold
at retail in said territory on and after the Operative Date of
this ordinance.

3.19.060 - Place of Transaction.

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of busi-
ness, the place or places at which the retail sales are con-
summated shall be determined under rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

3.19.070 - Imposition of Use Tax; Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal prop-
erty purchased from any retailer on and after the Operative
Date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consump-
tion in said territory at the rate of three-quarters of one per-
cent (0.75%) of the sales price of the property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to
which delivery is made.

3.19.080 - Proceeds of Tax.

The proceeds of the transactions and use tax imposed
by this Chapter shall be deposited into the General Fund of
the City to be used for all general government purposes
which may include, but are not limited to, fire and police
protection, street and sidewalk repair and maintenance,
library services, park repair and maintenance, recreational
programs, building and code enforcement services, plan-
ning and zoning services, capital equipment requirements,
repair and replacement of City facilities, capital improve-
ment projects, operational expenses, fiduciary responsibil-
ities, administration, indebtedness and general obligations
of the City. The tax imposed by this Chapter is intended to
be and is, a general tax, the proceeds of which are to be
spent as the City Council shall in its discretion, from time
to time, determine.

3.19.090 - Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and ex-
cept insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this Chapter as though
fully set forth herein.

3.19.100 - Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall
be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall
not be made:

1.	When the word “State” is used as a part of the
title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	When the result of that substitution would re-
quire action to be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of
this Chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of
the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption

of tangible personal property which would not otherwise
be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sen-
tence thereof), 6711, 6715 , 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word “City” shall be substituted for the word
“State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this
State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase
in Section 6203.

3.19.110 - Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an addi-
tional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

3.19.120 - Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the calculation of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax
or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City
which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retail-
er or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied.

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commer-
cial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is,
in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by reg-
istration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative
Date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for
which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the Operative Date of
this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by
this Chapter, the storage, use or other consumption in this
City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-adminis-
tered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products pur-
chased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire
or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the Operative Date of this Chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right
or power over, the tangible personal property arises under
a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for
any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to
the Operative Date of this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or posses-
sion of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pur-
suant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the uncondi-
tional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retail-
er engaged in business in the City shall not be required to
collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property
into the City or participates within the City in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, solicit-
ing or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City”
shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented ves-
sels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who regis-
ters or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reim-
bursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage,
use or other consumption of which is subject to the use
tax.

3.19.130 - Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
Chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part
1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, shall automatically become a part of this Chapter,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate
so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Chapter.
3.19.140 - Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equi-
table process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or the City, or against any
officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the col-
lection under this Chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of
tax required to be collected.

3.19.142 - Annual Audit.

The proceeds resulting from this Transaction and Use
Tax shall be deposited into the City’s General Fund and
become subject to the same independent annual audit
requirements as other general fund revenue.

3.19.144 - Independent Citizen Oversight.

A City Transactions and Use Tax Committee, to be
established by the City Council by Resolution, shall
review the collection and expenditure of tax revenues col-
lected under the authority of this Chapter. The Committee
shall consist of at least five members, who shall be resi-
dents of the City. The terms of the Committee members
and their specific duties shall be established by resolution
of the City Council.

3.19.146 - All Funds Staying Local.

All tax revenues collected under the authority of this
Chapter shall be expended solely on local municipal ser-
vices, and shall not be used for any other purposes.
3.19.148 - Effective Date.

This ordinance levying the tax described herein shall
be effective ten days after the date on which the City

SRE-5

Council has declared that the voters of the City of San
Rafael have approved said ordinance by a vote or no less
than a majority of the votes cast by the electors voting on
the tax measure set forth in this ordinance at the general
municipal election to be held on Tuesday, November 5,
2013, and the tax established herein shall become opera-
tive on April 1,2014 or on such later date as provided in
Section 3.19.040.

3.19.150 - Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Chapter
shall expire on March 31, 2034, or at the end of twenty
years from the Operative Date if the Operative Date is
later than April 1,2014 as provided in Section 3.19.040.
DIVISION 3:

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining por-
tions of this Ordinance.

DIVISION 4:

This ordinance shall be published once in full before its
final passage, in a newspaper of general circulation, pub-
lished and circulated in the City of San Rafael.

s/GARY O. PHILLIPS
Mayor

ATTEST:

s/ESTHER BEIRNE
City Clerk

The foregoing Ordinance No. 1913 was read and intro-
duced at a Regular Meeting of the City Council of the City
of San Rafael, held on the 15th day of July, 2013 and
ordered passed to print by the following vote, to wit:
AYES:	Councilmembers:	Colin,	Connolly,	Heller,

McCullough & Mayor
Phillips

NOES:	Councilmembers:	None

ABSENT: Councilmembers: None

and will come up for adoption as an Ordinance of the City

of San Rafael at a Regular Meeting of the Council to be

held on the 5th day of August, 2013, subject to voter

approval at the General Municipal Election to be held on

Tuesday, November 5,2013.

s/ESTHER BEIRNE
City Clerk

SRE-6

RESOLUTION NO. 13586

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF SAN RAFAEL:

1)	RESCINDING RESOLUTION NO. 13572.

2)	ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO THE
ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF SAN RAFAEL,
A BALLOT MEASURE PROPOSING AN
AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 3.19 OF THE
MUNICIPAL CODE OF THE CITY OF SAN
RAFAEL TO EXTEND AND INCREASE THE
EXISTING TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
TO BE HELD TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5,
2013, AS CALLED BY RESOLUTION NO.
13529 AND ORDERING THE PUBLICATION
THEREOF; AND

3)	REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH ANY
OTHER ELECTION CONDUCTED ON THE
SAME DATE; AND

4)	REQUESTING ELECTION SERVICES BY
THE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS; AND

5)	REQUESTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO
PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
THE MEASURE.

WHEREAS, the City Council of San Rafael, by adop-
tion of Resolution No. 13529, has called a general munic-
ipal election to be held on Tuesday, November 5, 2013;
and

WHEREAS, in 2005, the San Rafael Community
voted in favor of Measure S, adding Chapter 3.19 to the
San Rafael Municipal Code establishing a local transac-
tions and use tax of one-half of one percent.

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined to sub-
mit to the voters at the general municipal election on
November 5, 2013, a ballot measure proposing an ordi-
nance amending the Municipal Code of the City of San
Rafael, to extend and increase the existing transactions
and use tax within the City by one-quarter of one percent,
raising 75 cents on each $100 of retail transactions, so as
to increase funding for the City’s provision of general
municipal services.

NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF SAN RAFAEL DOES HEREBY RE-
SOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1:	City	Council Resolution No. 13572 is

hereby rescinded.

Section 2:	The	City Council, pursuant to its right and

authority and pursuant to the laws of the State of Califor-
nia and the Charter of the City of San Rafael, does hereby
order submitted to the electors of the City of San Rafael at
the general municipal election to be held Tuesday, Novem-
ber 5, 2013, the following measure, to wit:

CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
MEASURE__________

“Shall the City of San Rafael extend the yj^S

existing one-half percent local sales tax ____________

and increase the rate by one-quarter per-

cent to provide funding that cannot be |______________

taken by the State, and can be used to preserve essen-
tial city services for a period of 20 years, including:
maintaining rapid emergency police/fire response times,
maintaining adequate numbers of on-duty firefighters/
paramedics/police, ensuring earthquake safe police/fire
stations, maintaining community centers and repairing
city streets?”

Section 3: A copy of the ordinance establishing the
transaction and use tax of three-fourths of one percent,
which ordinance is to be submitted to the electors of the
City of San Rafael at the general municipal election to be
held on Tuesday November 5, 2013, is attached hereto as
Exhibit “A”.

Section 4: The Board of Supervisors of the County of
Marin, is hereby requested to:

A.	Consolidate said election with any other election
conducted on the same day; and

B.	Authorize and direct the County Clerk, at City ex-
pense, to provide the following election services and to
canvass the results of said election:

■	Provide Voter Indexes

■	Provide Drayage and Rental of Polling Places

■	Provide Printing of Sample and Official Ballots

■	Provide Printing of Measures and Arguments

■	Appoint and Notify Election Officers

■	Mail Sample Ballots and Polling Place Notifica-
tion

■	Provide Precinct Supplies

■	Provide Training of Precinct Workers

■	Provide Processing of Vote By Mail Ballots

■	Provide Canvass of Votes Cast

■	Provide such other services as are necessary to
conduct the General Municipal Election

Section 5:	The	ballots	to	be	used	at	the election shall

be in both form and content as required by law.

Section 6:	The	polls	for	said election shall be opened

at seven o’clock (7:00 a.m.) of the day of said election and
shall remain open continuously from said time until eight
o’clock (8:00 p.m.) of the same day when said polls shall
be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

Section 7:	In	all particulars not recited in this

Resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as
provided by law for holding municipal elections in said
City.

Section 8:	Notice of the time and place of holding

the election is hereby given and the City Clerk is hereby
authorized, instructed and directed to give such further or

additional notice of said election in time, form, and man-
ner as required by law.

Section 9:	Pursuant to Elections Code section 9285,

the City Council of the City of San Rafael hereby directs
the City Clerk to accept rebuttal arguments submitted to
the Clerk within ten (10) days after the final date for filing
direct arguments.

Section 10: Pursuant to California Elections Code
Section 9280, the City Council of the City of San Rafael
hereby directs the City Attorney to prepare an impartial
analysis of said ballot Measure.

Section 11: This Resolution of the City Council sub-
mitting to the electors of the City of San Rafael this ballot
measure establishing a transactions and use tax at the gen-
eral municipal election to be held Tuesday, November 5,
2013, shall be effective upon adoption by the Council.

Section 12: The City Clerk is directed to submit a cer-
tified copy of this Resolution to the Board of Supervisors
of the County of Marin.

I, ESTHER C. BEIRNE, Clerk of the City of San
Rafael, hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was
duly and regularly introduced and adopted at a regular
meeting of the Council of said City on Monday, the 5th of
August, 2013 by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS: Colin, Connolly	&

Vice-Mayor Heller
NOES:	COUNCILMEMBERS: None

ABSENT: COUNCILMEMBERS: McCullough and

Mayor Phillips
s/ESTHER C. BEIRNE
City Clerk