BP

San Rafael High School District parcel
tax, Measure B (May 2013)

A San Rafael High School District parcel tax, Measure B ballot question was on the May 7,

2013 ballot for voters in the San Rafael High School District in Marin County, where it was
approved.[1]

The election was held on a mail-in basis only, with ballots going out on April 8 and returned by
May 7 to count.

The parcel tax in question has been in effect for 24 years. It is currently set at $139-per-
parcel/per-year. The school district is allowed to increase the amount of the tax every year by
5%.[1]

An election on a San Rafael Elementary School District parcel tax, Measure A ballot question is
on the same May 7, 2013 ballot.

Election results

Measure B		
Result	Votes	Percentage
v' Yes	12,513	79.08%
No	3,310	20.92%

These final, certified results are from Marin County elections office.

I Text of measure

The question on the ballot:

Question: To protect quality education at San Rafael
and Terra Linda High Schools with stable local funding
the State can’t take away, including: enhancing math,
science, technology, music and fine art instruction;
maintaining small class sizes; preparing students for
college and 21st-century careers; and attracting and

retaining quality teachers, shall San Rafael High School
District extend the expiring school parcel tax for eight
years with senior exemptions, independent oversight, no
funds for administrator salaries and all funds staying
local ?[2]

Support

■	Paul Cohen: "We need a stable, local funding source that protects...core services.''^31

■	Rachel Kertz: "This is a community that supports its schools and its kids. To me a parcel
tax is just a small way of telling our kids that we support them and we care about their
future."131

■	Amy Jonak: "This isn't a new tax, it's not a tax increase, it's simply a continued
opportunity to channel local dollars under local control into our local schools."[3]

External links

■ Resolution authorizing the election

Footnotes

Suggest a link

1.	San Rafael Patch, "San Rafael Voters to Consider School Parcel Tax this Spring,"
January 30, 2013

2.	Note: This text is quoted verbatim from the original source. Any inconsistencies are
attributed to the original source.

3.	Marin Independent-Journal, "San Rafael will vote on school tax renewal this spring,
January 28, 2013

Ballotpedia includes 264,322 encyclopedic articles written and curated by our professional
staff of editors, writers, and researchers. To contact our editorial staff, click here. To report an
error, click here. For media inquiries, you can reach us here. To support our continued

expansion, please contact us here.