BP

San Rafael Elementary School District
parcel tax, Measure A (May 2013)

A San Rafael Elementary School District parcel tax, Measure A ballot question was on the

May 7, 2013 ballot for voters in the San Rafael Elementary School District in Marin County,
where it was approved.[1]

The election was held on a mail-in basis only, with ballots going out on April 8 and returned by
May 7 to count.

The parcel tax in question has been in effect for 24 years. It is currently set at $203.70. The
school district is allowed to increase the amount of the tax every year by 5%.^

An election on a San Rafael High School District parcel tax was on the same May 7, 2013 ballot.

Measure A required a two-thirds (66.67 percent) supermajority vote for passage.

I Election results

Measure A		
Result	Votes	Percentage
V' Yes	7,752	78.64%
No	2,106	21.36%

These final, certified results are from Marin County elections office.

I Text of measure

The question on the ballot:

Measure A: To protect quality education at all San
Rafael elementary and middle schools by maintaining
stable local funding the State can’t take away, including:
enhancing core academic programs like math, science,
and reading; maintaining small class sizes and programs
that support learning; and attracting and retaining high

quality teachers, shall San Rafael Elementary School
District extend the expiring school parcel tax for eight
years with exemptions for seniors, independent citizen
oversight, no funds for administrator salaries and all
funds staying local?[2]

See also

■	Parcel tax elections in California

External links

■	Resolution authorizing the election

Footnotes

Suggest a link

1.	San Rafael Patch, "San Rafael Voters to Consider School Parcel Tax this Spring,"
January 30, 2013

2.	Note: This text is quoted verbatim from the original source. Any inconsistencies are
attributed to the original source.

Only the first few references on this page are shown above. Click to show more.

Ballotpedia includes 264,322 encyclopedic articles written and curated by our professional
staff of editors, writers, and researchers. To contact our editorial staff, click here. To report an
error, click here. For media inquiries, you can reach us here. To support our continued

expansion, please contact us here.