From Ballotpedia

Mojave Unified School District Bond Issue,
Measure C (November 2014)

Ballot question

The question on the ballot:^

H To improve the quality of education for California City students, modernize

infrastructure and classroom technology, improve health and safety, and repay leases
used to build Cal City High in order to reduce operating costs and put more money in
the classroom, shall the Mojave Unified School District School Facilities Improvement
District No. 1 be authorized to issue up to $8,100,000 in bonds at legal interest rates,
with annual audits, a Citizens’ Oversight committee, and no money for salaries?^

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure C:^

Measure C was placed on the ballot by the governing board of the Mojave Unified
School District (“District”). A “Yes” vote by at least fifty-five percent (55%) of the
voters voting on this measure will authorize the issuance and sale of general obligation
bonds for the benefit of the Mojave Unified School District Schools Facilities
Improvement District No. 1 in an amount up to eight million one hundred thousand
dollars ($8,100,000).

Proceeds from the sale of these school bonds may only be used for the specific school
facilities projects listed in the bond project list. The projects include: (1) acquirement of
classroom technology; (2) health, safety, and security upgrades to schools within the
California City; (3) repairs and improvements to school infrastructure for the benefit of
California City students; (4) repayment of interim financing used to construct
California City High School; (5) furnishing and equipping of schools in California
City; and (6) necessary deferred maintenance on facilities.

The proceeds may only be used for a specific list of projects and not for any other
purpose including teacher and administrator salaries and other operating expenses. As
required by law, the District has listed the specific projects to be funded, in whole or in
part, by the bonds. The list of projects is printed in the sample ballot.

The District will conduct an annual independent performance audit, in order to ensure
that the bond proceeds have been expended only on the specific projects listed, and an
annual independent financial audit of the bond proceeds until all of those funds have

been expended. In addition, the District’s Board of Trustees will appoint a Citizens’
Oversight Committee to inform the public concerning the expenditure of bond
revenues.

The bonded debt will be a general obligation of the District and will be financed by
property taxes levied annually on taxable property located within the District in an
amount necessary to pay the annual debt obligation. Approval of the bond measure
does not guarantee that the listed projects will be completed. Certain of the District’s
proposed projects assume the receipt of matching State funds, which could be subject
to appropriation by the State Legislature or approval of a statewide bond measure. The
District’s Tax Rate Statement provides an estimate of the tax rates which will be
applied to fund the bonds issued.121

Kern County Counsel111