BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL  fours'		Official Use Only: Date Stamp  RECEIVED  Alameda County  DEC 05 201? Keg. of Voters
BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION		
Jurisdiction Name:  Piedmont Unified School District	Election Date:  March 5. 2013		

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot

Insert ballot title/question text here:

"To prevent local school funding from expiring and to
maintain the quality of Piedmont's schools, to attract,
train and retain qualified teachers, to protect programs
in math, science and technology, to continue funding for
music, visual and performing arts programs, and to keep
textbooks and instructional technology up-to-date, shall
the Piedmont Unified School District continue to levy a
special tax as specified in the voter pamphlet, with
all funds staying in Piedmont to benefit our schools?"

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

__________TWO THIRDS (66.66%)_______________

FULL TEXT OPTION___________________________

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

El YES (note: electronic version must be submitted via e-mail or on a CD)
□ NO

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)_CONTACT	INFORMATION	(for	public)

Phone #:

Phone #:

510-594-2600

-Mail/Website:

chubbard@piedmont.kl2.ca.us

_____www.pl.-ggqignt.k1 2. ga. VIS____

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

ANALYSIS BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY COUNSEL OF A
PIEDMONT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE

Measure A, a Piedmont Unified School District ("District") special parcel tax measure,
seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy an eight-year special parcel tax in the
amount set forth in the measure on each assessor’s parcel beginning July 1, 2013, to fund the
programs set forth in the measure. The District’s voters previously authorized a special parcel
tax assessment at variable rates that will expire on June 30, 2014. This measure will replace
those variable tax rates with a flat tax rate and extend the special parcel tax assessment
through June 30, 2021.

A school district has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on the special tax proposal. (See Cal. Const. Art. XIII A, § 4; Art. XIII C, §2; Cal.

Gov’t Code §§ 50075-50077, 50079, & 53722.)

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the
funding revenue will be used for the specific purposes set forth in the full text of the measure
printed in this sample ballot. Those purposes include, but are not limited to: teacher
recruitment, training and retention; maintaining textbooks and instructional technology up-to-
date; protecting math, science, and technology programs; and funding music, visual, and
performing arts programs. The monies collected shall be accounted for separately and shall be
expended only for those specified purposes.

If the measure passes, the special tax shall be assessed at the rate of $2,406.00 per
parcel. The Board of Education (“Board”) will determine annually the amount of the levy for the
following fiscal year up to the maximum allowable rate. On an annual basis, the Board may
increase the maximum allowable amount by up to 2% from the previous year.

As part of the annual budget process, the Board shall determine the total amount of the
special tax and its assessed rate as outlined in the measure printed in this sample ballot. The
accountability measures of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3 shall
apply to the special taxes levied under this measure.

The tax will be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same
time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected. Homeowners who
are residing on their property and qualify for Supplemental Security Income (SSI) may be
exempt. Individuals seeking such an exemption must apply to the District on or before July 1 of
each tax year.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the previously-approved special tax assessment at the variable rates will
continue through June 30, 2014.

DONNA R. ZIEGLER
County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure A, which measure is printed in
full in this sample ballot pamphlet. If you desire an additional copy of the measure, please call
the Elections Official's office at (510) 272-6933, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
You may also access the full text of the measure on the Alameda County website at the
following address: www.acqov.org/rov.

Submission of: (select one)

ballot measure argument

UBMISSION FORM

Official Use Only; Dale Stamp

Xa

j Argument Against
(300 words or less)

Measure letter:

&

Title of Election:

Jurisdiction:

Election Date: £ M5 ,	3,0\2

E'

___'

Argument in Favor
00 words or less)

Submitted by: (select one)

I I The Governing Body of Alameda County, a school district, or a special district

A governing board member who signs an argument must be authorized to do so by the governing board.

I I Bona Fide Organization

Arguments from a bona fide organization must be signed by one of the principal officers. The individual signing an argument on behalf of a bona
fide organization does not have to be a registered voter in the jurisdiction.

Individual(s) eligible to vote on the measure

individuals) signing an argument must be registered voters eligible to vote on the measure.





Indicate County Board Member or Specific District: (if applicable)
Name of Organization/Association: (if applicable)

Contact Person's pWited Name:

Title:

Phone #:

Permission to Post Contact Information on Internet

Permission to the Alameda County Registrar of Voters to post the below listed information on the Alameda County Registrar of Voters
internet site.

INFORMATION TO BE POSTED:

Name:(Print)

______Dowj J\t

Phone #:

—		Address: ]
a	11 ^ fWciMAe., p\cd/^c>/\V

E-MaillAd dress:

1



oMJlitei * I	\6®Be^_Co_fO

Fax tty

Website Address:

WWW.

Date:

pedfAon'h k|^~. te\.

idM ^

Revised: 02-23-2011

Official Argument in Favor of Measure A
Piedmont Unified School District
Election Day: March 5,2013

Piedmont schools are among the best in California. Exceptional teachers, challenging
programs and support from parents and the community all contribute to high student
achievement.

Since 1985, Piedmont schools have benefited from stable local funding provided by our
school parcel tax. The parcel tax automatically expires periodically. Piedmont voters
reauthorized it in 1989, 1993, 1997, 2001, 2005, and 2009. Now the parcel tax is again
set to expire.

Measure A provides nearly $9.5 million in annual funding for Piedmont schools - 30% of
the school’s budget. This is equivalent to 100 teachers or 60 instructional days. If
Measure A fails, every classroom in Piedmont will be impacted. Teachers will be laid off,
class sizes will increase, and many instructional programs will be eliminated.

As required by court decision Measure A sets a flat tax amount per parcel. In the past
voters approved a yearly increase up to 5%. This measure caps the potential yearly
increase to no more than 2%.

Every penny from Measure A will stay in Piedmont to benefit our schools and cannot be
taken away by the State.

Measure A does not expand the educational program, but continues stable local funding
for comprehensive programs in language arts, math, science and the arts.

Measure A is essential to continue to attract, train and retain the best teachers.

Measure A will keep class sizes smaller, preserve AP courses that help students qualify
for excellent colleges, protect counseling services and maintain outstanding academic
programs.

Good schools help protect Piedmont property values. Whether you have children in the
schools or not, Measure A is a sound investment in our community and its children.

Please help us preserve quality schools in Piedmont. Please vote YES.

Richard Raushenbush, President of Piedmont Board of Education

Nancy McHugh, President, Piedmont Educational Foundation

Dane Copeland, President, Associated Parent Clubs of Piedmont (APCP)

Jon Elliott, First Chair of School Parcel Tax Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC)

Sue Kawaichi, Former Member and President of Piedmont Board of Education

BALLOT MEASURE ARGUMENT
SUBMISSION FORM

Official Use Only; Date Stamp

Submission of: (select one)

A

Argument Against
(300 words or less)

1 Measure letter: .1	
Title of Election^0 'S .£) -^)j	1
Jurisdiction: 0 •> S / !	
J \ j ^  Election Date: \\ QiAf» L—	\
	 1	

□ Argument in Favor
(300 words or less)

Submitted by: (select one)

I I The Governing Body of Alameda County, a school district, or a special district

A governing board member who signs an argument must be authorized to do so by the governing board.

I | Bona Fide Organization

Arguments from a bona fide organization must be signed by one of the principal officers. The individual signing an argument on behalf of a bona
fide organization does not have to be a registered voter in the jurisdiction.

Individualfs) eligible to vote on the measure

\ Individualfs) signing an argument must be registered voters eligible to vote on the measure.

a.

Indicate County Board Member or Specific District: (if applicable)
Name of Organizatiop/Associatiorc (if applicable)

Contact Person's PrintedJ

ic\«c Soiullar



Fax#:

J

Permission to Post Contact Information on Internet	
□ Grant ^^Denv  Permission to the Alameda County Registrar of Voters to post the below listed information on the Alameda County Registrar of Voters internet site.  INFORMATION TO BE POSTED:	
Name:(Pnnt)	Address:
Phone #:	Fax #:
E-Mail Address:	Website Address:
Signature:	Date:

Revised; 02-23-2011

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

We Piedmonters are happy to pay more for schools, and our excellent schools are the
proud result. However, no other community's school tax approaches Measure A’s $2406 per
parcel cost. Given the high cost, an equitable and progressive tax is needed. This can be done and
provide the $9,500,000 asked for.

With 2% escalators, homeowners are being asked for $20,651 over 8 years. This financial
burden falls heavily on the smaller property owners. At the extreme, a small lot owner will pay
80 times more per square foot than what the largest lot owner pays. Small lots include many
fixed income seniors who most need relief from this highest in the state school tax. The fixed
parcel tax is regressive, a progressive tax is needed.

Since good schools enhance property values, the most equitable solution is a tax
according to dwelling area which is currently allowed for Community Colleges under
Government Code 50079.1. Piedmont Unified School District should work with other districts
affected by the Borikas v. Alameda Unified School District Appeals Court decision to make the
minor legislative changes needed for a per square foot dwelling tax.

A senior exemption is included in all other top-ranked California school districts with a
school support tax. In our region, most school districts include a senior exemption. Piedmont
does not have a senior exemption and this must be included. The proposed SSI exemption for
low-income seniors is meaningless in Piedmont.

A truly independent citizen oversight committee must be included in the proposed tax;
currently, there is none. Piedmont schools are an integral part of our fine community; let's keep it
that way, but fairly.

VOTE NO on MEASURE A. Instead, let us vote on a tax in November that is equitable,
has genuine citizen oversight and a meaningful senior exemption.

Argument In Favor of Measure A
Sgners

1.	R chard Raushenbush

Resident of Redmont Board of Education

2.	Nancy McHugh

Resident, Redmont Educational Eoundation

3.	Dane Copeland

Resident, Associated Parent Qubsof Redmont (APCP)

4.	Jon Bliot

Erst Chair of Sfchool Parcel Tax Citizens Advisory Committee (CAQ

5.	SUe Kawaichi

Eormer Member and Resident of Redmont Board of Education

Argument Against Measure A
Sgners

1.	James P. McCrea
Redmont Homeowner

2.	Gregory JUrin
Redmont Resident

3.	George D. Childs, JT.

Concerned Gtizen

4.	Aaron Sailoway
Redmont Homeowner

5.	Bruce Joffe

Concerned Gtizen

Rebuttal to the Argument against Measure A
Piedmont Unified School District

Election Day: March 5, 2013

Make no mistake, if Measure A fails and our existing school parcel tax expires, one of
every three dollars that currently support our schools will be gone. A no vote means:

ED Dozens of teachers will be laid off
[HI Class sizes will increase

m Specialized instruction in math, science, reading and writing will be reduced
QD Many honors and advanced placement courses that allow students to attend good
colleges will be eliminated
m School counselors and librarians will be cut

Cuts of this magnitude will devastate Piedmont schools.

A recent Appeals Court decision requires Piedmont to modify our existing parcel tax that
has been in place for 27 years. The court decision requires that the school district modify
the existing tax so all Piedmont property owners pay the same rate, fair and simple.

For almost three decades Piedmont residents have invested in improving our school
district. Today it is ranked among the best in the state. People move to Piedmont for the
schools and home values are a direct result of our quality schools.

The district has already made significant budget reductions. Measure A maintains the
current minimum funding necessary to provide the excellent education Piedmonters
expect.

Finally, the opponents simply have their facts wrong. Low-income seniors are exempt
from Measure A. An independent oversight committee is required. There is no legislation
pending or anticipated that will allow a different structure.

Whether you have children in the schools or not Measure A is a sound investment in our
community.

Please vote Yes.
Tamra C. Hege
Ann Trutner
Bill Drum
Sue Smegal
Wesley J. Smith

40-year Resident, Former Member Piedmont Board of Education
57-year Resident, Former Member Piedmont Board of Education
40-year Resident

Former Member Piedmont Board of Education

Piedmont resident since 1978

Rebuttal To Argument In Favor

We support Piedmont's good schools. We want them to continue and thrive, and we are
willing to pay for them with substantial taxes. But, the size of the tax requires that it be
raised fairly and spent wisely. Measure A eliminates the independent oversight
committee, and instead, proposes a subcommittee appointed by the very School Board
that would be overseen. That's not right.

Measure B, the current school tax, continues into 2014. There is time to get the
subsequent tax measure right. Why is the School Board pushing so hard to rush through
a poorly designed tax proposal?

Tax fairness is another problem. Piedmonters know that our good schools raise property
values. Larger properties increase in value by a larger amount than smaller properties, so
they should pay more tax. Measure A's flat rate results in smaller parcels paying up to 80
times more per square foot than larger parcels. The tax should be levied on a per-square-
foot parcel and/or dwelling basis. That would be fair and uniform.

The top school districts comparable to Piedmont offer a senior exemption. Measure A
doesn't. This would create an untenable burden for senior Piedmonters with limited
incomes.

With more time, a fair tax with strong oversight and a senior exemption can be crafted to
fund Piedmont's good schools. Measure B doesn't expire until 2014. Vote NO now, so
we can vote YES when a better tax measure is proposed.

Rebuttal to the Argument Against Measure A

Sgners

1.	Tamra C Hege

40-year Resident, Former Member Redmont Board of Education

2.	AnnTrutner

57-year Resident, Former Member Redmont Board of Education

3.	Bill Drum
40-year Ftesident

4.	SUe Shnegal

Former Member Redmont Board of Education

5.	Wesley J. Shnith

Redmont resident since 1978

Rebuttal to the Argument in Favor of Measure A

Sgners

1.	James RMcCrea
Redmont Homeowner

2.	Gregory JUrin
Redmont Resident

3.	George D. ChildsJf.
Concerned Gtizen

4.	Aaron Sblloway
Redmont Homeowner

5.	Bruce Joffe
Concerned Ctizen

EXHIBIT A

FULL TEXT OF SPECIAL TAX MEASURE
For

PIEDMONT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

PIEDMONT SCHOOL SUPPORT TAX

This Measure may be known and referred to as the “School Support Tax”, or as
Measure “A”.

To prevent local school funding from expiring and to maintain the quality of Piedmont's
schools, to attract, train and retain qualified teachers, to protect programs in math,
science and technology, to continue funding for music, visual and performing arts
programs, and to keep textbooks and instructional technology up-to-date, shall the
Piedmont Unified School District continue to levy a special tax as specified in the voter
pamphlet, with all funds staying in Piedmont to benefit our schools?

PURPOSE

For over a generation, the residents of the District have approved parcel taxes to
support District programs for the students in Piedmont schools. Parcel taxes have
allowed the District to establish and maintain a full range of educational offerings for
students, including visual arts, performing arts and music, as well as comprehensive
programs in math, science and technology. The depth and range of these programs
have supported student achievement and preparation for success after graduation.
Student achievement scores rank among the best in the State and students are
admitted to, and successful at, excellent colleges and universities. Parcel taxes have
proven crucial to the District’s financial health, currently providing over a third of total
District revenues.

The purpose of this Measure “A” is to continue the tradition of support in a measure with
an eight (8) year term, which will provide the District and its taxpayers both stability and
predictability in base parcel tax support. The proposed parcel tax is called “The School
Support Tax.” It will replace the local funding approved by the voters of the District on
June 2, 2009, as Measure “B”, which will otherwise expire as of July 1, 2014. This
Measure “A” will replace the variable tax rate found in Measure “B”, with a flat tax in
order to comply with recent developments in case law.

This Measure will prevent existing school funding from expiring by continuing to provide
local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and will maintain Piedmont’s excellent
quality of public education by attracting, training and retaining qualified teachers,
maintaining small class sizes, and protecting instructional programs and services,

7

including art and music, world language, advanced placement, school libraries,
classroom technology and student counseling.

The Board of Education will fund all of the programs and purposes listed above unless it
determines in any given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or
other changes in State or Federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. In
any event, the Board of Education will not fund any program, purpose, or reduction,
other than those listed above, from the proceeds of the special taxes.

The School Support Tax would be in effect, beginning July 1, 2013, at the rate shown
below on each assessor’s parcel located wholly or partially within the boundaries of the
Piedmont Unified School District, and end on June 30, 2021.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROCEDURES

(a)	Annual Tax Hearing: The Board of Education will administer this continuing tax
with the financial rectitude and community participation it has demonstrated in the past.
Each year, as part of the annual budget adoption process, the Board will first determine
the total amount of expenditures necessary to provide a superior educational program,
including the specialized services and programs detailed above, and deduct therefrom the
projected revenue to be gathered from sources other than this special tax.

(b)	Determination of Lew: The difference, if any, between the cost of the programs
and funding from other sources shall be the maximum amount of funds to be derived from
the tax authorized by this Measure for such year. If the necessary funds are such that the
maximum rates set forth below are not needed, then the Board of Education shall reduce
these rates proportionately so that only the necessary amount of funds are raised.

(c)	Notice of Tax Hearing: Prior to the levying of the special tax in any given year,
the Board of Education will conduct a public hearing on the matter. Notice of the time,
date, and place of hearing shall be published pursuant to Government Code section 6061
at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the District and at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing. Following the public hearing each year, the Board of Education
shall adopt a resolution establishing the amount of tax to be raised for that year and the
rate per parcel, which shall not exceed the amounts enumerated below. Any tax levied
shall become a lien upon the properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible
as herein provided.

(d)	Statutory Requirements: In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures,
among others, shall apply to the special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure: (a)
the specific purposes of the special tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the
proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified
above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the
special taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the
Board of Education of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended
from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the status of any projects or programs

8

required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as identified
above, and (iii) recommendation to the Board of Education as to the levy amount for the
subsequent year’s tax.

(e)	School Support Tax Advisory Subcommittee: An annual written report shall be
prepared and submitted to the Board of Education by the School Support Tax Advisory
Subcommittee (“Subcommittee”) of the Budget Advisory Committee (“BAC”). All residents
of the Piedmont Unified School District are eligible to apply for membership on the BAC on
an annual basis. Members of the Subcommittee must be homeowners in the Piedmont
Unified School District community and subject to the School Support Tax and not current
employees of PUSD. Each year there shall be no fewer than three (3) and no more than
five (5) volunteers identified by November of each year to serve on the Subcommittee. It is
the responsibility of the District Superintendent or designee to verify eligibility of the
volunteers. The President and Vice President of the Board of Education shall approve all
nominees to the Subcommittee. The Subcommittee shall work directly with the Chief
Business Officer of the District to review School Support Tax uses and report to the Board
of Education at the first public hearing held each year to determine the subsequent year’s
levy. Members of the Subcommittee commit to regularly attend meetings of the BAC. The
Board will adopt the specific charge of the School Support Tax Advisory Subcommittee no
later than May 5, 2013, after two public hearings at Regular School Board meetings. Any
change to the charge of the Subcommittee will require public hearings at Regular Board
meetings and must be approved by the Board.

ADMINISTRATION OF TAX

(a)	Manner of Tax: Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the qualified
special tax shall become effective as of July 1, 2013, and be collected by the Alameda
County Tax Collector at the same time, in the same manner, and subject to the same
penalties as general ad valorem property taxes collected by said tax collector. The tax
and penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property taxes until paid.

(b)	Tax Issues: With respect to all general property tax matters within its
jurisdiction, the Alameda County Tax Assessor or other appropriate County tax official
shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that
decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the
special tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. The procedures
described herein, and any additional procedures established by the Board of Education,
shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund,
reduction, or re-computation of the special tax. The District, in coordination with the
County, shall determine whether it will be the District or the County who shall determine
the issue.

(c) Supplemental Regulations: The Board of Education may adopt such
additional or supplemental procedures as it deems necessary or convenient for the
administration of the special tax.

9

(d)	Parcel Tax Exemptions: Homeowners who are residing on their property and
qualify for Supplemental Security Income (SSI) may be exempt. This could apply to
adults who are blind or otherwise disabled, with limited income and resources, as well
as to people 65 years of age and older without disabilities who meet the income limits
prescribed by SSI. Individuals seeking such exemption must submit an application to
the District, including proof that the individual has been determined to be eligible for SSI
by the Social Security Administration, on or before July 1 of each tax year. The District
shall provide a list to the Tax Collector on an annual basis, on or before a date
established by the Tax Collector of each year, of the parcels which the District has
approved for the SSI Exemption, as described herein.

RATES

The special tax shall be assessed at the rate of $2,406, per parcel.

For parcels divided by Tax Code Area lines, the payment for the portion of the parcel
within the Piedmont Unified School District shall be the same as the above.

ADJUSTMENT OF RATE

The Board will determine, on an annual basis, the amount of the levy for the following
fiscal year, up to the maximum allowable rate shown above. The Board may also
increase the maximum allowable amount by up to 2% from the previous year. If, in any
given year, the Board elects to levy an amount less than the maximum allowable rate, it
may, in subsequent years, levy the maximum allowable rate.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of
the District’s adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because
of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special taxes will be reduced
annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.

10

EXHIBIT B

SPECIAL TAX MEASURE
For

PIEDMONT CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
(Abbreviated Form) *

“To prevent local school funding from expiring and to
maintain the quality of Piedmont’s schools, to attract, train
and retain qualified teachers, to protect programs in math,
science and technology, to continue funding for music, visual
and performing arts programs, and to keep textbooks and
instructional technology up-to-date, shall the Piedmont
Unified School District continue to levy a special tax as
specified in the voter pamphlet, with all funds staying in
Piedmont to benefit our schools?

Tax - Yes

Tax - No

* Limited to 75 words pursuant to California Elections Code section 13247.

11

EXHIBIT C

FORMAL NOTICE OF SCHOOL PARCEL TAX ELECTION

(Revised)

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Piedmont Unified
School District of Alameda County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of
the Education Code of the State of California, an election will be held on March 5, 2013,
at which election the following measure shall be submitted to the qualified electors of
the District and voted upon:

“To prevent local school funding from expiring and to
maintain the quality of Piedmont’s schools, to attract, train
and retain qualified teachers, to protect programs in math,
science and technology, to continue funding for music, visual
and performing arts programs, and to keep textbooks and
instructional technology up-to-date, shall the Piedmont
Unified School District continue to levy a special tax, as
specified in the voter pamphlet, with all funds staying in
Piedmont to benefit our schools? "

Tax-Yes	Tax-No

All of the purposes enumerated in the foregoing measure shall be united and
voted upon as one single measure, with precincts, places of holding the elections and
officers appointed to conduct the elections shall be the same as those provided in the
local consolidated election, under the notice of election adopted November 28, 2012
and revised on December 11, 2012.

The County Superintendent of Schools of Alameda County, by this Notice of
Election, has called the election pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Education of
the Piedmont Unified School District, adopted November 28, 2012, in accordance with
the provisions of Education Code Sections 5325 and 5361, and revised thereafter on
December 11, 2012.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 12th day of
December, 2012.

County Superintendent of Schools,
Alameda County, California