Measure B

Transient Occupancy Tax
City of Sunnyvale

Municipal Code Amendment - Majority Approval Required

Shall the Sunnyvale Municipal Code be amended to increase the transient
occupancy tax rate (commonly called "hotel tax") charged to persons who occupy
hotel or motel rooms in the City for 30 days or less from 9.5% to 10.5% in order to
help maintain the City's ability to fund basic services such as public safety and
streets, trees, and sidewalk maintenance, and to keep parity with neighboring
cities' hotel tax rates, effective January 1,2014?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to amend the Sunnyvale Municipal Code to increase the
City's TOT rate from 9.5% to 10.5%, effective January 1,2014.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote to retain the current TOT rate of 9.5%.

Impartial Analysis

This proposed ballot measure would amend Chapter 3.16 of the Sunnyvale
Municipal Code to increase the City's transient occupancy tax ("TOT") rate
from 9.5% to 10.5%. The TOT, otherwise known as the "hotel tax", is imposed
for general governmental purposes and is therefore considered a "general
tax". Under state law, any increase in a general tax requires a simple majority
vote of the electorate (50% plus one) at a general municipal election of the
City.

The City's TOT was first adopted by ordinance in 1965 and became operative in 1968.
The last time the City's voters approved a TOT rate increase was in 2005, which
gradually phased-in the tax increase over a four-year period to the current rate of 9.5%.
Sunnyvale currently has thirty-four (34) hotels operating within the City that pay the
tax. As defined in the ordinance, "hotels" includes all types of transient lodging
establishments. The tax is assessed by the operator on behalf of the City to guests who
occupy hotels for thirty (30) days or less. The tax is collected by the hotels and remitted
to the City. It is based on the room rate charged by the hotel. For example, if the base
room rate is $100, the total amount charged to the guest under the new rate would be
$110.50, with $10.50 remitted to the City as tax.

TOT rates vary around the County of Santa Clara from a low of 9% to a high of 12%. If
additional special hotel tax districts are included, such as the San Jose Convention
Center Facility District, the range is from 9% to 14%.

Sunnyvale's Department of Finance estimates that a 1% increase in TOT from 9.5% to
10.5% would result in approximately $900,000 in additional annual revenue or
approximately $23 million over a twenty (20) year period based on current inflation-
adjusted long-term revenue projections. Revenues from the tax are placed in the City's

General Fund to support infrastructure and City services including police and fire,
public works, street and sidewalk maintenance, parks and recreation, library services,
and economic development efforts.

A "YES" vote is a vote to amend the Sunnyvale Municipal Code to increase the City's TOT
rate from 9.5% to 10.5%, effective January 1, 2014.

A "NO" vote is a vote to retain the current TOT rate of 9.5%.

s/Joan A. Borger
City Attorney

Arguments For Measure B

Measure B provides funds for important city services at no cost to
Sunnyvale residents.

Sunnyvale's Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT], commonly called the "hotel
tax," is paid by visitors who stay in Sunnyvale hotels. Sunnyvale's current
9.5% rate is below the county-wide average.

Sunnyvale entered the Great Recession with both expense and revenue
problems to solve. We now emerge from the Great Recession with new
labor agreements with every employee union. Sunnyvale negotiated for
two-tier retirement, two years without raises, and employees paying a
greater share of their pension costs.

We've worked hard to control costs and balance the budget. Sunnyvale
has been a good steward of your tax dollars.

Now we must look at revenue. And Sunnyvale's revenue has been under
attack, reduced by repeated State raids, by the State's default on
Sunnyvale's RDA loan repayments, and by increased online sales. We
must find other revenue sources to maintain the service levels our
residents demand, and our low TOT is one obvious answer.

This mere 1% increase in the TOT will generate $900,000 each year for
city services. Measure B lets Sunnyvale benefit from hotel visitors to
Superbowl 50 and other events at Santa Clara's new stadium, just in time
for next year's opening. Further, Sunnyvale's Chamber of Commerce
believes keeping the TOT at or under 10.5% still keeps our hotels
competitive.

This will provide services that our residents need and want. Sunnyvale
can use this revenue to hire more public safety officers, to improve parks,
and to repair our roads.

Best of all, the State cannot take this revenue from us.

This is a very small change that makes a very big difference to the city
services that we need and want.

We respectfully urge you to vote YES on Measure B.

s/ Anthony Spitaleri
Mayor, City of Sunnyvale

s/ James R. "Jim" Griffith
Vice Mayor, City of Sunnyvale

s/ Tara Martin-Milius
Councilmember, City of Sunnyvale

s/ Melinda Hamilton

Former Mayor, City of Sunnyvale

Rebuttal to Arguments For

This hotel tax increase is on the ballot only because the council declined
to place a Utility Users Tax measure on the ballot two years ago, when the
city manager asked us to do so:

http://sunnyvale.ca.gov/Portals/O/Sunnwale/CouncilReports /2011 /II -
OSS.pdf

Fixing the UUT would make our revenue sustainable for the indefinite
future. But adding 1% to the hotel tax will not. Another tax measure will
have to be placed on the ballot in a few years. Rather than implementing
a stopgap measure, we should deal with the issue in a permanent way.

The City Manager's 2013 Budget Letter says, "Over the next year, we
should discuss the Utility Users Tax (UUT] which makes up 5% of our
total General Fund revenue...Because we have full control over this
revenue source, it is vitally important that we analyze our rate compared
to our neighboring jurisdictions and ensure we are collecting an
appropriate amount..."

Many of the hotel rooms booked in Sunnyvale are paid for by local
companies, who are bringing their remote employees in for meetings.

Ten 49ers games per year will not be the primary source of extra hotel
tax revenue. Well-managed businesses control travel costs tightly, and if
this Measure passes, local employers will have an incentive to steer their
business away from Sunnyvale hotels.

Whether this Measure passes or not, we will have to pass a UUT measure
to make City revenues sustainable. Why not just do that, and solve the
revenue problem for good?

s/ Christopher R. Moylan
Councilmember, City of Sunnyvale

Arguments Against Measure B

Since the economic crash of 2008, the City of Sunnyvale has balanced its
budget completely by reducing expenditures, with no new revenue at all. It is
indeed necessary to increase revenues now to maintain city services. That can
be done only by asking the voters to approve an increase. When selecting
which revenue source to increase, the city's fiscal policy specifies the criteria
that should be used. Unfortunately, an increase in the hotel tax conflicts with
two of those policies.

The proposed increase from 9.5% to 10.5% takes us out of compliance with our policy
of "competitiveness with surrounding communities." The county average is 10.4%, and
the proposed increase puts us slightly higher than that, as well as being higher than
neighboring cities Mountain View (10%) and Santa Clara (9.5%).

The proposed increase also conflicts with the criterion of "equity/fairness in
distribution of the revenue burden on various segments of the community." The hotel
tax is charged to a small sector of our business community, with the goal of having
nonresidents pay for our city services.

Fortunately, there is a revenue stream that is way overdue for updating, as pointed out
by the last several city managers in their budget transmittal letters each year: the utility
user's tax, which has not been changed since 1976 and which is currently half the
county average. Updating the UUT would bring in ten times as much revenue as this
proposed measure, spread evenly across all of us so that the individual cost would be
very small.

Hotel taxes are proposed under the assumption that voters want to make other people
pay for their city services. Let's show that we are better than that. Let's leave the hotel
tax where it is, and ask the councilto update the utility user's tax.

s/ Christopher R. Moylan
Councilmember, City of Sunnwale

Rebuttal to Arguments Against

When proposing this ballot measure, the City Council listened to the Sunnyvale
Chamber of Commerce, which stated that a 1% hotel tax increase still keeps Sunnyvale's
hotels competitive with surrounding cities.

Clearly Sunnyvale's "competitive rate" policy is being met.

According to both City staff and the Chamber of Commerce, the effective hotel tax rates
are higher than quoted by the opponent. The effective tax rates are 10.5 to 11.5% in
Santa Clara, 12% in Cupertino, 12% in Palo Alto, 12% in Campbell, and 14% in San Jose.
San Jose and Santa Clara have additional taxes and special districts that increase their
actual hotel tax rates beyond their base TOT rates. With these extras, the county's
average hotel tax rate is actually between 11.9% and 12.25%.

A mere 1% increase in the hotel tax to a rate of 10.5% keeps Sunnyvale's TOT rate not
just competitive, but still one of the lowest hotel tax rates in the county.

Most important, this revenue will provide public safety officers, services, and
maintenance that city residents need and want.

This measure is based on one simple and obvious point - the new Santa Clara stadium
will have some negative impacts on Sunnyvale's traffic, streets, and public safety, and
stadium visitors should be responsible for those impacts. Obviously, the stadium's
completion makes Measure B a priority right now, and Measure B still preserves the
competitiveness of Sunnyvale's hotels.

Fair is fair. We urge you to pass Measure B.

s/ Anthony Spitaleri
Mayor, City of Sunnyvale

s/ James R. "Jim" Griffith
Vice Mayor, City of Sunnyvale

s/ Tara Martin-Milius
Councilmember, City of Sunnyvale

s/ Melinda Hamilton

Former Mayor, City of Sunnyvale

Full Text of Measure B

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE
SUNNYVALE MUNICIPAL CODE

The City Council of the City of Sunnyvale, on its own motion, submits to the Electors the
following amendment to the Sunnyvale Municipal Code. The City Council has called a

consolidated general election for the purpose of voting on the amendment to be held
on November 5, 2013.

The proposed amendment to the Municipal Code follows the statement of the measure.
The provisions of the Municipal Code proposed to be deleted are printed as strike
out type, and the new provisions are printed as underlined type.

CITY OF SUNNYVALE MEASURE B

Shall the Sunnyvale Municipal Code be amended to increase the transient occupancy
tax rate (commonly called "hotel tax") charged to persons who occupy hotel or motel
rooms in the City for 30 days or less from 9.5% to 10.5% in order to help maintain the
City's ability to fund basic services such as public safety and streets, trees, and
sidewalk maintenance, and to keep parity with neighboring cities' hotel tax rates,
effective January 1, 2014?

YES___

NO____

If Measure B carries, the Sunnyvale Municipal Code shall be amended by amending
Section 3.16.040 to read as follows:

Section 3.16.040 Imposition--Rate-Payment.

(a)	For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay
a tax in the amount of eight percent of the rent charged by the operator through June
30,1995, and eight and one-half percent of the rent charged by the operator on or after
July 1,1995.

(b)	Commencing January 1, 2007, and continuing through December 31,2008, the
amount of the tax shall be nine percent of the rent charged by the operator. Effective
January 1, 2009, the amount of the tax shall be nine and one-half percent of the rent
charged by the operator, provided, however, that the average citywide hotel/motel
occupancy rate from January 1 through September 30, 2008, as determined by the
director of finance, is at least sixty percent. If the average occupancy rate during this
period is less than sixty percent, the increase in the amount of the tax shall be deferred
until January 1, 2010. In any event, the amount of the tax on and after January 1, 2010,
shall be nine and one-half percent of the rent charged by operator.

(c)	Commencing lanuarv 1. 2014. and continuing thereafter, the amount of the tax shall
he ten and one-half percent of the rent charged by the operator.

(de) Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city which is extinguished
only by payment to the operator or to the city. The transient, or any person paying rent
on the transient's behalf, shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the
rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be
paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to
occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the

hotel, the tax administrator may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the tax
administrator.