	
	Measure M: "Shall an ordinance be adopted to authorize, for a period of ten years, the levy of a 1% utility users' tax on electricity, gas, telecommunications, video and water utility services, with exemptions for residential services provided to persons with disabilities and low income households?"[2]

Impartial Analysis from Nicholas George
Rodriguez, City Attorney

Measure M would establish a utility users' tax on
electricity, gas, telecommunications, video and water
utility services in the City of Vernon for a period often
years to raise revenue for general City purposes.
Measure M provides an exemption for low income and
disabled residents, and would cap the utility users' tax
liability to an aggregate, maximum annual amount of
$250,000, for any one user for gas, electricity and
water services.

Measure M proposes an ordinance establishing the
utility users' tax as a tax upon the user of the utility
service. If approved, the tax would generally be
collected along with utility service charges by the
provider of the utility service. The tax would be
calculated as 1% of the charge for utility service. For
example, if an electric ratepayer incurs $1,000 of
electric charges, a $10 tax will be added to that
ratepayer's utility bill. Utility service providers are
generally required by the ordinance to bill users for the
tax and are required to remit collected taxes to the City
on a monthly basis.

The tax applies to services provided to locations in the
City of Vernon. For mobile telecommunications
services (and other telecommunication services that
are not associated with a fi xed location), it generally
applies to services with a "place of primary use" in the
City. The "place of primary use" is the street address
representative of where a person's use of such service
primarily occurs, which must be either the residential
street address or the primary business street address
of such person. Telecommunications services subject
to the proposed tax generally include services that
transmit, convey or route voice, data, audio, video or
any other information or signals to a point, or between
or among points, whatever the technology used.

The tax would not apply to residential services
provided to service users meeting criteria for disability
or low income set forth in the ordinance, so long as

This election is archived.
Any links to sources
outside of Smart Voter
may no longer be active.
No further links will be
added to this page.

Links to sources outside of
Smart Voter are provided for
information only and do not
imply endorsement.

such users establish their exempt status with the City.
Proceeds of the utility users' tax would be placed in the
City's general fund and available for any municipal
purpose. City staff estimates the utility users' tax will
raise $1.6 million annually.

The tax would be effective upon certification of voter
approval of Measure M by the City Council and would
automatically end ten years after such certifi cation.

Arguments For Measure M

Measure M places a one percent (1%) tax on utility bills.

Measure M is expected to generate $1.6 million in new revenue each year for the next
ten years.

Virtually all of the $1.6 million will be paid by businesses located in Vernon because
they consume the bulk of the utilities sold in our City. Only a tiny, tiny portion will be paid
by the residents.

For example, if your monthly utility bills total $50, the tax you pay will be only 50 cents. If
they total $100 per month, your tax will only be $1.

We need to pass Measure M to avoid damaging reductions in core government
services, and we have worked hard to keep this tax as low as possible.

We hope you will agree that 50 cents or $1 per month is a very small price to pay in
order to keep our city functioning 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

Again, while businesses will pay more than 99% this small tax, State law requires that
the residents ratify the ordinance.

That is why the fi ve of us are asking that each resident please VOTE YES ON
MEASURE M.

We will be conducting workshops before the election where we, and City Staff, will be
available to answer any questions you might have. You will receive a notice in the mail
as to when and where these workshops will take place.

The future of the City of Vernon depends upon the passage of Measures K, L & M.

We are counting on you to do your part and we ask you vote YES ON MEASURES K, L
& M.

Thank you very much.

s/William J. Davis, Mayor, City of Vernon

s/ Richard J. Maisano, Council Member

s/ Michael Ybarra, Council Member

s/W. Michael McCormick, Mayor Pro-Tern

s/ Luz Martinez, Council Member

(No arguments against Measure M were submitted)