VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

Containing
MEASURE A
CITY OF HERCULES
TUESDAY, JUNE 4, 2013

Arguments in favor of or against the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors.

If you would like to receive this information in Spanish please call (925)
335-7800. If you have already requested voting information in Spanish,
the information will be mailed to you automatically.

Si desea recibir esta informacion en espahol, por favor Name al (925)
335-7800. Si ya solicito informacion para votar en espahol, esta sera
enviada automaticamente por correo.

HR01

MEASURE A
CITY OF HERCULES

City of Hercules Fiscal Accountability/Services Protection Measure.

To restore Hercules to financial stability, enhance fiscal accountability,
continue to maintain our own local Police Department, and prevent
drastic cuts to neighborhood police officers, youth/senior programs, and
other services, shall Hercules modernize its utility users tax with equal
treatment of taxpayers regardless of technology, increase the rate by 2%
for 5 years, maintain current low-income exemptions, with citizens’
oversight, independent audits, and local control of revenues?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE A

Measure A proposes to amend the existing voter approved Hercules
Utility Users Tax (UUT) ordinance, adopted by City voters in 2004 and
applied to telephone communications services, electricity usage, gas
usage, water usage, and video service usage (but never implemented as
to video service).

A "yes" vote on this measure would approve a temporary five year, 2%
increase in the UUT, and would update the definitions for various utilities
to take into account changes in the law and technology, equalize the
treatment of various telephone services, implement the Federal Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act, and activate the UUT on video
programming services such as cable TV and similar services. The
proposed 2% increase would automatically expire five years from its
effective date, or September 1, 2018, whichever came first. It would
require a vote of the citizens of Hercules to extend the 2% temporary
increase, otherwise the UUT would revert back to the 2004 established
level of 6%. If the measure passes, the existing UUT’s low income
exemption for gas and electricity would remain and would apply to the
gas and electricity portion of the five year, 2% UUT tax increase. In
addition, the amendment would provide for independent oversight of
UUT tax expenditures by a citizen’s committee. This citizen’s oversight
would remain in place after the expiration of the temporary five year, 2%
increase and until the expiration of the original UUT ordinance in 2025.

If this measure passes, additional general fund revenue would be
generated in the approximate amount of $1 million annually, which can
be used to fund public safety and other high priority services, as well as
other general services and programs. The new temporary tax rate would

1

begin to be collected commencing approximately thirty to sixty days
following certification of the election results.

A "no" vote on this measure would leave the existing UUT at its existing
rate until expiration of the current UUT in 2025, and keep outdated utility
definitions in place that could be the subject of future litigation and
threaten the loss of existing UUT revenue. If there is no increase in the
UUT, based on current budget and revenue projections, the City Council
would have to make cuts in coming budgets to City programs, services
or projects, including but not limited to policing and public safety.

Dated: March 8, 2013
Patrick Tang
City Attorney
City of Hercules

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE A. IF YOU DESIRE A COPY OF THE MEASURE OR THE
UTILITY USERS' TAX ORDINANCE, PLEASE CALL THE CITY
CLERK'S OFFICE AT (510) 799-8200, AND A COPY WILL BE MAILED
AT NO COST TO YOU.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE A

Historically, Hercules was a community where we wanted to live/raise
our families. Unfortunately, past corruption drove our City to the brink of
bankruptcy. New City leadership is reforming this -- by eliminating
cronyism, improving transparency, and aggressively pursuing legal
action against those responsible.

We must continue restoring Hercules to financial stability, ensuring fiscal
accountability, and keeping our own local police department. To keep
Hercules a safe, well-maintained place to live where people want to raise
their families, Vote YES on A!

The City has taken drastic measures to balance its budget.
Salaries/benefits have been cut. 40% of the City's workforce has been
laid off in the last two years. All special events have been cancelled.
Many basic services have been cut to the bone-but the City is simply
running out of money to fund the essential services we all rely on. Vote
YES on A - Save Locally-Provided Police Services!

2

■s YES on A protects and Maintains Essential City Services we rely
on

s YES on A maintains our local Hercules Police Department,
without contracting these services from the County

s YES on A continues the effort to Restore Financial Stability and
is Fiscally Accountable

YES on A helps prevent cuts to the number of sworn Hercules Police
Officers on duty and supports the Department's work to maintain key
public safety functions such as crime investigation training, traffic
enforcement, neighborhood patrols, crime prevention and 9-1-1
response times.

YES on A maintains current exemptions for low-income families and
seniors and requires tough fiscal accountability, including Independent
Citizens' Oversight and financial audits to ensure all funds are properly
spent as promised to you, the taxpayer.

Join your neighbors, the Hercules Police Officers Association, and local
taxpayers - Vote YES on A -restore Hercules's financial stability and
maintain our own local Police Department!

Hercules Police Officers Association Cip Ayalin

Earnest Taylor, President	Retiree and 34-Years Hercules

Taxpayer

Kathy Melas	Betty Fong, DDS

Neighborhood Crime Watch Leader Hercules Business Owner

(North Shore Dental)

D Jay Tucker

Community Leader and 34-Years Hercules
Taxpayer

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE A

3

None filed.