City Hall East
200 N. Main Street
Room 800

Los Angeles, CA 90012

CT rutanich@lacity. org

(213)978-8141 Tel
(213)978-8211 Fax

www.lacity.org

CARMEN A. TRUTANICH
City Attorney

REPORT NO. R 1 5- 0 0 3 3

JAN 1 8 2013

REPORT RE:

DRAFT ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS PURSUANT TO
CHARTER SECTION 453 REGARDING ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL ON
CERTIFIED INITIATIVE PETITION REGARDING MEDICAL MARIJUANA

The Honorable City Council
of the City of Los Angeles
Room 395, City Hall
200 North Spring Street
Los Angeles, California 90012

Honorable Members:

The City Clerk has presented to your Honorable Body a certified initiative petition
related to medical marijuana collectives submitted by proponents Paul Scott, Barbara
Andrews, Robert Kerns, Dang Le and James Rephann. In connection with the City
Clerk’s transmittal, this Office has prepared and now transmits the enclosed draft
ordinances and resolutions pursuant to Charter Section 453 regarding action by the City
Council upon presentation of a certified initiative petition proposing an ordinance
amending an existing ordinance previously adopted by a vote of the people.

Background

On December 21, 2012, a group of proponents submitted an initiative petition to
the City Clerk containing voter signatures in support of a proposed ordinance that would
regulate and raise taxes on associations of qualified patients and/or primary caregivers
who cultivate, provide or engage in other activities related to medical marijuana
(MMCs). In general, the proposed initiative would require MMCs to register with the
City and meet other requirements and operational standards. The initiative does not
limit the number of MMCs that can register but provides registration priority to those

The Honorable City Council
of the City of Los Angeles
Page 2

possessing a City tax registration certificate as of October 2012. The initiative contains
exemptions for dwellings zoned residential, as well as other exemptions. The initiative
also would increase the MMC tax to $60.00 per each $1,000.00 of gross receipts.

On December 31, 2012, the City Clerk completed its preliminary review of the
initiative petition and accepted it for processing. The City Clerk thereafter examined the
voter signatures contained on the petition using the random sampling method
authorized in the City Election Code and in accordance with Charter Section 451. The
City Clerk has now completed that examination and has determined that the initiative
petition contains a sufficient number of valid voter signatures to qualify for presentation
to the City Council. The City Clerk certified the petition as sufficient on January 3, 2013,
and presented the certified petition to Council on January 7, 2013.

Council Options

The ordinance proposed in this initiative would, in part, amend an existing
ordinance previously adopted by the vote of the people. In March 2011, the voters of
Los Angeles adopted Proposition M, a tax ordinance imposing an annual tax of $50.00
for each $1,000.00 of the gross receipts earned by a medical marijuana collective. The
ordinance proposed in this initiative would increase that tax rate to $60.00. Charter
Section 453 provides that when presented with a certified initiative petition proposing an
ordinance that would amend an existing ordinance previously adopted by a vote of the
people, the City Council must place the proposed ordinance on the ballot at the next
election occurring in the City at any time after 90 days after the date of the Clerk’s
certification of the petition.

The City Clerk certified this initiative petition as sufficient on January 3, 2013.

The City’s Genera! Municipal Election of May 21, 2013, will occur more than 90 days
after the date of certification. Accordingly, pursuant to Charter Section 453, the
ordinance proposed in this initiative petition must be submitted to the voters at the City’s
General Municipal Election to be held on May 21, 2013.

We have attached an election ordinance and ballot resolutions to place the
measure on the ballot at the City’s General Municipal Election to be held on May 21,
2013. These election documents include a ballot title for the measure.

The Honorable City Council
of the City of Los Angeles
Page 3

If you have any questions regarding this matter, please contact Special Assistant
City Attorney Jane Usher at (213) 978-8100. She or another member of this Office will
be present when you consider this matter to answer any questions you may have.

Very truly yours,

CARMEN A. TRUTANICH, City Attorney

/I „	^

PEDRO B. ECHEVERRIA
Chief Assistant City Attorney

PBE:JEU;pj

Transmittal

M:\Government Counsel\2013 MM Initiative 2\MM2 -- Transmittal Report.doc

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Council of the City of Los Angeles has taken action pursuant to
an initiative petition to place a certain initiative ordinance before the qualified voters of
the City of Los Angeles at a Special Election to be called on May 21, 2013, and
consolidated with the City’s General Municipal Election to be held on the same date;
and

WHEREAS, the City Election Code requires the City Attorney to prepare and
present a ballot title and question consisting of an impartial statement of the measure;
and

WHEREAS, the City Attorney has presented the following ballot title and
question for the proposed measure:

MEDICAL MARIJUANA REGULATION AND TAXATION. REQUIRE
COLLECTIVES TO REGISTER AND MEET OTHER REQUIREMENTS
AND OPERATIONAL STANDARDS. NO LIMITATION ON NUMBER
THAT CAN REGISTER. EXEMPT DWELLINGS ZONED RESIDENTIAL
FROM REGULATION. INCREASE TAXES ON COLLECTIVES.
INITIATIVE ORDINANCE

Shall an ordinance regulating associations of qualified patients and/or
primary caregivers who cultivate, provide or engage in other activities
related to marijuana for medical purposes (MMCs) by: (1) prohibiting
MMCs but providing limited immunity for MMCs that register with the City
(without limiting the number that can register but giving registration priority
to those possessing City tax certificates by October 2012), generally have
not ceased operations for more than 90 days, pass annual background
checks, are separated from residential uses, maintain certain distrances
from schools, parks, child care facilities, other designated places and
other MMCs, and meet other requirements and operational standards; (2)
exempting dwellings zoned residential, and other exemptions; and (3)
increasing the MMC tax to $60 per each $1,000 of gross receipts; be
adopted?

1

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the ballot title and question
presented by the City Attorney be adopted by the City Council.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting held on__________________ .

C.F. No.	JUNE LAGMAY, City Clerk By  Deputy

M:\GovernmentCounsel\2013 MM Initiative 2\MM2 initiative--Ballot Title Reso DRAFT 1.14.13.doc

2

RESOLUTION

Resolution providing that an initiative ordinance be submitted to the qualified
voters of the City of Los Angeles.

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF LOS ANGELES AS FOLLOWS:

Section A. The following initiative ordinance of the City of Los Angeles is hereby
proposed to be submitted for approval by a majority of the qualified voters of the City of
Los Angeles at a Special Election to be called on May 21, 2013, and consolidated with
the City’s General Municipal Election to be held on the same date:

ORDINANCE NO._________________________

Pursuant to, and consistent with California law concerning medical marijuana,
the City of Los Angeles shall enact an ordinance amending in their entirety Article 5.1
of Chapter IV, and Section 21.50, of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, in order to
impose strict regulations on medical marijuana collectives to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of the community, and to provide additional genera! tax revenues to help
fund the regulation of medical marijuana collectives and necessary municipal services,
including, but not limited to, police protection and crime suppression services,
firefighting services, code enforcement, building inspections, and other municipal
services as determined by the City Council.

WHEREAS, the Compassionate Use Act (“CUA"), adopted by California voters
in 1996, and the Medical Marijuana Program Act (“MMPA”), enacted by the State
Legislature in 2003, decriminalized the cultivation and use of marijuana by seriously
ill individuals upon a physician’s recommendation and provided California’s qualified
patients and their primary caregivers with specified immunities under state law,
thereby helping to ensure that qualified patients and their primary caregivers, who
possess and use marijuana for medical purposes, are not subject to criminal
prosecution or sanction;

WHEREAS, commencing in 2007, numerous medical marijuana collectives
opened storefront shops and commercial growing operations in the City without any
consistent land use controls under the Los Angeles Municipal Code (“LAMC,” “Municipal
Code,” or “this Code”) and, since that time, an unknown number of these collectives
continue to operate in Los Angeles, all without consistent and clear regulations from
the City;

WHEREAS, the Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) has reported that,
as the number of marijuana dispensaries and commercial growing operations
proliferated without sufficient legal oversight, the City and its neighborhoods have
experienced negative secondary effects, including an increase in crime at certain
locations associated with unregulated marijuana collectives;

WHEREAS, there presently are no ordinances in the City of Los Angeles
specifically regulating or monitoring the location, zoning standards, or other aspects of
the locations and facilities where medical marijuana will be dispensed to eligible
persons under state law;

WHEREAS, medical marijuana dispensaries continue to operate without
reasonable regulation, thus threatening the interests of local neighborhoods and
businesses, as well as negatively impacting those seriously ill residents of the City who
require access to the palliative effects of medical marijuana;

WHEREAS, by implementing a fair and reasonable registration process for
medical marijuana collectives, which will provide priority to those registrants who have
acted and which continue to act in a responsible and law-abiding manner, the City will
be able to maintain order while avoiding undue burdens on its already strained financial
resources;

WHEREAS, the City has a substantial and clear interest in ensuring that medical
marijuana is distributed in an orderly manner, and in protecting the public health, safety
and welfare of its residents, its businesses, the neighborhoods in which medical
marijuana collectives operate, while ensuring compassionate access by seriously ill
residents to medical marijuana in accordance with the CUA and the MMPA;

WHEREAS, taxing medical marijuana collectives in the City will help to fund
general municipal services, which may include but are not limited to, code enforcement,
building inspections, police protection and crime suppression services, fire prevention
and suppression services, which will facilitate the purposes of this law and which will
fund necessary services as determined by the City Council;

WHEREAS, the regulations in this initiative do not interfere with a qualified
patient's right to use medical marijuana as authorized under California law, nor do they
criminalize the possession or cultivation of medical marijuana by specifically defined
classifications of persons, as authorized under California law.

WHEREAS, medical marijuana collectives shall comply with all provisions of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code ("Code"), California law, and all other applicable local
laws; nothing in this initiative purports to permit activities that are otherwise illegal under
state or local law;

WHEREAS, this initiative is not intended to conflict with federal or state law, nor
is it intended to respond to or invite litigation over any unresolved legal questions posed
by the California Attorney General or by case law regarding the scope and application of
state law; it is intended that this initiative be interpreted to be compatible with federal
and state enactments and in furtherance of the public purposes that those enactments
encompass;

2

NOW, THEREFORE,

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1.

Section 21.50 of Article 1 of Chapter II of the Los Angeles Municipal Code is
amended in its entirety to read:

Sec. 21.50. TAXATION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA COLLECTIVES.

(a)	No registration certificate or permit issued under the provisions of
Article 1 or Article 1.5 of Chapter 2 of this Code, or the payment of any tax
required under the provisions of Article 1 or Article 1.5 of Chapter 2 of this Code
shall be construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal
business or of a legal business in an illegal manner. Nothing in this section
implies or authorizes that any activity connected with the distribution or
possession of cannabis is legal unless otherwise authorized and allowed by
California and federal law. Nothing in this Section shall be applied or construed
as authorizing the sale of marijuana.

(b)	Every person engaged in operating or otherwise conducting a
medical marijuana collective not otherwise specifically taxed by other business
tax provisions of this Chapter, shall pay a business tax of $60.00 for each
$1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional part thereof.

(c)	For purposes of this section, a "medical marijuana collective"
means any activity regulated or permitted by Article 5.1 of this Code or Health
and Safety Code sections 11362.5, etseq., that involves transporting,
dispensing, delivering, providing or manufacturing, compounding, converting,
processing, preparing, storing, packaging, or testing harvesting, transporting,
dispensing, delivering, providing, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
processing, preparing, storing, packaging, or testing any part of the marijuana
plant for medical purposes.

(d)	For purposes of this section, "gross receipts" includes all amounts
that would be considered gross receipts under section 21.00, including without
limitation:

(i)	Membership dues;

(ii)	The value of in-kind contributions;

(iii)	Reimbursements provided by members, regardless of form;
and

(iv)	Anything else of value obtained by a medical marijuana
collective.

3

(e)	All taxpayers subject to this section must pay the full tax imposed by
this section regardless of any rebate, exemption, incentive, or other reduction set
forth elsewhere in the Municipal Code, except as required by California or
Federal Law. No provision in the Municipal Code can lower the tax rate set forth
in this section or otherwise reduce the amount of taxes paid hereunder unless
the provision specifically states that the reduction applies.

(f)	The City Council may impose the tax authorized by this section at a
lower rate and may establish exemptions, incentives, or other reductions as
otherwise allowed by the Charter and California law. No action by the Council
under this paragraph shall prevent it from later increasing the tax or removing
any exemption, incentive, or reduction and restoring the maximum tax specified
in this section.

SECTION 2.

Article 5.1 of Chapter IV of the Los Angeles Municipal Code is amended in its
entirety to read:

ARTICLE 5.1

MEDICAL MARIJUANA

SEC. 45.19.6. PURPOSES AND INTENT.

It is the purpose and intent of this article to regulate medical marijuana
collectives in order to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
City of Los Angeles. The regulations in this article, in compliance with the
Compassionate Use Act, the Medical Marijuana Program Act, and the California
Health and Safety Code do not interfere with a qualified patient's right to use
medical marijuana as authorized under California law, nor do they criminalize the
possession or cultivation of medical marijuana by specifically defined
classifications of persons, as authorized under California law.

Medical marijuana collectives shall comply with all provisions of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code ("Code"), California law, and all other applicable laws.
Nothing in this article purports to permit activities that are otherwise illegal under
federal, state or local law. This article is not intended to conflict with federal or
state law, nor is this article intended to respond to or invite litigation over any
unresolved legal questions posed by the California Attorney General or by case
law regarding the scope and application of state law. It is intended that this
article be interpreted to be compatible with federal and state enactments and in
furtherance of the public purposes that those enactments encompass.

4

SEC. 45.19.6.1. DEFINITIONS.

A.	The following phrases words, when used in this section, shall be
construed as defined below. Words and phrases not defined here shall be
construed as defined in Sections 11.01, 12.03, 45.19.5, 45.21 for “youth center”
only, and 56.45 of this Code.

“Building” means any structure having a roof supported by columns or
walls, for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or
property of any kind.

“Live Scan” means a system for inkless electronic fingerprinting and the
automated background check developed by the California Department of Justice
(“DOJ”) which involves digitizing fingerprints and electronically transmitting the
fingerprint image data along with personal descriptor information to computers at
the DOJ for completion of a criminal record check; or such other comparable
inkless electronic fingerprinting and automated background check process as
determined by the City Council.

“Live Scan application” means a form developed by the City Clerk to
request Live Scan services and to contain information relevant to the Live Scan
process.

“Location” means any parcel of land, whether vacant or occupied by a
building, group of buildings, or accessory buildings, and includes the buildings,
structures, yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot area.

“Manager” means any person with responsibility for the establishment,
organization, registration, supervision, or oversight of a medical marijuana
collective, including but not limited to any person who performs the functions of
president, vice president, board member, director, owner, operating officer,
financial officer, secretary, or treasurer of the medical marijuana collective.

“Marijuana” shall be construed as defined in California Health and Safety
Code Section 11018 and further shall specifically include any product that
contains marijuana or a derivative of marijuana.

“Medical marijuana collective” means the following: an unincorporated or
incorporated entity or association of qualified patients and/or primary caregivers
and/or persons with identification cards, who provide money and in-kind
contributions, reimbursements, and reasonable compensation towards the
aforementioned entity’s actual expenses for activities including, but not limited to,
planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging, providing and/or retail
sales of medical marijuana. A medical marijuana collective may provide medical
marijuana, products, services and assistance to qualified patients, persons with a

5

medical marijuana identification card (as set forth in the MMPA), or the primary
caregiver of such persons. Medical marijuana collectives may assist with the
acquisition of skills necessary to cultivate or provide marijuana for medical
purposes in compliance with State Law. A medical marijuana collective includes
any facility, building, structure or location, whether permanent, or temporary,
where marijuana is made available, sold, given, distributed, or otherwise
provided in accordance with Health and Safety Code section 11362.5 et seq. A
medical marijuana collective includes medical marijuana “cooperatives” and
“collectives” that are established as not for profit entities.

(1) “Medical marijuana collectives" shall not include, nor be
interpreted to include, any of the following:

(a)	Any location which is a legal dwelling zoned exclusively for
residential use and not permitted for any commercial activity.

(b)	Any vehicle or other mode of transportation, stationary or
mobile, which is used to cultivate, distribute, process, administer,
deliver, give away, or transport marijuana to any person, including a
qualified patient, a person with an identification card, or a primary
caregiver.

(c)	The location of any clinic licensed pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 1200), a health care facility licensed
pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1250), a
residential care facility for persons with chronic life-threatening
illness licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.01 (commencing with
Section 1568.01), a residential care facility for the elderly licensed
pursuant to Chapter 3.2 (commencing with Section 1569), a
hospice, or a home health agency licensed pursuant to Chapter 8
(commencing with Section 1725), any facility specified in Division 2
of the California Health and Safety Code where: (i) a qualified
patient or person with an identification card receives medical care
or supportive services, or both, from the clinic, facility, hospice, or
home health agency, and (ii) the owner or operator, or one of not
more than three employees designated by the owner or operator, of
the clinic, facility, hospice, or home health agency has been
designated as a primary caregiver pursuant to California Health and
Safety Code Section 11362.7(d) by that qualified patient or person
with an identification card.

“Premises” means the space in any buildings of a medical marijuana
collective together with the spaces within any structures, yards, open spaces, lot
width, and lot area at a location that is occupied or used in the operation of the
medical marijuana collective.

6

"Reasonable compensation” means compensation commensurate with
reasonable wages and benefits paid to employees of IRS-qualified non-profit
organizations who have similar job descriptions and duties, required level of
education and experience, prior individual earnings history, and number of hours
worked. The payment of a bonus shall not be considered "reasonable
compensation."

“Religious institution" means a building which is used primarily for religious
worship and related religious activities and which possesses all necessary
permits, certificates of occupancy and licensing to operate within the City of
Los Angeles.

“Structure” means anything constructed or erected which is supported
directly or indirectly on the ground, but not including any vehicle.

“Vehicle” means a conveyance or device by which any person or property
may be propelled, moved, or drawn upon a street, sidewalk or waterway,
including but not limited to a device moved exclusively by human power.

B.	The following words or phrases when used in this section shall be
construed as defined in California Health and Safety Code Sections 1746,
11362.5, and 11362.7.

“Hospice”; “Identification card”;

“Person with an identification card;” "Primary caregiver”; and

“Qualified patient”.

SEC. 45.19.6.2. MEDICAL MARIJUANA COLLECTIVES PROHIBITED.

A.	It shall be unlawful to own, establish, operate, use, or permit the
establishment or operation of a medical marijuana collective, or to participate as
an employee, contractor, agent, volunteer, or in any manner or capacity other
than as provided in this article 5.1.

B.	The general prohibition contained in this section shall include
renting, leasing, or otherwise permitting a medical marijuana collective to occupy
or use a location, vehicle, or other mode of transportation.

SEC. 45.19.6.3. LIMITED IMMUNITY.

A medical marijuana collective shall be immune to the prohibition set out
in Section 45.19.6.2 and the remedies set forth in Los Angeles Municipal Code
section 11.00, including criminal prosecution, so long as that medical marijuana
collective is registered with the City Clerk pursuant to this article and complies
with all operational requirements provided in this section.

7

A. REGISTRATION.

1.	Registration Required. No medical marijuana collective shall be subject
to the limited immunity and operational requirements provisions of this
article until it has filed an intent to register form in accordance with the
provisions of this article, has paid all applicable registration fees, and its
registration has been accepted as complete by the City Clerk.
Notwithstanding the above, medical marijuana collectives that register
pursuant to priority registration provisions in Section 45.19.6.3 A.3 may
operate during the registration process until such a time as their
registration is denied or accepted by the City Clerk but for no longer than 6
months after the medical marijuana collective first filed its “intent to
register form." No other medical marijuana collective may operate under
the priority registration exception unless it submitted an “intent to register
form" in accordance with this section.

2.	Registration.

i.	The City Clerk shall create a registration form for medical
marijuana collectives to file their notice of intent to register pursuant
to this article. This form shall be titled the “Intent to Register Form”.

ii.	The City Clerk shall initially allow two periods for priority
registration of medical marijuana collectives to register pursuant to
this article. The first priority registration period shall begin seven (7)
days after the effective date of this ordinance and last 10 business
days. The second priority registration period shall begin no later
than 45 days after the effective date of the ordinance and shall last
10 business days.

iii.	No later than 270 days after the completion of the second
priority registration period the City Clerk shall allow the registration
of additional medical marijuana collectives in the City subject to the
conditions of this article and subject to the registration requirements
detailed in Section 45.19.6.3.

3.	Priority Registration.

i.	Beginning on the date that is seven (7) days after the effective
date of this ordinance, and lasting for 10 business days, any
medical marijuana collective that: (1) possesses a valid City of Los
Angeles Tax Registration Certificate designation L050 - with an
issue date on or before October 9, 2012; (2) possesses a valid City
of Los Angeles Tax Registration Certificate designation L044 - with
an issue date on or before October 9, 2012; (3) possesses a valid
City of Los Angeles Tax Registration designation L049 - with an

8

issue date on or before October 9, 2012; (4) possesses a valid
State Board of Equalization sellers permit for the sale of medical
marijuana which was applied for and issued on or before October 9,
2012; (5) pays the required registration fee as determined by the
City Clerk; (6) provides the name, phone number, and e-mail
address of each manager together with proof that each manager
has submitted a Live Scan and Live Scan application to the Los
Angeles Police Department pursuant to this article; (7) provides the
name, phone number and e-mail address of each member and/or
employee that distributes medical marijuana, together with proof
that each manager has submitted a Live Scan and Live Scan
application to the Los Angeles Police Department; (8) provides its
current location of operation and proof that it operates with the
approval of its current landlord; and (9) identifies a location that it
will occupy after registration that meets the requirements of this
article; may submit its notice of intent to register with the City Clerk.

ii.	Beginning on the date that is 45 days after the effective date of
this ordinance, and lasting for 10 business days, any medical
marijuana collective that: (1) possesses a valid City of Los Angeles
Tax Registration Certificate designation L050 with an issue date on
or before October 20, 2012; (2) possesses a valid City of Los
Angeles Tax Registration Certificate designation L044 with an issue
date on or before October 20, 2012; (3) possesses a valid City of
Los Angeles Tax Registration designation L049 with an issue date
on or before October 20, 2012; (4) possesses a valid State Board
of Equalization sellers permit for the sale of medical marijuana with
an issue date on or before October 20, 2012; (5) pays the required
registration fee as determined by the City Clerk; (6) provides the
name, phone number, and e-mail address of each manager
together with proof that each manager has submitted a Live Scan
and Live Scan application to the Los Angeles Police Department
pursuant to this article; (7) provides the name, phone number and
e-mail address of each member and/or employee that distributes
medical marijuana, together with proof that each manager has
submitted a Live Scan and Live Scan application to the Los
Angeles Police Department; (8) provides its current location of
operation and proof that it operates with the approval of its current
landlord; and (9) identifies a location that it will occupy after
registration that meets the requirements of this article; may submit
its notice of intent to register with the City Clerk.

4.	Priority Order.

i. All medical marijuana collectives that meet the applicable
requirements provided in Subsection A(1), (2) or (3), above, and

that notify the City Clerk of their intention to register under this
article at an identified location shall be eligible to be registered
pursuant to this article. Priority order shall be applied to each
registration group under Section 45.19.6.3 A.3(i) and 45.19.6.3
A.3(ii) separately. At no time shall the registrants provided priority
in Section 45.19.6.3. A.3(ii) have registration priority over those
registrants provided priority under Section 45.19.6.3 A.3(i). The
City Clerk shall provide registration priority to medical marijuana
collectives who operated in the City longer. In order to determine
the length a medical marijuana collective has operated in the City,
the City Clerk shall use the earliest issue date appearing on any
required City Tax Registration Certificate provided by the
registrants during the medical marijuana collective’s registration to
determine the priority order in which the City Clerk will complete
registration of medical marijuana collectives.

ii. The date each medical marijuana collective registration is
deemed completed by the City Clerk shall determine priority in the
operation of a medical marijuana collective pursuant to the zoning
prohibition in Section 45.19.6.3 B(5).

5.	Genera! Registration.

i.	Beginning on the date that is no sooner than 270 days after the
completion of the second registration period, the City Clerk shall
allow additional applicants to submit an intent to register form with
the City Clerk. The submission of an intent to register form does
not provide the medical marijuana collective the ability to operate
until its registration has been deemed complete by the City Clerk.

ii.	Every medical marijuana collective that: (1) possesses a valid
City of Los Angeles Tax Registration Certificate designation L050;
(2) possesses a valid City of Los Angeles Tax Registration
Certificate designation L044; (3) possesses a valid City of Los
Angeles Tax Registration designation L049; (4) possesses a valid
State Board of Equalization sellers permit for the sale of medical
marijuana; (5) pays the required registration fee as determined by
the City Clerk; (6) provides the name, phone number, and e-mail
address of each manager together with proof that each manager
has submitted a Live Scan and Live Scan application to the Los
Angeles Police Department pursuant to this article; (7) provides the
name, phone number and e-mail address of each member and/or
employee that distributes medical marijuana, together with proof
that each manager has submitted a Live Scan and Live Scan
application to the Los Angeles Police Department; and (8) identifies
a location that it will occupy after registration that meets the

10

requirements of this article; may submit its notice of intent to
register with the City Clerk pursuant to the general registration.

6.	Modification of Intent to Register Form and Registration.

i.	The City Clerk shall allow a medical marijuana collective, which
timely submitted an intent to register form, the ability to amend its
intent to register form, as needed, and in compliance with this
article.

ii.	After the completed registration of each medical marijuana
collective, the City Clerk shall allow each registered medical
marijuana collective the ability to update its registration, as needed,
and in compliance with this article.

B. OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.

A medical marijuana collective shall be immune to the prohibition set out
in Section 45.19.6.2 and the remedies set forth in Los Angeles Municipal Code
Section 11.00, including criminal prosecution, so long as that medical marijuana
collective is registered as pursuant to Section 45.19.6.3 above and complies with
the following operational requirements:

1.	The medical marijuana collective possesses valid Business Tax
Registration Certificates with Designation L050, L044 and L049;

2.	The medical marijuana collective possesses a valid and current State
Board of Equalization seller’s permit;

3.	The medical marijuana collective maintains proper documentation and
registration of its employees pursuant to the requirements of the State
Employment Development Department;

4.	The medical marijuana collective shall make available to the City Clerk
the names of each person who dispenses marijuana at the medical
marijuana collective together with a Live Scan background check of each
such person, and shall only allow those persons whose names are
submitted to the City Clerk to dispense medical marijuana;

5.	The medical marijuana collective shall not be located within:

i.	a 1000-foot radius of a “school” as defined under Health and
Safety Code § 11362.768 (h);

ii.	a 500-foot radius of a public park, public library, licensed child
care facility, youth center, substance abuse rehabilitation center,

11

religious institution and any other registered medical marijuana
collectives;

iii.	The distances specified in this paragraph shall be the horizontal
distance measured in a straight line from the property line of the
school, public park, public library, religious institution, licensed child
care facility, youth center, substance abuse rehabilitation center, or
other medical marijuana collective(s), to the closest property line of
the lot on which the medical marijuana collective is located without
regard to intervening structures;

6.	The medical marijuana collective may not be more than 30 days past
due on its City taxes from the date it first submitted its intent to register
form;

7.	The medical marijuana collective shall not cease operation in the City
for more than a 90 day period of time from the day it first submitted its
intent to register form, as evidenced by its self-reported disclosures to the
City, by City field inspection, by lack of activity on its utilities bills, by the
return to the City by the U.S. Postal Service of mail sent to the business
by the City, or by confirmation from the Los Angeles Police Department or
any law enforcement agency of a closure arising out of a law enforcement
proceeding;

i. For purposes of this subsection, a medical marijuana collective
will not be deemed to have ceased operations if closure or non-
operation was in response to a letter or notice from the Federal
government or any of its agencies.

8.	The medical marijuana collective shall not be more than 60 days past
due in the annual renewal of its City business tax registration from the
date it first submitted its intent to register form;

9.	The medical marijuana collective shall remain closed and/or shall not
operate between the hours of 10 PM and 10 AM;

10.	The medical marijuana collective shall not allow any minors to enter
its premises;

11.	The medical marijuana within a medical marijuana collective shall not
be visible from the exterior of the business’s premises;

12.	The medical marijuana collective shall not illuminate the interior of its
premises during closure hours by lighting that is substantially visible from
the exterior of the premises, except such lighting that is utilized for the
security of the premises;

12

13.	The medical marijuana collective shall bar ingress or egress to its
premises on any side of its location that abuts or is across a street, alley
or walk from, or has a common corner, with a residential use of land,
except that an exit door required by this Code may be maintained for
emergency egress only and must be locked from the exterior at all times;

14.	Prior to being offered a position of management or employment at a
medical marijuana collective, an applicant for a position of manager,
volunteer, or employee of the medical marijuana collective who dispenses
medical marijuana must submit and successfully pass an annual LAPD
Live Scan background check by December 31 of each year in order to be
employed at the medical marijuana collective. A failed LAPD Live Scan is
any Live Scan that shows a felony conviction having occurred within the
past 10 years and/or shows that the manager, volunteer, or employee is
currently on parole or probation for the sale or distribution of a controlled
substance;

15.	The medical marijuana collective shall prohibit the sale, dispensing, or
consumption of alcoholic beverages at its location or in the parking area of
the location;

16.	During those hours that the medical marijuana collective is closed or
not operating, the medical marijuana collective shall not keep and not
store medical marijuana that is not in a locked vault or safe, or other
secured storage structure. In the event that any dried medical marijuana
is to be stored in a safe or vault, such safe or vault must be bolted to the
floor or structure of the premises;

17.	The medical marijuana collective shall not allow any persons to
inhale, smoke, eat, ingest, or otherwise consume marijuana at the
location, in the parking areas of the location, or in those areas restricted
under the provisions of California Health and Safety Code section

11362.79. This prohibition shall not apply to a qualified patient's use of
marijuana for his or her own medical needs if the qualified patient's
permanent legal residence is at the medical marijuana collective’s
location, nor shall this prohibition limit or conflict with the exceptions
provided in local and state law that permit smoking in designated areas
within licensed residential medical and elder care facilities;

18.	The medical marijuana collective shall utilize the Live Scan
background check system as set forth in this article prior to employing any
manager, volunteer, or employee. The medical marijuana collectives’
managers must be registered members of the medical marijuana
collective. A medical marijuana collective shall not knowingly employ any
manager who has been convicted of a felony within the previous 10 years,
or be currently on parole or probation for the sale or distribution of a

13

controlled substance. Any person who does not qualify under this section
shall not be engaged directly or indirectly in the management of the
medical marijuana collective and, further, shall not manage, or benefit
from the receipts and expenses of the medical marijuana collective.
Verification of all Live Scan applications received by a medical marijuana
collective shall be processed and received by the Los Angeles Police
Department in accordance with California Department of Justice
guidelines;

19.	The medical marijuana collective shall not engage in, participate in, or
otherwise engage in the manufacture of concentrated cannabis in violation
of California Health and Safety Code section 11379.6;

20.	Medical marijuana collectives shall not operate as a for-profit entity.
Individual member/s may not receive remuneration above and beyond
reasonable compensation. Cash and in-kind contributions,
reimbursements, and reasonable compensation provided by members
towards the medical marijuana collective's actual expenses including but
not limited to the growth, cultivation, and provision of medical marijuana
shall be allowed provided that they are in compliance with State Law;

21.	The medical marijuana collective shall not maintain more than
$200.00 in cash overnight at its location, and shall make twice daily bank
drops that include all cash collected by the business on that day;

22.	The medical marijuana collective shall have no interior illumination of
any exterior signs nor shall any interior signs be visible from the exterior of
the premises be allowed;

23.	The windows and roof hatches of the building or portion of the
medical marijuana collective’s building where the medical marijuana
collective is located shall be secured from the inside with bars or other
reasonable security measures so as to prevent unauthorized entry, and
shall be equipped with latches that may be released quickly from the
inside to allow egress in the event of an emergency in compliance with ail
applicable building code provisions;

24.	The medical marijuana collective location shall be monitored at all
times by web-based closed-circuit television for security purposes. The
camera and recording system must be of adequate quality, color rendition
and resolution to allow for the reasonable identification of any individual
committing a crime anywhere on or adjacent to the location. The
recordings shall be maintained for a period of not less than 90 days;

25.	Exterior doors to the medical marijuana collective shall remain locked
from the outside to prevent unauthorized ingress to the premises of the

14

medical marijuana collective. Ingress shall be allowed by means of a
remote release operated from within the premises of the medical
marijuana collective. In all cases, doors shall remain openable from the
inside to allow egress without the use of a key or special knowledge. If
installed, access controlled egress doors shall comply with Section
1008.1.3.4 of the California Building Code;

26.	The medical marijuana collective shall provide a duly-licensed and
uniformed security guard patrol for the premises during all hours of
operation;

27.	A sign shall be posted at the entrance to the medical marijuana
collective containing the name and functioning telephone number of a 24-
hour on-call manager who shall receive, log, and respond to complaints
and other inquires on behalf of the medical marijuana collective;

28.	The medical marijuana collective shall provide parking at a ratio of
one parking space per 300 square feet of floor area. For purposes of
applying the parking ratio, the floor area of the medical marijuana
collective will only include those areas dedicated to the packaging and
dispensing of marijuana;

29.	No later than March 15 of every year, each medical marijuana
collective shall file with the City Controller an audit of its operations of the
previous calendar year, completed and certified by an independent
certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing
and accounting principles. The audit shall include, without limitation, a
discussion, analysis, and verification of each of the records required to be
maintained pursuant to Section 45.19.6.4 of this Article; and

30.	The medical marijuana collective shall analyze a representative
sample of dried medical marijuana and a representative sample of edible
marijuana using a liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry/mass
spectrometry method of analysis for pesticides and any other regulated
contaminants, pursuant to established local, state, or federal regulatory or
statutory standards at levels of sensitivity established for the food and
drug supply, before providing the medical marijuana to its members. Any
medical marijuana from which the representative sample analysis tests
positive for a pesticide or other contaminant at a level which exceeds the
local, state, or federal regulatory or statutory standard for the food and
drug supply shall not be provided to members and shall be destroyed
forthwith. Any medical marijuana provided to members shall be properly
labeled in strict compliance with state and local laws.

Each violation of this article shall constitute a separate violation and shall
be subject to all remedies and enforcement measures authorized by Section
11.00 of this Code. Additionally, as a nuisance per se, any violation of this article
shall be subject to legally authorized remedies, including procedures for
injunctive relief, as well as procedures to revoke the medical marijuana
collective's registration, certificate of occupancy for the business’s location,
disgorgement and payment to the City of any and all monies unlawfully obtained,
costs of abatement, costs of investigation, attorney’s fees, and any other relief or
remedy available at law or equity. The City may also pursue any and all
remedies and actions available and applicable under local and state laws for any
violations committed by the medical marijuana collective and persons related or
associated with such medical marijuana collective. Notwithstanding an initial
verification of compliance by the medical marijuana collective with the registration
requirements set forth in Section 45.19.6.3 of this article prior to the filing of the
registration form, any medical marijuana collective later found to be in violation at
any time of any of the registration requirements shall be subject to the
enforcement provisions provided in this section.

SEC. 45.19.6.5. SEVERABILITY

if any portion of this ordinance is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction,
that invalidity shall not affect the remaining portions of this ordinance which can
be implemented without the invalid provision, and, to this end, the provisions of
this ordinance are severable.

SECTION 3.

Majority Approval; Effective Date. This ordinance shall be effective only if
approved by a majority of voters and shall go into effect on September 3, 2013.

SECTION 4.

Competing Measures. In the event that this measure and another measure or
measures relating to the regulation of medical marijuana in the City of Los Angeles shall
appear on the same ballot, the provisions of the other measures shall be deemed to be
in conflict with this measure. In the event that this measure shall receive a greater
number of affirmative votes, the provisions of this measure shall prevail in their entirety,
and the provisions of the other relating to the regulation of medical marijuana in the City
of Los Angeles shall be null and void.

16

Amendment and Repeal. The provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
added by, amended by, or contained in this initiative measure may be amended to
further its purposes by ordinance passed by a majority vote of the Council and approved
by the Mayor. The provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code added by, amended
by, or contained in this initiative measure shall not be repealed, except by an ordinance
adopted either by petition or by the Council at its own instance and adopted by a vote of
the electors, or by an amendment of the Charter superseding the aforementioned
provisions.

17

Sec. B. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to publish a notice
containing the proposed ballot measure, specifying the date of May 21,2013, as the
date the measure is to be voted upon by the qualified voters of the City of Los Angeles.
The notice shall be published once in a newspaper of genera! circulation in the City of
Los Angeles, and in each edition thereof during that day of publication. The City Clerk
is authorized and directed to prepare and keep in the City Clerk’s office a sufficient
supply of copies of the proposed ballot measure and to distribute the proposed ballot
measure to any and all persons requesting a copy. Further, the City Clerk is authorized
and directed to mail copies of the proposed ballot measure to each of the qualified
voters of the City of Los Angeles.

Sec. C. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause a notice to be
published once in a newspaper of general circulation that copies of voter information
pamphlets containing the proposed ballot measure may be obtained upon request in the
City Clerk’s office.

Sec. D. The City Clerk shall file a duly certified copy of this Resolution forthwith
with the Board of Supervisors and with the Registrar-Recorder of the County of Los
Angeles.

I	hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting held on__________________________________.

JUNE LAGMAY, City Clerk

C.F. No.

By

Deputy

M:\Government Counsel\2013 MM Initiative 2WIM2 - Ballot Text ResoiUtion.doc

ORDINANCE NO.______________________

An ordinance calling a Special Election to be held on Tuesday, May 21,2013, for
the purpose of submitting to the qualified voters of the City of Los Angeles a certain
initiative ordinance and to consolidate this Special Election with the City’s General
Municipal Election to be held on the same date.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. A Special Election is hereby called to be held in the City of Los
Angeles on May 21,2013, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified voters of the
City a certain initiative ordinance ordered to be placed on the ballot by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles pursuant to an initiative petition.

Sec. 2. The ballot title and question to be used at the Special Election for the
initiative ordinance to be submitted to the qualified voters of the City of Los Angeles
shall be:

MEDICAL MARIJUANA REGULATION AND TAXATION. REQUIRE
COLLECTIVES TO REGISTER AND MEET OTHER REQUIREMENTS
AND OPERATIONAL STANDARDS. NO LIMITATION ON NUMBER
THAT CAN REGISTER. EXEMPT DWELLINGS ZONED RESIDENTIAL
FROM REGULATION. INCREASE TAXES ON COLLECTIVES.

INITIATIVE ORDINANCE______.

Shall an ordinance regulating associations of qualified patients and/or
primary caregivers who cultivate, provide or engage in other activities
related to marijuana for medical purposes (MMCs) by: (1) prohibiting
MMCs but providing limited immunity for MMCs that register with the City
(without limiting the number that can register but giving registration priority
to those possessing City tax certificates by October 2012), generally have
not ceased operations for more than 90 days, pass annual background
checks, are separated from residential uses, maintain certain distances
from schools, parks, child care facilities, other designated places and
other MMCs, and meet other requirements and operational standards; (2)
exempting dwellings zoned residential, and other exemptions; and (3)
increasing the MMC tax to $60 per each $1,000 of gross receipts; be
adopted?

Sec. 3. The initiative ordinance shall be designated on the ballot or ballot pages
by a letter or number by the City Council in accordance with applicable City laws. Upon
the designation by the proper officials of the letter or number to be assigned to the
initiative ordinance, that letter or number is hereby adopted and shall be the designation
for the ballot title.

1

Sec. 4. To vote on the initiative ordinance, the voter shall mark the ballot next to
the word ‘Yes” or the word “No." A Yes” vote shall be counted in favor of adoption of
the initiative ordinance and a “No” vote shall be counted against adoption of the initiative
ordinance.

Sec. 5. The Special Election hereby called shall be, and hereby is ordered to be,
consolidated with the City’s General Municipal Election to be held in the City of Los
Angeles on Tuesday, May 21, 2013.

Sec. 6. The voting polls on election day shall open at 7:00 a.m., May 21,2013,
and shall remain open until 8:00 p.m. of the same day when the voting polls shall be
closed, except as provided in City Election Code Section 857.

Sec. 7. The election precincts, polling places, and officers of election for the
Special Election shall be the same as those provided in the City of Los Angeles for the
General Municipal Election, and the election shall be held in all respects as if there were
only one election. Furthermore, for the precincts, polling places, and officers of election,
reference is hereby made to the list that will be prepared and approved by the City Clerk
and filed in the City Clerk’s Office not later than April 21, 2013, and that list is
incorporated into and made part of this ordinance.

Sec. 8. In all other particulars, the Special Election shall be held and conducted
as provided by law for holding of the General Municipal Election in the City of Los
Angeles.

2

Sec. 9. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage of this ordinance and have it
published in accordance with Council policy, either in a daily newspaper circulated
in the City of Los Angeles or by posting for ten days in three public places in the City of
Los Angeles: one copy on the bulletin board located at the Main Street entrance to the
Los Angeles City Hail; one copy on the bulletin board located at the Main Street
entrance to the Los Angeles City Hail East; and one copy on the bulletin board located
at the Temple Street entrance to the Los Angeles County Hall of Records.

I hereby certify that this ordinance was passed by the Council of the City of
Los Angeles, at its meeting of___________________________.

JUNE LAGMAY, City Clerk

By

Deputy

Approved

Mayor

Approved as to Form and Legality

CARMEN A. TRUTANICH, City Attorney

File No. A?

M:\Government Counsel\2013 MM Initiative 2\MM2 - Election Ordinance.doc

3