BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE A	
MkMEASURE A: Bolinas-Stinson Union School District Special Tax Assessment for Education Pro- grams. Shall the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District continue funding quality programs by levying a special tax assessrr per year per assessor’s parcel for a limited (6) years, beginning July 1, 2014, with a for any beneficial owner of a parcel who the age of 65 on or before May 1 of any apj who uses that parcel as his or her principa	YES  NO  educational lent of $300. period of six n exemption has attained dicable year, I residence?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE A

BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL
DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR
BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL
DISTRICT’S EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
existing current Bolinas-Stinson Unified School District
special tax assessment will expire and will be replaced
with a new special tax assessment of Three Hundred Dol-
lars ($300.00) annually per assessor’s parcel for a period
of 6 years beginning July 1,2014. Parcel owners who have
attained the age of 65 on or before May 1 of any applica-
ble year and who use those parcels as their principal resi-
dence will be exempted from the tax.

s/STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
Interim County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Our communities have generously supported a local
parcel tax benefitting public education since 1995. This has
allowed our school district to maintain quality programs,
maintain low class sizes, and provide rich core programs
that include visual arts, music, dance, and physical educa-
tion. Your parcel tax dollars help to keep our school library
open, fund classroom aides and counselors, as well as pur-
chase of instructional materials and technology that
enhance instruction and improve core academic skills. Ex-
tension of the parcel tax will allow us to continue to pro-
vide rich instructional programs and adequate support ser-
vices for our students, including an organic lunch program,
home-to-school transportation, intervention for struggling
students, and support for English language learners.

Bolinas-Stinson has endured severe cuts in education
funding by the state over the past five years, resulting in
reduced or flat funding for our schools. Meanwhile the
cost of doing business including salaries, health benefits,
materials, utility costs and other maintenance and operat-
ing expenses, has increased every year. Measure A will
provide stable funding that cannot be taken away by
Sacramento.

Measure A is not a new tax, but rather a continuation
of the support the community has given to its schools
since 1995. It will take effect when the current tax expires
on June 30,2014. Your continued support for public edu-
cation enables us to provide a high quality education for
the children of our community. Please join us in the ongo-
ing commitment to public education by voting YES on
Measure A.
s/ARIANNE DAR
BSUSD Board President
s/MEG SIMONDS
Community Member
s/BETH PERRY
Community Member
s/KENDRICK RAND
Community Member
s/JENNIFER BLACKMAN
Community Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A
WAS SUBMITTED.

SA-1

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

Bolinas-Stinson Union School District
Resolution # 11 2012-2013
RESOLUTION AND ORDER OF ELECTION
IN THE MATTER OF A SPECIAL TAX
ELECTION TO MAINTAIN AND EXPAND
SCHOOL PROGRAMS

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to
provide adequate and necessary funding for the continued
operations of the schools of the Bolinas-Stinson Union
Schools district and their instructional programs; and

WHEREAS, as a result of this lack of funding for the
schools, Bolinas Stinson Union School District is in dan-
ger of eliminating study programs beneficial and neces-
sary to the children who attend the schools of the district;
and

WHEREAS, continued reliance solely on state funding
will result in further loss of critical programs; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and Government Code Sections 50075,
50076, 50077, 50079 and 53720 et seq. authorize school
districts to levy a “Special Tax” to raise funds for the pur-
pose of providing funds to run the schools of the district
upon approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters
voting upon such a special tax proposal;

WHEREAS, passage of a state Constitutional Amend-
ment would allow local voters to decide to make invest-
ments in their neighborhood schools in addition to state
funding;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Gov
eming Board of the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District
resolves to conduct a regular election on June 4, 2013, at
which will be submitted to the qualified voters of the
Bolinas-Stinson Union School District a measure to autho-
rize a special tax for the purpose of continuing and
expanding vital educational programs, critical to the edu-
cational process in the schools of the district;

BE IT RESOLVED, FURTHERMORE, BY THE GOV-
ERNING BOARD OF THE BOLINAS-STINSON
UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held
within the boundaries of the Bolinas-Stinson Union
School District, at which elections shall be submitted to
the qualified voters the following measure, to wit:

Shall the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District provide
funds for the continuation of quality educational programs
by levying a special tax assessment of $ 300. per annual
payment or per assessors parcel for a limited period of six
(6) years, beginning July 1, 2014, with an exemption for
any beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age
of 65 on or before May 1 of any applicable year, who uses
that parcel as his or her principal residence?

The funds shall be used for;

District Programs: Maintain present education programs
including Art, Music, Foreign Language, Physical Educa-
tion and maintain reasonable class size.

Basic Instructional materials: maintain adequate per stu-
dent allowance and update classroom texts to ensure ade-
quate quantity and quality of texts.

Educational and instructional equipment and supplies:
maintain current instructional equipment.

Operation and maintenance: maintain sufficient staff for
efficient operation and adequate allowance for building
and grounds maintenance.

Priorities for expenditures of funds the first and each suc-
cessive year will be determined by the Governing Board
with input from staff, parents and the community.

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $ 300. for
each assessors parcel. An exemption from the assessment
will be made available to each individual in the district
who will attain age 65 years prior to May 1 of the assess-
ment year, who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel,
who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of resi-
dence, and who applies to the District on or before May 1,
2014 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any
one application from a qualified applicant will provide an
exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the
assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the
parcel as his or her principal residence.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each
individual ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as fol-
lows:

BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL
DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

“Shall the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District con-
tinue funding quality educational programs by levying
a special tax assessment of $ 300. per year per asses-
sor’s parcel for a limited period of six (6) years, begin-
ning July 1, 2014, with an exemption for any benefi-
cial owner of a parcel who has attained the age of 65
on or before May 1 of any applicable year, who uses
that parcel as his or her principal residence?”

YES	NO

Section 3:	Commencing	on	July 1,2014, the special tax

specified above, shall be collected and administered in the
same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and
collected under provisions of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code.

Section 4:	The	Superintendent	of	Schools of Marin

County is hereby requested to call a regular election of the
said “special tax” to be held on 6/4/2013. The county
Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to: 1) set forth on
all sample ballots relating to said election to be mailed to
the qualified electors of the Bolinas-Stinson Union School
District said measure; and 2) provide absent voter ballots
for said “special Tax” election for use by qualified electors
of the Bolinas-Stinson Union schools District who are
entitled thereto in the manner provided by law.

Section 5. If any section, sub-section, phrase or clause
of this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining por-

SA-2

tion of this resolution. This governing board declares that
it would have adopted this resolution and each section,
sub-section, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, sub-sections, sentences,
phrases or clauses be declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Bolinas-Stinson Union
School District Governing Board is hereby authorized and
directed to certify to the due adoption of this resolution
and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Superin-
tendent of Schools of Marin County and to file a copy
hereof so certified with the county Clerk of Marin County.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Bolinas-Stinson Union
School District Board of Trustees at a meeting held on
3/5/2013 the following vote:

AYES:	4

NOES:	1

ABSENT:	0

ABSTAIN: 0

SA-3