Measure B

Parcel Tax Renewal
Los Gatos Union School District

2/3 Approval Required

Official Final Results

Without increasing tax rates and to protect outstanding core academic programs in
reading, writing, math, and science; retain highly-qualified teachers; keep
classroom technology, science resources, books and instructional materials
updated; and maintain art and music; shall the Los Gatos Union School District be
authorized to renew its expiring annual education tax of $290 per parcel for eight
years, with citizen oversight, no funds for administrators' salaries, a senior citizen
exemption, and all funds staying in Los Gatos schools?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to renew a qualified special tax of $290 per parcel on
parcels within the District for an eight-year period of time.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote not to renew a qualified special tax of $290 per parcel on
parcels within the District for an eight-year period of time.

Impartial Analysis

A school district, following notice and a public hearing, has authority to levy a
qualified special tax upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on a
proposal pursuant to section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution
and Sections 50075 et seq. of the California Government Code.

On June 3, 2008, the voters within the Los Gatos Union School District [District]
renewed a qualified special tax on parcels within the District, in the amount of $290 per
parcel for a period of six years. This parcel tax will expire on June 30, 2014. The Board
of Trustees [Board] of the District proposes renewing this qualified special tax for an
additional eight years, in the amount of $290, commencing on July 1, 2014. The
proposed tax includes an exemption for any parcel that is a principal residence of, and
owned by, one or more persons 65 years of age or older, and for persons receiving
supplemental security income, regardless of age. The exemption would be made
available by application to the District.

The stated purposes of the tax proposed by Measure B are to (1) maintain academic
programs in reading, writing, math and science programs; (2) retain teachers; [3] keep
classroom technology, science resources, books and instructional materials updated;
and [4] maintain art and music. The proceeds of the tax could only be spent for these
specific purposes.

The District is required to provide accountability measures for the proceeds of the tax.
These measures include depositing the proceeds of the tax into a fund that is separate
and apart from other funds of the District. Additionally, an annual written report is to be
made to the Board, no later than December 31st of each year the tax is in effect,
detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project
authorized to be funded from the tax. In addition, an advisory committee of citizens will
be appointed by the Board to review the proper spending of the tax proceeds, and to
report annually to the Board and the public regarding the expenditures of these
proceeds.

A "yes" vote is a vote to renew a qualified special tax of $290 per parcel on parcels
within the District for an eight-year period of time.

A "no" vote is a vote not to renew a qualified special tax of $290 per parcel on parcels
within the District for an eight-year period of time.

Lori E. Pegg
Acting County Counsel
By: /s/ Susan Swain
Lead Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure B

Vote YES on B to protect outstanding
education for our local elementary and
middle school students without
increasing taxes bv a single penny.

We all live in Los Gatos and Monte
Sereno for our neighborhoods' unique
charm, unparalleled views and excellent
local schools. After all, our top-ranked
schools make our neighborhoods
desirable and keep our property values
strong.

Local elementary and middle school
students receive an outstanding
education that prepares them to excel in
high school, attend top colleges and
succeed in future jobs. In fact, local
students' academic test scores are higher
than ever, and Fisher Middle School was
recently nominated for the prestigious
California Distinguished School Award.

Our schools are excellent due to our
community's consistent support. Since

1990, local voters have voted to approve
local funding measures for our schools to
protect a rigorous academic curriculum
in local classrooms. This critical, local
school funding will exprire soon unless
local voters choose to renew it again by
voting YES on Measure B.

Without increasing taxes. Measure B
renews essential funding for our
neighborhood schools that cannot be
taken away by the State.

Vote YES on B:

•	Protect outstanding core
academic programs in reading,
writing, math and science

•	Retain skilled and qualified
teachers

•	Keep classroom technology,
science resources, books and
instructional materials up-to-date

•	Support art and music programs

Measure B includes citizen oversight and
financial accountability:

•	Every penny stays in our schools
and cannot be taken by the State

•	Independent citizen oversight
ensures funds are spent as
promised

•	No funds for administrators'
salaries

•	Expires in 8 years and cannot be
renewed without voter approval

•	Senior citizen homeowners can
receive an exemption

Meaure B protects exceptional education
for local students and keeps our
community strong. Join hundreds of
parents, retirees and community
leaders— vote YES on Measure B.

/s/ Sandy Decker

Former Mayor, Town of Los Gatos

/s/ Carl Guardino
President and CEO, Silicon Valley
Leadership Group and Resident of Monte
Sereno

/s/ Ducky Grabill
Sereno Group Realtor

/s/ Randi Chen

Parent, R.J. Fisher Middle School

/s/ Bret Y Moore
Local Business Owner

Arguments Against Measure B

No argument against Measure B was submitted.

Full Text of Measure B
LOS GATOS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

Measure B

RECITALS

The Governing Board ("Board") of the Los Gatos Union School District ("District") has
established the goals of improving academic performance and the quality of education
for all children in the District so that they are prepared for college and to compete for
good jobs. Furthermore, the District aims to enhance local control of our schools and
reduce our dependence on the State of California for education funding.

Los Gatos students receive an excellent, well-rounded education that includes strong
academic programs in reading, writing, math and science. Students achieve top scores
on statewide exams, and Fisher Middle School was recently nominated for the
prestigious California Distinguished School Award. We believe that our exceptional
public schools are part of why our community is such a desirable place to live and
helps protect our local property values.

Since 1990, the Los Gatos and Monte Sereno communities have supported our local
elementary and middle schools through a local education parcel tax measure to
support high student achievement, retain high-quality teachers, and protect our

outstanding academic programs. Unless renewed by local voters, this voter-approved
funding is set to expire in 2014.

Our District relies on this stable source of funding, which cannot be taken away by the
State, to provide high-quality academic programs and retain highly skilled, experienced
teachers.

The education parcel tax will renew this source of local funding, without increasing tax
rates, to maintain excellent academic programs, retain skilled and qualified teachers,
provide up-to-date classroom technology, science resources and instructional
materials, support art and music programs and keep schools safe and clean.

By law, all funds from this local funding measure must be used to protect the specified
programs in District schools and cannot be taken away by the State. Strict
accountability is mandatory, including no funds for administrators' salaries and
independent citizen oversight and annual reports to ensure funds are spent as
promised.

TERMS

Without increasing tax rates and to protect outstanding core academic programs in
reading, writing, math, and science; retain highly-qualified teachers; keep classroom
technology, science resources, books and instructional materials updated; and
maintain art and music; shall the Los Gatos Union School District be authorized to
renew its expiring annual education tax of $290 per parcel for eight years, with citizen
oversight, no funds for administrators' salaries, a senior citizen exemption, and all
funds staying in Los Gatos schools?

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

The special tax shall be $290 per Parcel of Taxable Real Property beginning in July 1,
2014 and continuing for a period of eight (8) years. The District shall provide the Santa
Clara County Tax Collector ("County Tax Collector") a report indicating the parcel
number and amount of tax for each Parcel of Taxable Real Property.

To the extent allowed by law "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" shall be defined as:

(a)	Any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad
valorem property taxes from the County Tax Collector.

(b)	All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad
valorem property taxes in any year shall not be considered a Parcel of Taxable Real
Property for purposes of the special tax in such year.

(c)	Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under common ownership, contain a single-
family residence, and that constitute one economic unit, meaning that they have the
same primary purpose as the principal parcel and are not separate and distinct
properties that may be independently developed or sold, shall comprise a single Parcel
of Taxable Real Property for purposes of the special tax. Applications for such

treatment shall be made or confirmed to the District annually on or before June 15,
2014 or June 15 of any succeeding tax year.

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary to law, the Board declares and the
voters by approving the Measure concur, that every other section and part of this
definition has independent value, and the Board and voters would have adopted each
other section and part hereof regardless of every other section or part hereof. If all
sections or parts of this definition are deemed contrary to law, "Parcel of Taxable Real
Property" shall be defined as any real property in the District assigned an assessor's
parcel number.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax
Collector shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason,
and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy
of the special tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption, the SSI Exemption, the
application of the definition of "Parcel of Taxable Real Property" to any parcel(s) or any
other disputed matter specific to the application of the special tax, the decisions of the
District shall be final and binding.

B.	Exemptions

Under procedures adopted by the District, upon application or confirmation of a
continuing exemption, an exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted
on any parcel owned by one or more persons who is/are:

1.	Sixty-five [65] years of age or over and occupying said parcel as a principal residence
("Senior Citizen Exemption"]; or

2.	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age and
occupying said parcel as a principal residence ("SSI Exemption").

C.	Claim/Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax
Collector or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations of
tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding.

With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including the Senior
Citizen Exemption, the SSI Exemption, the application of the definition of "Parcel of
Taxable Real Property" to any parcel (s) or any other disputed matter specific to the
application of the special tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding. The
procedures described herein, and any additional procedures established by the Board
shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an exemption, refund,
reduction, or re-computation of the special tax. Whether any particular claim is to be
resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the District, in
coordination with the County as necessary.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for
the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this
special tax.

E.	Accountability Measures

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific
purposes identified above.

2.	Annual Reports. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into a fund, which
shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the District, pursuant to the
Government Code. No later than December 31 of each year while the tax is in effect, the
District shall prepare and file with the Board a report detailing the amount of funds
collected and expended during the prior fiscal year, and the status of any project
authorized to be funded by this measure. The report may relate to the calendar year,
fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine, and may
be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate
routine report to the Board.

3.	Advisory Committee. An advisory committee of citizens shall be appointed or
designated by the Board to ensure that the special tax proceeds are spent for their
authorized purposes, and to report annually to the Board and the public regarding the
expenditure of such funds. The Board shall provide by resolution for the composition,
duties, funding, and other necessary information regarding the committee's formation
and operation.

F.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the District resulting
from the adoption of an education parcel tax. However, if any such funding is reduced
or affected because of the adoption of this local funding measure, then the Board may
reduce the amount of the special taxes levied as necessary in order to restore such
State or federal funding and/or maximize the District's fiscal position for the benefit of
the educational program. As a result, whether directly or indirectly, no funding from
this measure may be taken away by the State or federal governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that
every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board and the
voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision
hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part of the measure or
taxing formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain in full
force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

LOS GATOS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
LOS GATOS, CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION

#14-12-13

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE LOS GATOS UNION
SCHOOL DISTRICT CALLING AN ELECTION, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS
OF THE ELECTION ORDER, AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH OTHER
ELECTIONS OCCURRING ON MAY 7,2013

WHEREAS, the Los Gatos Union School District (“District”) is committed to offering a high-
quality educational program to all students in the District, and due to inadequate state funding,
increased local revenues are necessary to meet this goal; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (“Board”) believes that our strong local property values are
related to the quality of education available in the District’s public schools; and

WHEREAS, the State is an unreliable partner when it comes to funding education and funding
for our schools has been reduced over the past several years and is not expected to improve; and

WHEREAS, renewing this valuable source of stable, local funding that cannot be taken by the
State is necessary to maintain our outstanding educational programs and retain our qualified
teachers; and

WHEREAS, the voters of this District have a 20-year history of supporting our local schools by
voting to support school funding to protect academic excellence in local classrooms; and

WHEREAS, the existing educational parcel tax is set to expire, and unless renewed by voters
will result in a dramatic reduction of funding, which will force reductions to the District’s
academic programs; and

WHEREAS, the California Constitution and Government Code authorize the District, upon
approval of 2/3rds of the electorate, to levy qualified special taxes on property in the District for
the purpose of providing quality educational programs in the District and other lawful purposes
of the District; and

WHEREAS, an adequately funded and well-developed public education program provides
numerous benefits and advantages to all of the residents of the community; and

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Board, following public hearing and comment, it is
advisable to request that the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters (“Registrar”) call an election
and submit to the voters of the District the question whether the District shall renew a special tax
within the District for the purpose of raising additional revenue for the District; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Elections Code, a school district may, by resolution of its
governing board, conduct any election by all mailed ballots in accordance with the laws
governing all mailed ballot elections; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Education Code and Elections Code such election may be
completely or partially consolidated with any other election held on the same day and in the
same territory or territory that is in part the same.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Resolution Constitutes Order of Election. This resolution shall constitute an
order of election pursuant to the Education Code to the Santa Clara County Superintendent of
Schools (“County Superintendent”) to call an all mailed ballot election within the boundaries of
the District on May 7, 2013.

Section 2. Date and Purpose of Measure. Pursuant to the California Constitution and
Government Code, a special all mailed ballot election shall be held within the boundaries of the
District on Tuesday, May 7, 2013, for the purpose of voting on a measure (“Measure”) which
will be presented to voters in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, containing the
question of whether the District shall impose a special tax for the educational purposes stated
therein. In addition, the full text of the Measure (“Full Ballot Text”) shall appear in the ballot
pamphlet in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B. The authority for the
specifications of this election order is contained the Education Code, and the authority for
ordering the election is contained in the Education Code, Elections Code, Government Code, and
California Constitution.

Section 3. Exemptions from Special Tax. Under procedures adopted by the District, upon
application or confirmation of a continuing exemption, an exemption from payment of the
special tax may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more persons who is/are:

(a)	Sixty-five	(65)	years of age or over and occupying said parcel as a

principal residence (“Senior Citizen Exemption”); or

(b)	Receiving	Supplemental	Security Income for a disability, regardless of

age and occupying said parcel as a principal residence (“SSI
Exemption”).

The District shall annually provide to the Santa Clara County Tax Collector (“County Tax
Collector”) or other appropriate County official a list of parcels that the District has approved for
an exemption.

Section 4. Collection of the Tax. Beginning July 1, 2014 the special tax shall be collected
by the County Tax Collector, at the same time, in the same manner, and subject to the same
penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the County Tax Collector. Unpaid special
taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until
paid.

The special tax shall be levied on eveiy Parcel of Taxable Real Property in the District. To the
extent allowed by law “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as:

(a)

Any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill
for ad valorem property taxes from the County Tax Collector’s Office.

(b)

All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no
ad valorem properly taxes in any year shall not be considered a Parcel of
Taxable Real Property for purposes of the special tax in such year.

(c)

Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under common ownership,
contain a single-family residence, and that constitute one economic unit,
meaning that they have the same primary purpose as the principal parcel
and are not separate and distinct properties that may be independently
developed or sold, shall comprise a single Parcel of Taxable Real
Property for purposes of the special tax.

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary to law, the Board declares and the voters by
approving the Measure concur, that every other section and part of this definition has
independent value, and the Board and voters would have adopted each other section and part
hereof regardless of every other section or part hereof. If all sections or parts of this definition
are deemed contrary to law, “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as any real
property in the District assigned an assessor’s parcel number.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax
Collector shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that
decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax,
including the Senior Citizen Exemption, the SSI Exemption, the application of the definition of
“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” to any parcel(s) or any other disputed matter specific to the
application of the special tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.

Section 5. Authority for Ordering Election. The authority for ordering the election is
contained in the Education Code, Elections Code, Government Code, and California
Constitution.

Section 6. Authority for Specifications. The authority for the specification of this election
order is contained in the Education Code.

Section 7. Resolution to County Superintendent, Registrar and Board of Supervisors.

The Clerk of the Board is hereby directed to cause certified copies of this Resolution and order to
be delivered not later than February 6,2013, to the County Superintendent, the Registrar, and the
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of Santa Clara County (“Board of Supervisors”).

Section 8. Formal Notice. The County Superintendent is hereby requested to prepare and
execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in substantially the form
attached hereto as Exhibit C (the “Formal Notice”), and to call the election by causing the
Formal Notice to be posted in accordance with the applicable law no later than February 6,2013,
or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by law. The Secretary of the Board,

on behalf of and as may be requested by the County Superintendent, is authorized to cause all
notices required by law in connection herewith to be published and posted, as the case may be.

Section 9. Conduct of Election.

(a)	Request to Registrar. Pursuant to State law, the Registrar is requested to take all steps
to hold the election on May 7, 2013, in accordance with law and these specifications. The
election shall be conducted by means of an all mailed ballot election pursuant to the Elections
Code. The election may be consolidated with another election as specified below, if such
consolidation is feasible and appropriate.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar is hereby requested to reprint the Full Ballot Text in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B in the voter information pamphlet to be
distributed to voters pursuant to the Elections Code. In the event the Full Ballot Text will not be
reprinted in the voter information pamphlet in its entirety, the Registrar is hereby requested to
print, immediately below the impartial analysis of the Measure, in no less than 10-point boldface
type, a legend substantially as follows:

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure__. If you desire a copy

of the Measure, please call the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters at [phone

number] and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

(c)	Consolidation. The County Superintendent and the Board of Supervisors are hereby
requested to consolidate the election ordered hereby with any and all other elections as may be
held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

(d)	Canvass and Declaration of Results. The Board of Supervisors is authorized to
canvass the returns of the election and declare the result pursuant to the Elections Code.

Section 10. Appropriations Limit. The Board shall provide in each year for an increase in
the District’s appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that the proceeds of the special
tax may be spent for its authorized purposes.

Section 11. Ballot Arguments. The President of the Board and/or her designees are hereby
authorized to prepare and file with the Registrar any ballot argument prepared in connection with
the election, including a rebuttal argument, each within the time established by the Registrar,
which shall be considered the official ballot arguments of the Board as sponsor of the Measure.

Section 12. Official Actions. The District Superintendent, President of the Board, or their
designees are hereby authorized to execute any other document and to perform all acts necessary
to place the Measure on the ballot, including making alterations to the Measure and Full Ballot
Text stated in Exhibits A and B hereto, and to this Resolution to comply with requirements of
law and election officials or which are, in the judgment of the Superintendent, in the best
interests of the District.

Section 13.

Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.

ADOPTED, SIGNED and APPROVED by the Board of Trustees of the Los Gatos Union School
District on the 5th day of February, 2013, by the following vote:

AYES:	BAYS, BROOMFIELD, ETO, MARCELLIN, ORSI-HARTIGAN

NOES:	NONE

ABSTENTIONS:	NONE

Los Gatos Union School District

EXHIBIT A

SUMMARY OF MEASURE

The Measure shall be summarized in the following form, and the County of Santa Clara
Registrar of Voters is requested to cause this summary of the Measure to appear on the ballot:

Without increasing tax rates and to protect outstanding core academic programs
in reading, writing, math, and science; retain highly-qualified teachers; keep
classroom technology, science resources, books and instructional materials
updated; and maintain art and music; shall the Los Gatos Union School District
be authorized to renew its expiring annual education tax of $290 per parcel for
eight years, with citizen oversight, no funds for administrators’ salaries, a senior
citizen exemption, and all funds staying in Los Gatos schools?

EXHIBIT “B”

FULL BALLOT TEXT
LOS GATOS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
Measure____________________

[letter designation to be assigned by Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters]

RECITALS

The Governing Board (“Board”) of the Los Gatos Union School District (“District”) has
established the goals of improving academic performance and the quality of education for all
children in the District so that they are prepared for college and to compete for good jobs.
Furthermore, the District aims to enhance local control of our schools and reduce our
dependence on the State of California for education funding.

Los Gatos students receive an excellent, well-rounded education that includes strong academic
programs in reading, writing, math and science. Students achieve top scores on statewide exams,
and Fisher Middle School was recently nominated for the prestigious California Distinguished
School Award. We believe that our exceptional public schools are part of why our community is
such a desirable place to live and helps protect our local property values.

Since 1990, the Los Gatos and Monte Sereno communities have supported our local elementary
and middle schools through a local education parcel tax measure to support high student
achievement, retain high-quality teachers, and protect our outstanding academic programs.
Unless renewed by local voters, this voter-approved funding is set to expire in 2014.

Our District relies on this stable source of funding, which cannot be taken away by the State, to
provide high-quality academic programs and retain highly skilled, experienced teachers.

The education parcel tax will renew this source of local funding, without increasing tax rates, to
maintain excellent academic programs, retain skilled and qualified teachers, provide up-to-date
classroom technology, science resources and instructional materials, support art and music
programs and keep schools safe and clean.

By law, all funds from this local funding measure must be used to protect the specified programs
in District schools and cannot be taken away by the State. Strict accountability is mandatory,
including no funds for administrators’ salaries and independent citizen oversight and annual
reports to ensure funds are spent as promised.

TERMS

Without increasing tax rates and to protect outstanding core academic programs in reading,
writing, math, and science; retain highly-qualified teachers; keep classroom technology, science
resources, books and instructional materials updated; and maintain art and music; shall the Los
Gatos Union School District be authorized to renew its expiring annual education tax of $290 per

parcel for eight years, with citizen oversight, no funds for administrators’ salaries, a senior
citizen exemption, and all funds staying in Los Gatos schools?

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

The special tax shall be $290 per Parcel of Taxable Real Property beginning in July 1,
2014 and continuing for a period of eight (8) years. The District shall provide the Santa Clara
County Tax Collector (“County Tax Collector”) a report indicating the parcel number and
amount of tax for each Parcel of Taxable Real Property.

To the extent allowed by law “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as:

(a)	Any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill
for ad valorem property taxes from the County Tax Collector.

(b)	All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no
ad valorem property taxes in any year shall not be considered a Parcel of
Taxable Real Property for purposes of the special tax in such year.

(c)	Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under common ownership,
contain a single-family residence, and that constitute one economic unit,
meaning that they have the same primary purpose as the principal parcel
and are not separate and distinct properties that may be independently
developed or sold, shall comprise a single Parcel of Taxable Real
Property for purposes of the special tax. Applications for such treatment
shall be made or confirmed to the District annually on or before June 15,
2014 or June 15 of any succeeding tax year.

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary to law, the Board declares and the
voters by approving the Measure concur, that every other section and part of this definition has
independent value, and the Board and voters would have adopted each other section and part
hereof regardless of every other section or part hereof. If all sections or parts of this definition
are deemed contrary to law, “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as any real
property in the District assigned an assessor’s parcel number.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax
Collector shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that
decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax,
including the Senior Citizen Exemption, the SSI Exemption, the application of the definition of
“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” to any parcel(s) or any other disputed matter specific to the
application of the special tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.

B.	Exemptions

Under procedures adopted by the District, upon application or confirmation of a
continuing exemption, an exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted on any
parcel owned by one or more persons who is/are:

1.	Sixty-five (65) years of age or over and occupying said parcel as a principal
residence (“Senior Citizen Exemption”); or

2.	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age and
occupying said parcel as a principal residence (“SSI Exemption”).

C.	Claim / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the County Tax
Collector or other appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations of tax
exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to
matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption, the SSI
Exemption, the application of the definition of “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” to any
parcel(s) or any other disputed matter specific to the application of the special tax, the decisions
of the District shall be final and binding. The procedures described herein, and any additional
procedures established by the Board shall be the exclusive claims procedure for claimants
seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-computation of the special tax. Whether any
particular claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County shall be determined by the
District, in coordination with the County as necessary.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for the
District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

E.	Accountability Measures

1.	Specific	Purposes.	The	proceeds	of the special tax shall be applied only to the

specific purposes identified above.

2.	Annual	Reports.	The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into a

fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the District,
pursuant to the Government Code. No later than December 31 of each year
while the tax is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board a
report detailing the amount of funds collected and expended during the prior
fiscal year, and the status of any project authorized to be funded by this
measure. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine, and may be
incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate
routine report to the Board.

3.	Advisory	Committee. An advisory committee of citizens shall be appointed or

designated by the Board to ensure that the special tax proceeds are spent for
their authorized purposes, and to report annually to the Board and the public
regarding the expenditure of such funds. The Board shall provide by
resolution for the composition, duties, funding, and other necessary
information regarding the committee’s formation and operation.

F.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal funding to the District resulting from
the adoption of an education parcel tax. However, if any such funding is reduced or affected
because of the adoption of this local funding measure, then the Board may reduce the amount of
the special taxes levied as necessary in order to restore such State or federal funding and/or
maximize the District’s fiscal position for the benefit of the educational program. As a result,
whether directly or indirectly, no funding from this measure may be taken away by the State or
federal governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every
section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part of the measure or taxing formula be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing
formula hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.