CITY OF LARKSPUR MEASURE C

MEASURE C: Larkspur Street	YES
■ Repair/Essential City Services	
Measure. To repair aging and de-	NO
teriorating neighborhood streets and roads;	

repair potholes; maintain police and fire protection;
maintain 9-1-1 emergency/medical response; clear haz-
ardous and flammable brush to prevent fires and
improve emergency vehicle access; and maintain
essential city services, shall the City of Larkspur enact
a 1/2 cent sales tax for 5 years with annual performance
reviews, independent annual audits, citizens oversight,
and no money for Sacramento?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE C

The City Council of the City of Larkspur placed Measure
C on the ballot to ask the City’s voters to approve a tem-
porary one-half of one percent (0.50%) transactions and
use tax. The proposed tax would add a half-cent to the
price of an item that costs a dollar, or 500 to the price of
an item that costs $100.

Because Measure C would not limit the use of tax revenue,
it is a “general tax,” not a “special tax” that restricts the
funds to specific purposes. Therefore, the City may use the
funds for any legitimate governmental purpose. At the
time that the City Council called for an election on Mea-
sure C, it also directed the preparation of an alternative
City budget to be considered at a subsequent meeting of
the City Council. The alternative budget would be imple-
mented in the event that voters approve Measure C, direct-
ing the spending of additional revenue on projects and ser-
vices such as repairing neighborhood streets and roads;
pothole repair, maintaining police and fire protection;
maintaining 9-1-1 emergency and medical response; and
clearing hazardous and flammable brush to prevent fires
and improve emergency vehicle access.

The proposed tax would terminate automatically after five
years, unless extended by the voters.

Measure C would require the formation of a Citizens’
Oversight Committee consisting of at least five members
of the public, which could be residents, representatives of
Larkspur businesses, or a mix of the two. Each year, the
City’s auditors would complete a report reviewing the col-
lection, management, and expenditure of revenue from
Measure C. The Oversight Committee would review the
report, evaluate the projects and services provided with
revenue from Measure C, and make recommendations to
the City Council regarding priorities for expenditure of
revenue from Measure C in the following budget year,
such as spending funds on street and road repair. Measure
C requires the City Council to consider those recommen-
dations as part of its annual budget deliberations while
Measure C is in effect.

Currently, the total “sales tax” rate in Larkspur is 8.5%.
The City’s share is only 0.75% of that 8.5%.

Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination of
“sales and use tax” and “transactions and use tax.” With
some exceptions, both are levied on the sale or use of tan-

gible personal property sold at retail. Retailers collect the
tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State
Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.
Measure C would authorize a 0.50% transactions and use
tax, increasing the total sales tax rate in Larkspur to 9%.
Revenue from the tax would go to the City’s general fund
and be available to support the full range of municipal
services.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve a half-cent sales tax for
five years, with annual review by independent auditors
and a citizens’ oversight committee. A “No” vote is a vote
against the tax. Measure C would be approved if it
received a simple majority of “Yes” votes.

s/SKY WOODRUFF
City Attorney
City of Larkspur

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
or Measure C. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or
measure, please call the elections official’s office at 415-
927-5002 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Concerned about Larkspur Streets and Roads? Then
vote YES on Cl

While Larkspur’s quality of life is something we are all
proud of, our local roads are not. You have a chance to do
something about it by voting YES on C.

•	Larkspur’s roads are among the worst in the entire
Bay Area

•	Larkspur’s roads are riddled with dangerous pot-
holes and cracks

•	The cost of repairs only increases, the longer we
wait

•	These problems can’t be ignored - our roads will
only get worse and more expensive to fix

YES on C provides a locally-controlled source of funds to
address neighborhood streets and roads and other essential
service priorities.

•	YES on C will help repair deteriorating streets be-
fore their costs become even more expensive by as
much as 40 times higher.

•	YES on C also preserves funding for essential ser-
vices: police/fire protection, 911 emergency and
medical response.

•	YES on C helps clear hazardous/flammable brush,
preventing fires and improving emergency vehicle
access, drainage and seismic safety so Larkspur is
prepared for a range of natural disasters: fires,
floods, earthquakes.

YES on C is fiscally accountable and continues the
City’s tradition of transparent, responsible financial
management. YES on C requires Independent Citizens’
Oversight and annual Financial Audits and Performance
Reviews to ensure funds are spent as promised. ALL funds
are required to stay local for Larkspur and cannot be taken
by Sacramento. YES on C is legally required to end in 5
years unless renewed by voters.

Out-of-town Larkspur shoppers will pay their fair share
under Measure C, which does not apply to food purchased
as groceries or prescription medications.

Join Larkspur community and business leaders - Vote
YES on C to repair neighborhood streets and maintain our
quality of life. Visit www.RepairLarkspurStreets.com and
remember, vote YES on C!
s/DANIEL HILLMER
Mayor
s/JULIA RITTER
Larkspur-Corte Madera School Board Member
s/ROBERT B. SINNOTT
45-Year Larkspur resident/Larkspur Fire Chief

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C
WAS SUBMITTED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

CITY OF LARKSPUR
ORDINANCE No. 993
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LARKSPUR
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, Larkspur’s essential service needs in-
clude repairing deteriorating streets, roads and potholes,
preparing Larkspur for natural disasters, and preserving
public safety services such as fire and police protection
and 9-1-1 emergency medical response times;

WHEREAS, Larkspur’s streets and roads are some of
the worst in the Bay Area. In 2011, Larkspur’s roads were
rated as the second worst in the entire Bay Area;

WHEREAS, Larkspur’s neighborhood streets and
roads are deteriorating, riddled with cracks, and mostly on
steep hillsides, creating hazardous road conditions for res-
idents;

WHEREAS, continuing to delay maintenance and
repair of Larkspur’s local streets and roads will increase
costs in the long-run;

WHEREAS, it is fiscally responsible to address street
and road needs now, before they become more expensive
in the future;

WHEREAS, essential service needs include clearing
hazardous and flammable brush to prevent fires and im-
prove emergency vehicle access so Larkspur is prepared
for natural disasters, such as fires, floods and earthquakes;

WHEREAS, additional funds are needed to address
Larkspur’s essential community service needs and priori-
ties including repairing deteriorating streets, roads and
potholes, preparing Larkspur for natural disasters, and pre-
serving public safety services such as fire and police pro-
tection and 9-1-1 emergency medical response times; and

WHEREAS, a local funding measure would maintain
our essential city services and address community priori-
ties by creating a local source of revenue that cannot be
taken by Sacramento.

NOW THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY
OF LARKSPUR DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOL-
LOWS:

Section 1. Recitals. The People of Larkspur find that
the above Recitals are true and correct and
are incorporated herein by reference.

Section 2. Amendment of Larkspur Municipal Code to
Add Chapter 3.24. Title 3 of the Larkspur
Municipal Code is hereby amended by
adding a new Chapter 3.24, which shall read
as follows:

3.24.010 Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the Larkspur Trans-
actions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Larkspur
hereinafter shall be called “City.” This Ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.24.020 Operative Date.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calen-

dar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of this Ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

3.24.030 Purpose.

This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions here-
of be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accor-
dance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Rev-
enue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that
can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as prac-
ticable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures fol-
lowed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provi-
sions of this ordinance.

3.24.040 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with
the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this trans-
actions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equali-
zation prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execu-
tion of such a contract.

3.24.050 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property
at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of .5% of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.24.060 Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retail-

er or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

In the event a retailer has no permanent place of busi-
ness in the State or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consum-
mated shall be determined under rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

3.24.070 Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal proper-
ty purchased from any retailer on and after the operative
date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consump-
tion in said territory at the rate of .5% of the sales price of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.24.080 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

3.24.090. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or re-
ferred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall
be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not
be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the
State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Trea-
sury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action
to be taken by or against this City or any agency,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in per-
forming the functions incident to the administration
or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior bound-
aries of the State of California, where the result of
the substitution would be to:

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect
to certain sales, storage, use or other consump-
tion of tangible personal property which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the pro-
visions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, or;

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, stor-
age, use or other consumption of tangible per-
sonal property which would not be subject to tax
by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word
“State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this
State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase
in Section 6203.

3.24.100 Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an addi-
tional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
Ordinance.

3.24.110 Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax
or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel
or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws
of this State, the United States, or any foreign gov-
ernment.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which
is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to
a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point.
For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a
point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels regis-
tered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registra-
tion to an out-of-City address and by a declara-
tion under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or
her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by regis-
tration to a place of business out-of-City and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from
that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller

is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the oper-
ative date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, the sale or lease of tangible personal prop-
erty shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to
a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the uncondi-
tional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by
this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in
this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been
subject to a transactions tax under any state-admin-
istered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
for hire or compensation under a certificate of pub-
lic convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1
of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the proper-
ty for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to ter-
minate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or
not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships
or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving
the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of

business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, sub-
sidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall
also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reim-
bursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage,
use or other consumption of which is subject to the use
tax.

3.24.120 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
Ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
Ordinance.

3.24.130 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equi-
table process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or the City, or against any
officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the col-
lection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount
of tax required to be collected.

3.24.140. Annual Audit; Citizens’ Oversight.

A.	By no later than December 31 of each year after the
operative date, the City’s independent auditors shall com-
plete a report reviewing the collection, management and
expenditure of revenue from the tax authorized by this
Chapter. The auditors’ report shall be a public document.

B.	There shall be a committee consisting of no fewer
than five members of the public to review and report on
the receipt of revenue and expenditure of funds from the
tax authorized by this Chapter.

The committee shall review the auditors’ report, for
each year in which the auditors prepare such a report, eval-
uate the projects and services provided with revenue from
the tax, and make recommendations to the City Council
regarding priorities for expenditures of revenue from the
tax authorized by this Chapter for the following budget
year. The City Council shall consider the committee’s rec-
ommendations as part of its budget deliberations.

C.	By December 31, 2013, the City Council shall
adopt a resolution establishing the composition of the
committee required by subsection B, setting the terms of
office of the committee members, and defining the scope
of the committee’s responsibilities, which at a minimum
shall include reviewing the annual auditor’s report and
making recommendations to the City Council for use of
revenue from the tax authorized by this Chapter. The City
Council shall appoint all members of the committee by
January 31, 2014. Thereafter, appointment of committee
members and filling vacancies shall be governed by the
resolution required by this subsection.

3.24.150 Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Chapter
shall expire on the 5th anniversary of the last day of the
calendar quarter preceding the operative date.

Section 3. Compliance with the California Environ-
mental Quality Act. The approval of this
Ordinance is exempt from the California En-
vironmental Quality Act (Public Resources
Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal.
Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guide-
lines”). The transactions and use tax imposed
by the adoption of this Ordinance is general
tax that can be used for any legitimate gov-
ernmental purpose; it is not a commitment to
any particular action. As such, under CEQA
Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not
a project within the meaning of CEQA be-
cause it creates a government funding mech-
anism that does not involve any commitment
to any specific project that may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. If revenue from the tax were
used for a purpose that would have either
such effect, the city would undertake the
required CEQA review for that particular
project. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA
Guidelines section 15060 CEQA analysis is
not required.

Section 4. Severability. If any provision of this Ordi-
nance or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder
of the Ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.

Section 5. Effective Date and Publication. This Ordi-
nance relates to the levying and collecting of
the City transactions and use taxes and shall
take effect immediately.

IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the foregoing Ordi-
nance was approved by the following vote of the People of
the City of Larkspur on November 5,2013:

YESES:

NOES:

IT IS HEREBY FURTHER CERTIFIED that the fore
going Ordinance was adopted by Declaration of the
November 5,2013 election results by the City Council of

the City of Larkspur on________________,	2013,	by

the following vote, to wit:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBER
NOES:	COUNCILMEMBER
ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBER
ABSTAIN:	COUNCILMEMBER
ATTEST:	
City Clerk	

LKC-6