Voter Information Guide

and
Sample Ballot

City of Rialto
Special Municipal Election
Tuesday, March 5,2013

Elections Office of the Registrar of Voters
777 East Rialto Ave. San Bernardino, CA 92415-0770

www.sbcountyelections.com

Guia de informacion	el votante

en espahol	aden

SAMPLE BALLOT  City of Rialto  Special Municipal Election March 5, 2013		BOLETA EJEMPLAR  Ciudad de Rialto  Elecciones Municipales Especiales 5 de marzo de 2013	
INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:	EXAMPLE / EJEMPLO:		INSTRUCCIONES PARA LOS VOTANTES:
1.	Use a BLACK or BLUE pen.  2.	To vote, complete the broken arrow ^ ^ pointing to your choice with a single line like this:  WARNING:  Do not circle, cross out or erase choices, or make other marks on your ballot. If you make a mistake, obtain a replacement ballot.		%	1.	Use una pluma de tinta NEGRA o AZUL.  2.	Para votar, una la flecha incompleta ^ ^ que apunte hacia su eleccidn con una sola llnea, de este modo: ^^  ADVERTENCIA:  No encierre en un circulo, tache ni borre sus elecciones, ni haga otras marcas en la boleta. Si comete un error, consiga una boleta nueva.
MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS  Medida Sometida a los Votantes			
CITY OF RIALTO  Ciudad de Rialto			
MEASURE W Medida W			
Shall the Ordinance to Continue the Utility User Tax for five years be Adopted?  cDebe adoptarse la ordenanza mediante la cual se pretende dar continuidad al Impuesto al Consumidor de Servicios Publicos per cinco anos?			
YES / SI	*  A		
NO/ NO	t  A		

N 0001

N SB 002-006

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W

This Impartial Analysis for Measure W has been prepared by the City
Attorney pursuant to Section 9280 of the Elections Code of the State of
California.

This measure will extend the Utility User Tax for five (5) additional years.

The Utility User Tax is a tax on utility charges to Rialto businesses and residents except
senior citizens.

Unless extended by this measure, the Utility User Tax will expire on June 30, 2013.

In the 2013/14 fiscal year, the City of Rialto will receive $49.3 million in revenue from all
sources including revenues from property taxes, sales taxes and the Utility User Tax. By
itself, the Utility User Tax will generate $11.2 Million. The Utility User Tax alone accounts
for twenty-four percent (24%) of all City revenues.

This measure is on the ballot because the City of Rialto has determined that the loss of
$11 Million in revenues will require very large reductions in all service levels including
police and fire services.

The People of City of Rialto have the exclusive authority to extend the Utility User Tax
under Proposition 218, which was adopted as a state ballot measure in 1996. Therefore,
the Rialto City Council does not have the authority to extend this tax.

This measure gives the People of the City of Rialto the opportunity to maintain existing
service levels for all of its citizens. The effects on Rialto’s Utility User Tax ordinances are
as follows:

•	Section 3.16.230 will be amended to extend the Utility User Tax to June 30,
2018.

•	The rate will remain at eight percent (8%).

•	Senior citizens will continue to be exempted from paying this tax on their
utility charges.

This impartial analysis has been prepared by Jimmy L. Gutierrez, Rialto City Attorney,
pursuant to Elections Code Section 9280.

s/Jimmy L. Gutierrez

PR-7023-1

N SB 002-008

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

This Argument in Favor of Measure W was submitted pursuant to Section
9282 of the Elections Code of the State of California. It is the opinion of
the author(s), and has been printed exactly as submitted.

The Utility User Tax - which voters approved in 2003 and extended in 2008 - is an
essential component of the City’s operating budget, generating $11 million per year or
22 percent of total General Fund revenues. The UUT replaced the PERS property tax
which was previously levied on all property owners. The City has used UUT revenue
to increase services, including public safety, code enforcement, street maintenance,
senior center operation and more. As in most cities, public safety expenditures
represent approximately 70% of general fund expenditures and budget reductions
inevitably impact these services.

Approval of Measure W maintains the tax at its current 8 percent rate for the next five
years, at which point it sunsets. It is not a new or an additional tax.

Extending the UUT is necessary to preserve critical City services. Since 2007, general
fund revenues have declined by nearly $8.5 million, due to the economic downturn.
Even with a UUT extension, the City faces a projected 2014 budget deficit of $7.6
million. This will require difficult choices, including salary/benefit concessions for City
employees, possible layoffs, and service reductions.

If the UUT is not extended, projected City revenue would be one-third less than in
2007. This would require significant service reductions, including:

•	Loss of up to 20 positions in the police department.

•	Reduction in paramedic staffing, fire prevention programs and the Arson
and Swat medic program.

•	Closure of the Las Colinas fire station.

•	Reductions in street sweeping, graffiti abatement, park maintenance and
sidewalk repair.

•	Reduction or elimination of services at the pool, senior center and
community center.

•	Establishment of usage fees for sports fields.

•	Reduction of two code enforcement officer and/or support staff, and three
to five public works positions.

Your yes vote will help the City maintain essential services to the community.

s/ Linda A. Chapman, Chair for Measure W Committee
si Karen Lozano, City Commissioner
s/Michael E. Story, City Administrator
s/ Lelia D. Robertson, Mayor
s/ Dana B Rhodes, Resident

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W

No Argument Against Measure W was filed.