TOWN OF CORTE MADERA MEASURE B

MEASURE H! The Town of YES

Corte Madera Essential General __________

Services Measure. To maintain

essential Town services including but not |____

limited to: current levels of local fire prevention, flood
control, streets and potholes, disaster preparedness,
safe routes to schools, and senior and youth programs,
shall the Town enact a half-cent sales tax for 6 years,
requiring a citizen’s oversight committee review and
annual examination to ensure funds are spent locally as
promised for the benefit of Corte Madera residents?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE B

PROPOSED ORDINANCE ENACTING A LOCAL
TRANSACTION AND USE TAX OF ONE-HALF OF
ONE PERCENT (.5%) FOR SIX YEARS

If adopted by a majority of the voters, this initiative mea-
sure will enact legislation (an ordinance) imposing a local
transaction and use tax (sales tax) for the purpose of
increasing revenues to assist the Town in maintaining its
financial viability and maintaining staffing and levels of
service within the Town.

The ordinance, if enacted, would increase the sales tax rate
by one-half of one percent (.5%) on and after the effective
date of the ordinance and would terminate in six (6) years.
The funds derived from the sales tax would be placed in the
General Fund and may be used for a variety of purposes,
including but not limited to maintaining local levels of fire
prevention, flood control and senior and youth programs.
The tax is to be imposed on retailers for the selling of tan-
gible personal property at retail and on the storage, use or
other consumption in the Town of tangible personal prop-
erty purchased from any retailer. The proposed ordinance
includes certain exemptions and exclusions from the com-
putation of the amount of the transactions and use tax on
certain transactions, including those exemptions already
applicable under State law.

The ordinance requires the Town Council to appoint a cit-
izen’s oversight committee consisting of members of the
public to review and annually report on the receipt of rev-
enue and expenditure of funds from the tax. The commit-
tee’s report and recommendations must be a matter of pub-
lic record.

Since the ordinance does not limit the Town’s use of the
revenue from the tax it is a general tax. State law autho-
rizes the Town to implement this ordinance upon its
approval by a simple majority of voters who vote on the
measure.

s/JEFFREY A. WALTER
Town Attorney
Town of Corte Madera
The above statement is an impartial analysis of the
proposed ordinance. If you desire a copy of the ordi-
nance, please call the elections official’s office at 415
927-5085 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Voting YES on B protects our safety and quality of life in
Corte Madera WITHOUT increasing property taxes.

THE ISSUE

We are fortunate to live in a safe community with great
schools, outstanding local services, beautiful surroundings
and a high quality of life.

Corte Madera relies on funding from sales taxes paid by
anyone who shops here. The recession caused a sharp de-
crease in sales tax funding used for emergency response,
road repair, flood control and other services.

To reduce costs while preserving vital services, the Town
cut over 30% of staff, scaled back employee retirement/
health benefits, consolidated departments and shared ser-
vices with neighboring cities. Repair and maintenance of
roads, flood control infrastructure, parks/community facil-
ities as well as replacement of equipment/vehicles for fire-
fighters/paramedics have been deferred or eliminated.
Town reserves are now minimal, leaving Corte Madera
vulnerable in an earthquake or disaster.

THE SOLUTION: MEASURE B
Voting YES on B will:

•	Approve a temporary half-cent sales tax increase (50
cents on a $100 purchase)

•	Provide locally-controlled funding for local needs in
Corte Madera - no funds can be taken by the State

•	Exempt essential purchases like groceries and medi-
cine

•	Keep Corte Madera’s sales tax rate at or below pro-
posed rates in neighboring cities

•	Mandate strict fiscal accountability including an Inde-
pendent Citizens’ Oversight Committee and annual
audits

•	Require a strict 6-vear time limit that cannot be extend-
ed without voter approval

Unlike a property tax that places the entire burden on
Corte Madera residents. Measure B ensures that anyone
who comes to Corte Madera to shop helps pay for local
roads and emergency services.

Measure B will protect our top priorities:

•	Firefighting/fire prevention

•	Rapid emergency medical response times

•	Services for children, families and seniors

•	Storm drains/flood control

•	Road maintenance

•	Earthquake/disaster preparedness

Join Corte Madera’s most respected leaders and vote YES
on B.

s/DIANE FURST
Mayor
s/BOB RAVASIO
Town Council Member

s/JANA HAEHL
Director, Corte Madera Community Foundation,
former Mayor and Corte Madera Resident for 50 years
s/JOHN H. HOWARD
Citizen of the Year and Member,

Twin Cities Disaster Preparedness Committee
s/BECKY REED
Former Citizen of the Year,

Past President of Corte Madera Women’s Club and
Director, Corte Madera Community Foundation

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B
WAS SUBMITTED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

RESOLUTION NO. 28/2013
A RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF
THE TOWN OF CORTE MADERA CALLING FOR
AN ELECTION AND ORDERING THE SUBMIS-
SION OF AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING A TRANS-
ACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION FOR
SIX (6) YEARS, TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF
THE TOWN, AND REQUESTING THAT THE
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF
MARIN CONSOLIDATE THE ELECTION WITH
THE GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
NOVEMBER 5,2013 AND ELECTION SERVICES
BE PROVIDED BY THE MARIN COUNTY ELEC-
TIONS DEPARTMENT AND SETTING THE BAL-
LOT LANGUAGE

WHEREAS, the Town of Corte Madera continues to face
increased demand for, and expenses in providing, essential
Town services and facilities that its residents rely on, such
as:

•	Fire prevention,

•	Flood control,

•	Streets and potholes,

•	Disaster preparedness,

•	Safe routes to schools,

•	Senior and youth programs; and

WHEREAS, without additional revenue, the Town of
Corte Madera will be hampered in providing these and
other essential Town services; and

WHEREAS, Section 7285.9 of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code authorizes the Town to levy, increase
or extend a transactions and use tax for general purposes
at a rate of 0.125 percent, or a multiple thereof, subject to
approval by a two-thirds vote of all of the members of the
Town Council and by a majority vote of the qualified vot-
ers of the Town voting in an election on the issue; and

WHEREAS, Article XIIIC, section 2 (b) of the California
Constitution requires that an election be held when a town
council seeks voter approval of a new general tax and that
said election be consolidated with a regularly scheduled
general election for members of the Town Council; and

WHEREAS, a regularly scheduled general election for
members of the Town Council has been established for the
date of November 5,2013; and

WHEREAS, this Resolution approves and proposes to the
electorate the adoption of a tax measure which, if ap-
proved, would be imposed on retail transactions involving
sale and use of personal property. The tax rate would be
one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the
property. The tax revenue would be collected by the State
Board of Equalization and remitted to the Town. The tax
would be in effect for 6 years, and would then expire auto-
matically, unless extended by the voters; and

WHEREAS, based on all of the information presented at
the meetings and considering the fiscal condition of the

CMB-2

Town and the proposed sales tax measure, both written
and oral, including the staff reports, minutes, and other rel-
evant materials, the Town Council finds that under CEQA
Guidelines 15060(c)(2)&(3) and 15378 (b)(2) & (4), this
Resolution is exempt from the California Environmental
Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 seq.,
“CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 seq., “CEQA
Guidelines”). The transactions and use tax to be submitted
to the voters is a general tax that can be used for any legit-
imate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to
any particular action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines
Section 15060(c)(2) the submission of the sales tax mea-
sure to the voters will not result in a direct or reasonably
foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment.
The proceeds of the measure are anticipated to assist the
Town with retaining existing governmental functions and
services to the public. Therefore, Pursuant to CEQA
Guidelines section 15378(b)(2), the sales tax measure is
not a project pursuant to CEQA. In addition. Pursuant to
CEQA Guidelines section 15060 (c)(3) and 15378(b)(4),
the tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA
because it creates a government funding mechanism that
does not involve any commitment to any specific project
that may result in a potentially significant physical impact
on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for
a purpose that would have either such effect, the Town
would undertake the required CEQA review for that par-
ticular project.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Town
Council of the Town of Corte Madera that:

SECTION 1. Pursuant to its right, power and author-
ity under the laws of the State of California and the Town
of Corte Madera Municipal Code, the Town of Corte
Madera hereby calls an election at which it shall submit to
the qualified voters of the Town, a measure that, if
approved, would adopt a temporary general sales tax, as
authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9.
This measure shall be designated by letter by the Marin
County Elections Department. Pursuant to Elections Code
Section 10400 et seq., the election for this measure shall
be consolidated with the previously established election to
be conducted on November 5,2013.

SECTION 2. The measure (the Ordinance) that shall
appear on the ballot is attached hereto as Exhibit A, is
incorporated by this reference and shall be printed in the
voter pamphlet. The Town Council hereby approves the
ordinance, the form thereof, and its submission to the vot-
ers of the Town at the November 5, 2013 election. The
entire text of the ordinance, attached hereto as Exhibit A,
shall be made available to the public upon request. The
ordinance specifies that the rate of the sales tax shall be
one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold
at retail in the Town; it specifies that the rate of the use tax
shall be one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price
of tangible personal property stored, used or otherwise
consumed in the Town. The State Board of Equalization
shall collect the tax from retailers subject to the tax and
remit the funds to the Town. The proposed measure is a

general tax as defined in Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution and shall not take effect unless and until
approved by a vote of at least a majority of the voters vot-
ing on the question at the election.

SECTION 3. The proposed sales tax ordinance shall
be submitted to the voters on the ballot in the form of the
following question:

TOWN OF CORTE MADERA	
The Town of Corte Madera Essential General Services Measure. To maintain essential Town services including but not limited to: current levels of local fire pre- vention, flood control, streets and potho preparedness, safe routes to schools, anc youth programs, shall the Town enact a he tax for 6 years, requiring a citizen’s overs tee review and annual examination to ensi spent locally as promised for the bene Madera residents?	YES  NO  leSy disaster I senior and df-cent sales ight commit- ire funds are fit of Corte

SECTION 4. In all particulars not recited in this Res-
olution, the election shall be held and conducted as pro-
vided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 5. The Town Attorney is hereby directed to
prepare an impartial analysis of the measure pursuant to
Elections Code Section 9280.

SECTION 6. The Town Council authorizes the indi-
viduals identified in section 8, below, to file written argu-
ments in favor of the measure not exceeding 300 words,
accompanied by the printed names and signatures of the
authors submitting it, in accordance with Article 4, Chap-
ter 3, Division 9 of the Elections Code of the State of
California. The arguments may be changed or withdrawn
until and including the date fixed by the Town Clerk after
which no arguments for or against the Town measure may
be submitted to the Town Clerk.

SECTION 7. The arguments shall be filed with the
Town Clerk, signed, with the printed names and signatures
of the authors submitting it, or if submitted on behalf of an
organization, the name of the organization, and the print-
ed name and signature of at least one of its principal offi-
cers who is the author of the argument. The argument shall
be accompanied by the Form of Statement To Be Filed by
Authors of Arguments.

SECTION 8. The deadline for filing arguments for
and against the ballot measure with the Town Clerk shall
be August 19,2013, and the argument shall not exceed 300
words in length. Rebuttal arguments shall be filed with the
Town Clerk by August 26,2013 and shall not exceed 250
words in length. Mayor Furst and Councilmember Rava-
sio are hereby authorized to prepare a written argument in
support of the proposed ordinance, not to exceed 300
words, on behalf of the Town Council. Mayor Furst and
Councilmember Ravasio are authorized to select two
Councilmembers (including themselves) and three com-
munity members to sign the argument. In no case shall
more than five persons sign the argument, at least one of
whom must be a Councilmember. Pursuant to Section

9285 of the California Elections Code, when the Town
Clerk has selected the arguments for and against the mea-
sure, which will be printed and distributed to the voters,
the Town Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor
of the measure to the authors of the argument against, and
copies of the argument against to the authors of the argu-
ment in favor. The Town Council hereby adopts Section
9285(a) of the California Elections Code.

SECTION 9. The same persons authorized in Section
8 above to prepare and sign the direct argument in favor of
the proposed ordinance shall be authorized to prepare and
sign the rebuttal argument. Rebuttal arguments shall be
printed in the same manner as the direct arguments. Each
rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct
argument, which it seeks to rebut.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED
AS FOLLOWS:

1.	The Board of Supervisors of the County of Marin is
hereby requested to consolidate the said general elec-
tion for this measure with the previously established
general municipal election on Tuesday, November 5,
2013, and provide services for the general election on
said measure, and to provide that, within the Town of
Corte Madera, the election precincts, polling places,
and voting booths shall in every case be the same and
there shall be one set of election officers in each of said
precincts, and to further provide that said measure
hereinabove set forth shall be set forth in the ballots to
be used at said election insofar as the same is held
within the Town of Corte Madera.

2.	The Board of Supervisors of Marin County is hereby
further authorized to canvass, or caused to be can-
vassed, as provided by law, the returns of said ballot
measure election with respect to the votes cast on such
proposition and to certify such canvass of votes to the
Town Council.

3.	The Town Clerk of the Town of Corte Madera is here-
by authorized and directed to certify to the due adop-
tion of this Resolution and to transmit a copy thereof
so certified to the Board of Supervisors of said County
and to file a copy hereof so certified with the Registrar
of the County of Marin.

4.	The Town Clerk shall certify to the passage and adop-
tion of this Resolution and enter it into the book of
original Resolutions, and to take other appropriate
actions necessary to ensure the placement of said tax
measure before the voters of the Town of Corte Madera
at said General Election.

5.	In accordance with Section 12111 of the Elections
Code and Section 6061 of the Government Code, the
City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause
notice of the measure to be published once in the Marin
Independent Journal, a newspaper of general circula-
tion, printed, published, and circulated in the Town of
Corte Madera and hereby designated for that purpose
by the Town Council of Corte Madera. The Town Clerk
may request that the County of Marin Elections De-
partment prepare and publish the required notice.

6.	The Town Manager is hereby authorized and directed
to expend the necessary funds to pay for the Town’s
cost of placing the measure on the election ballot.

The foregoing Resolution was duly passed and adopted at
a regular meeting of the Town Council of the Town of
Corte Madera held in said Town on the 6th day of August,
2013, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:	Bailey,	Condon, Lappert, Ravasio and Furst

NOES:	None

ABSENT: None

s/DIANE FURST
Mayor

Attest:

s/LISA HARPER
Interim Town Clerk

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO. 934

AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF
CORTE MADERA IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE TOWN
OF CORTE MADERA:

SECTION 1: Chapter 3.52 “Transactions and Use Tax”
shall be added to the Corte Madera Municipal Code and
shall read as follows:

Section 3.52.010 TITLE. This ordinance shall be
known as the Town of Corte Madera Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance. The town of Corte Madera hereinafter
shall be called “Town.” This ordinance shall be applicable
in the incorporated territory of the Town.

Section 3.52.020 OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative
Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter com-
mencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this
ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth
below.

Section 3.52.030 PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopt-
ed to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accor-
dance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the Town to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure hereof that can

be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as prac-
ticable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures fol-
lowed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provi-
sions of this ordinance.

Section 3.52.040 CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior
to the operative date, the Town shall contract with the
State Board of Equalization to perform all functions inci-
dent to the administration and operation of this transac-
tions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Town
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equali-
zation prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execu-
tion of such a contract.

Section 3.52.050 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For
the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail,
a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorpo-
rated territory of the Town at the rate of 0.5% of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible per-
sonal property sold at retail in said territory on and after
the operative date of this ordinance. The tax imposed here-
by shall be in addition to the tax imposed pursuant to
Chapter 3.24 of the Corte Madera Municipal Code.

Section 3.52.060 PLACE OF SALE. For the pur-
poses of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at
the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible per-
sonal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent
to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regard-
less of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be deter-
mined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3.52.070 USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is
hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption
in the Town of tangible personal property purchased from
any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordi-
nance for storage, use or other consumption in said terri-
tory at the rate of 0.5% of the sales price of the property.
The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of
the place to which delivery is made. The tax imposed here-
by shall be in addition to the tax imposed pursuant to
Chapter 3.24 of the Corte Madera Municipal Code.

Section 3.52.080 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF
STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this ordi-
nance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commenc-
ing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.52.090 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION
OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.
In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this Town
shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title
of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this Town or any agency,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessar-
ily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries
of the State of California, where the result of the substitu-
tion would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not otherwise
be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible per-
sonal property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “Town” shall be substituted for the
word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in
this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3.52.100 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a
seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section
6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 3.52.110 EXEMPTIONS AND EXC1 JSTONS.

A.There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax
or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the

amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the Town
which is shipped to a point outside the Town, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retail-
er or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the Town shall
be satisfied.

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than com-
mercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocu-
mented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to
an out-of-Town address and by a declaration under penalty
of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is,
in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-Town and decla-
ration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is
a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time
for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and
(4) of this section (B), the sale or lease of tangible person-
al property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to
a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed
by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in
this Town of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which
have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products pur-
chased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire
or compensation under a certificate of public convenience

and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any
right or power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such prop-
erty for any period of time for which the lessee is obligat-
ed to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and
(4) of this section (C), storage, use, or other consumption,
or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be oblig-
ated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the uncon-
ditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (C)(7), a
retailer engaged in business in the Town shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the Town or participates within the Town in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited
to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indi-
rectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the Town or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the Town under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the Town”
shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented ves-
sels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Sec-
tion 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who regis-
ters or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in Town.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordi-
nance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant
to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property
the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject
to the use tax.

Section 3.52.120 AMENDMENTS. All amendments
subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating
to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall

CMB-6

automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 3.52.130 CITIZENS OVF.RSIGHT COM-
MITTEE. Prior to the operative date, the Town Council
shall (a) adopt a resolution establishing the composition of
a committee of no more than five (5) residents of the Town
to review and annually report on the revenue and expendi-
ture of the funds from the tax adopted by this ordinance,
(b) define the scope of the committee’s responsibilities,
and (c) appoint at least a quorum of the members of the
committee. Town employees, consultants, or vendors are
expressly precluded from serving as members of the com-
mittee. The committee’s reports shall be presented to the
Council and made available to the public.

Section 3.52.140 ENJOINING COFFFCTION FOR-
BIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal
or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or pro-
ceeding in any court against the State or the Town, or
against any officer of the State or the Town, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax
or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 3.52.150 TERMINATION DATE. The au-
thority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall
expire six (6) years after the operative date.

SECTION 2. SEVER ART! JTY. If any provision of
this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordi-
nance and the application of such provision to other per-
sons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance re-
lates to the levying and collecting of the Town transactions
and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

THE FOREGOING ORDINANCE was adopted by
declaration of the vote by the Corte Madera Town Council

on the__day of_____________,	2013	at	a	regular	meeting

of the Corte Madera Town Council by the following vote:
AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

s/DIANE FURST
Mayor

ATTEST:
s/LISA HARPER
Interim Town Clerk

CMB-7