TAX RATE STATEMENT
MEASURE W
CITY OF WATERFORD

An election will be held in the County of Stanislaus on November 5, 2013 to authorize the City of Waterford to
levy a Special Tax every year within the City of Waterford Community Facilities District No. 2013-1 (Public
Services) (“CFD No. 2013-1"). A Special Tax as hereinafter defined shall be levied on each Assessor's Parcel of
Taxable Property within the and collected each Fiscal Year commencing in Fiscal Year 2014-2015 in an amount
determined by the City Council through the application of the appropriate Special Tax for Taxable Property as
described below. All of the real property in CFD No. 2013-1, unless exempted by law or by the provisions
hereof, shall be taxed for purposes of CFD No. 2013-1, to the extent and in the manner herein provided.

A. ASSIGNMENT TO LAND USE CATEGORIES

On, or around, July 1 of each Fiscal Year, all Assessor’s Parcels will be classified as Exempt or Taxable
Property. Next, all Assessor’s Parcels of Taxable Property within CFD No. 2013-1 shall be classified as
Residential Property, Non-Residential Property, Rural Farm & Agricultural Property or Undeveloped
Property, and shall be subject to the levy of annual Special Taxes determined pursuant to Sections C and
D below.

C.	MAXIMUM ANNUAL SPECIAL TAX RATE

The Maximum Annual Special Tax for each Assessor’s Parcel of Taxable Property shall be assigned
according to the table below:

Property Land Use	2014-2015 Maximum Special Tax Amount
Residential Property	$50.00 per Residential Unit
Non-Residential Property	$120.00 per Parcel
Rural, Farm & Agricultural Property	$60.00 per Parcel
Undeveloped Property	$30.00 per Parcel

On July 1 of each Fiscal Year, commencing on July 1, 2015, the Maximum Annual Special Tax set forth in
the table above shall increase by the Annual Inflation Factor.

D.	METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT OF THE SPECIAL TAX

Commencing with Fiscal Year 2014-2015 and for each subsequent Fiscal Year, the CFD Administrator
shall determine the Special Tax Requirement and shall levy the Special Tax until the amount of Special
Taxes equals the Special Tax Requirement.

The Special Tax shall be levied proportionately on each Assessor's Parcel of Taxable Property at a rate
up to 100% of the applicable Maximum Annual Special Tax to satisfy the Special Tax Requirement.

Notwithstanding the above, under no circumstances will the Special Tax levied against any Assessor’s
Parcel of Residential Property be increased by more than ten percent (10%) above what it would have
been levied had there been no delinquencies.

E.	EXEMPTIONS

The CFD Administrator shall classify the following as Exempt Property: (i) Public Property; (ii) Open
Space Property; (iii) Property for which the County deems tax exempt; and (iv) Assessor’s Parcels with 1

1

public or utility easements making impractical their utilization for any use other than the purposes set forth
in the easement.

If the use of an Assessor's Parcel of Exempt Property changes so that such Assessor's Parcel is no
longer classified as one of the uses set forth above that would make such Assessor's Parcel eligible to be
classified as Exempt Property, such Assessor's Parcel shall cease to be classified as Exempt Property
and shall be deemed to be Taxable Property.

F.	REVIEW/APPEAL COMMITTEE

Any landowner or resident who feels that the amount of the Special Tax levied on their Assessor’s Parcel
is in error shall first consult with the CFD Administrator regarding such error. If following such consultation,
the CFD Administrator determines that an error has occurred; the CFD Administrator may amend the
amount of the Special Tax levied on such Assessor’s Parcel. If following such consultation and action (if
any by the CFD Administrator), the landowner or resident believes such error still exists, such person may
file a written notice with the City appealing the amount of the Special Tax levied on such Assessor's
Parcel. Upon the receipt of any such notice, the City shall establish as part of the proceedings and
administration of CFD No. 2013-1 a special three-member review/appeal committee. The review/appeal
committee may establish such procedures, as it deems necessary to undertake the review of any such
appeal. The review/appeal committee shall interpret this Rate and Method of Apportionment and make
determinations relative to the annual administration of the Special Tax and any landowner or resident
appeals, as herein specified. The decision of the review/appeal committee shall be final and binding as to
all persons.

G.	MANNER OF COLLECTION

The annual Special Tax shall be collected in the same manner and at the same time as ordinary ad
valorem property taxes; provided, however, that CFD No. 2013-1, may directly bill the Special Tax, and
may collect Special Taxes at a different time or in a different manner as necessary to meet its financial
obligations.

H.	PREPAYMENT OF SPECIAL TAX

The Special Tax may not be prepaid.

I.	TERM OF SPECIAL TAX

The Special Tax shall be levied, commencing in Fiscal Year 2014-2015, as long as necessary to satisfy
the Special Tax Requirement.

Dated: June 12, 2013

CORBETT J. BROWNING,

City Attorney, City of Waterford

2

. : :

■ | B





OFFICIAL BALLOT - CONSOLIDATED DISTRICT ELECTION
BOLETA OFICIAL - ELECCION CONSOUDADA DEL DISTRITO

BT: 57

STANISLAUS COUNTY

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

1.	To vote, BLACKEN the oval (•) to the left
of any candidate or to the left of the word
"YES or the word "NO". Do not vote for more
than the authorized number of candidates.

2.	Use only a blue or black pen or pencil to
vote.

3.	To cast a write-in vote, write the name of
the qualified candidate in the space provided
AND blacken the oval (•) next to your
choice.

4.	Marking the ballot outside of the
designated space to vote for a candidate or
measure may compromise the secrecy of the
ballot.

5.	If you make a mistake, ask for a new ballot.

INSTRUCCIONES A LOS
VOTANTES:

1.	Para votar LLENE el ovate (m) a la
izquierda de cualquier candidato o a la
Izquierda de la palabra 'ST o la palabra "NO".
No vote por mas de el numero autorizado de
candidates.

2.	Use solamente una pluma o un lapiz con la
linta negra o azul.

3.	Para votar por un candidato anadido,
escribe el nombre del candidate calificado en
el espacio proveido y llene el ovalo (•) a/
lado de su opcion.

4.	Marcando la boleta afuera del espacio
designada para votar por un candidato or
meotda puede comptometer la secrecia de la
boleta.

5.	Si usted comete un error, pida una nueva
boleta.

8 ffili ! STATE OF CALIFORNIA	c m I TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013 ' n
	
CITY / CIUDAD	MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS/

Member, City Council - Short Term Miembro, Concejo Municipal ■ Corto Plazo  Vote for ONE Vote por UNO	
	JOSHUA WHITFIELD  Public Relations Consultant Asesor de Relaciones Publicas
CD	KEITH M. SELF  Retired Railroad Worker Trabajador Ferroviario Jubilado
o	
	

CONTINUE VOTING
IN NEXT COLUMN/
CONTINUE VOTANDO
EN LA COLUMUNA SIGUIENTE

STANISLAUS - SO

CITY OF WATERFORD
CIUDAD DE WATERFORD

CONTINUE VOTING
IN NEXT COLUMN /
CONTINUE VOTANDO
EN LA COLUMUNA SIGUIENTE

________\

1-------:/

A LOS VOTANTES

CIVt I CIUDAD

CITY OF WATERFORD
CIUDAD DE WATERFORD

w

,	Shall the City

CD	Yes I Si	of Waterford be

allowed to levy a

___	special tax every

CD	No/A/o	year within

Community
Facilities District
No. 2013-1 (Public Services) to pay for
landscape and lighting services and replace
the Lighting and Landscaping Districts which
are running deficits, according to the rates
established by the City Council in Resolution
of Formation, beginning July 1, 2014, and
shall the City be authorized to spend for these
services ail that it receives?

<jSe debe permitir que la ciudad de Waterford
aplique un impuesto especial cada ario dentro
del Distrito de Instalaciones Comunitarias N.°
2013-1 (servicios pubiicos) para pagar los
servicios de alumbrado y paisajismo y
reemplazar a los Distritos de Alumbrado y
Paisajismo que estan generando un deficit,
segun las tasas establecidas por el
ayuntamiento en la resolucion de formacion,
que entrara en vigencia el V de julio de
2014? iSe debe autorizar a la ciudad para
que invierta en estos servicios todo el dmero
que recibe?

END OF BALLOT/
FIN DE BOLETA

ST: 57



Typ:Q1 Seq:0057 Spl:01

FACSIMILE DE BOLETA

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY FOR MEASURE W
CITY OF WATERFORD

Pursuant to Government Code Section 53311, and subsequent
sections, a General Law City may initiate efforts to establish a
Community Facilities District to provide public services, including the
operation, maintenance and administration of services and facilities
related to medians, parkways, landscaping, lighting, signals, and
related accessories and the funding therefore through a special tax
collected in the same manner as an ordinary ad valorem property tax.

Assessments in the existing Districts:

The Lighting Assessment District, formed in 1920, assesses $11.24
to 833 parcels. This district provides street lighting services to the
downtown residential area, and pocket areas around the city. The
Landscape and Lighting Assessment District, formed in 1991, assesses
a total of 1,377 parcels divided into 2 benefit zones, with annual rates
of $52, and $28.52. This district provides for the maintenance and
operation costs of street lighting and landscaping services associated
with medians, selected bicycle/pedestrian parkways, and improved
cul-de-sac areas.

New improvements and cost escalations have left both districts
operating at deficits for years, and both districts would terminate if
Measure W is approved.

Measure “W” Proposed Special Tax Amount:

ANALISIS IMPARCIAL DEL CONSEJERO JURIDICO DE LA
CIUDAD SOBRE LA MEDIDA W
CIUDAD DE WATERFORD

Con forme a la Seccion 53311 y secciones posteriores del Codigo
de Gobierno, un municipio bajo el regimen de ley general del estado
puede comenzar a trabajar para establecer un Distrito de Instalaciones
Comunitarias que permita proporcionar servicios publicos, incluidos el
funcionamiento, el mantenimiento y la administracion de los servicios
y las instalaciones relacionados con las banquinas, las autopistas, el
paisajismo, el alumbrado, las senates y accesos relacionados. Los
fondos deberian recaudarse a partir de un impuesto especial que se
cobraria de la misma forma que un impuesto a la propiedad ad valorem.

Tasaciones en los distritos existentes:

El Distrito de tasacion del alumbrado, formado en 1920, estipulo una
tasa de $11.24 en 833 parcelas. Este distrito proporciona servicios
de alumbrado publico en el area residencial del centro y las areas
pequenas de la ciudad. El Distrito de Tasacion de Alumbrado y
Paisajismo, formado en 1991, taso un total de 1,377 parcelas divididas
en 2 zonas de beneficios, con tasas anuales de $52 y $28.52. Este
distrito esta a cargo de los costos de mantenimiento y funcionamiento
de los servicios de paisajismo y alumbrado publico relacionados con
banquinas, determinados pasajes peatonales o bicisendas y callejones
sin salida mejorados.

Las mejoras y los aumentos en los costos han arrojado deficit en ambos
distritos durante anos, y dichos distritos dejarian de tener vigencia si se
aprueba la Medida W.

Cantidad propuesta del impuesto especial para la Medida “W:

Residential Property
Non-Residential Property
Rural, Farm, & Agricultural Property
Undeveloped Property

$ 60.00 per Residential Unit
$ 120.00 per Parcel
$ 60.00 per Parcel
$ 30.00 per Parcel

The Ballot Measure and Levy, if approved, shall be effective July 1,
2014. Additionally, the above amounts would be subject to an annual
increase, commencing on July 1, 2015, by the Annual Inflation Factor
equal to the annual percentage change in the Consumer Price Index
for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Area calculated in February
of each Fiscal Year.

Measure “W” provides that if the special tax is approved by a two-
thirds (2/3) majority of the qualified voters voting on the issue, there
shall be a continuing lien to secure each levy of the special tax attached
to all non-exempt real property in the District and the services will be
provided by the City, with its own employees or by contract with third
parties, or any combination thereof.

A “yes” vote on Measure “W” would:

8	Allow for the expiration of the 2 current assessment districts,
eliminating the current rate structure

•	Eliminate the current $40,000 yearly deficit incurred upon the
General Fund

•	Eliminate Benefit Zones and apply an overall consistent rate to
eligible parcels

5 Cost $5.00 per month per eligible Residential unit and Rural/
Agricultural property
» Cost $10.00 per month for a commercial property

A “no” vote on Measure “W” would:

•	Allow the districts to operate as they currently are

9	Would prohibit the City from implementing any of the changes
described above

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the
Ballot Measure pursuant to City Council Resolution
2013-55. If you desire a copy of the Resolution or
Measure, piease call the election official’s office at
(209) 874-2328 and a copy will be mailed at no cost
to you.

Propiedades residenciales	$ 60.00 por unidad residencial

Propiedades no residenciales	$ 120.00 por parceia

Propiedades rurales, estancias y propiedades destinadas a la
agricultura	$ 60.00 por parceia

Propiedades sin explotar	$ 30.00 por parceia

Si se aprueban el impuesto y la medida electoral, ambos entraran
en vigencia a partir del 1° de julio de 2014. Ademas, los importes
mencionados anteriormente estaran sujetos a un aumento anual, a partir
del IP de julio de 2015, que se calculara a partir del factor de inflacion
anual y que sera igual al cambio porcentual anual que se apiique sobre
el fndice de precios al consumo en el area de San Francisco-Oakland-
San Jose. Dicho importe se calculara en febrero de cada ejercicio fiscal.

En la Medida “W" se establece que, si el impuesto especial es aprobado
por una mayoria de dos tercios (2/3) de los votantes caiificados que
emitan su voto sobre este tema, se debera contar con un derecho de
retencion constante para asegurar que la ciudad este a cargo del cobro
del impuesto especial que se apiique a todos los bienes inmuebles del
distrito y los servicios, a traves de sus propios empleados o mediante
un contrato con terceros, o cualquier tipo de colaboracion entre ambas
partes.

Un voto positivo para la Medida “W” representaria lo siguiente:

•	Los 2 distritos de tasacion actuates dejarian de tener vigencia y se
eliminarfa la estructura de tasas actuates.

•	Se eliminarfa el deficit anual de $40,000 que actualmente se
solventa con el fondo general.

•	Se eliminarfan las zonas de beneficios y se aplicarfa una tasa
coherente general en las parcelas elegibles.

•	Se aplicarfa una costa de $5.00 por mes en cada unidad residencial
y propiedad rural relacionada con la agricultura.

•	Se aplicarfa una costa de $10.00 por mes en cada propiedad
comercial.

Un voto negative para la Medida “W” representaria lo siguiente:

•	Los distritos seguirfan funcionando como hasta ahora.

•	El gobierno de la ciudad no podria impiementar los cambios
descritos anteriormente.

La declaracion anterior es un analisis imparcial de la
Medida electoral con forme a la Resol ucion 2013-55
del ayuntamiento. Si desea obtener una copia de la
Medida electoral, llame a la oficina del Funcionario
electoral al (209) 874-2328, y se le enviara una copia
sin costo alguno.

/s/ CORBETT J. BROWNING
City Attorney, City of Waterford

/s/ CORBETT J. BROWNING

Consejero jurfdico de la ciudad, Ciudad de Waterford

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

Approving Measure W will form the Community Facility District that will
cover the costs of street lights, traffic signals, and landscaping services
citywide. If approved, Measure W will replace the two existing lighting
and landscaping assessment districts that have been in place since
1920 and 1991. Approving Measure W provides a comprehensive and
fair way to fund our lighting and landscaping services.

The two districts cover most of the lighting and landscaping services in
the city, but the rates established in 1920 for the downtown area, and
1991 for most of the rest of the city, do not cover the actual costs of
services. What else costs the same today as it did in 1920?

Since 1991, and certainly since 1920, the city has added lights, traffic
signals, beautiful parks and walking open space areas. With increased
traffic, and growth, these improvements enhance safety and beautify
the community; they attract businesses and responsible residents; and
provide access to the outdoors and river. With expenses exceeding
the revenues, the General Fund has to make up for these losses and
this takes away funding available for Police Services or a skate park
for instance. Approving Measure W frees up the General Fund for city
priorities.

The existing districts have some property owners paying $11.24 a year,
while another across the street is paying $28.52, and another paying
$52.00. Half the city pays $52 a year and this increase will be less than
a dollar a month. There are other property owners who don’t pay at
all! Approving Measure W will ensure that all the residential property
owners pay the same rate - $60 a year, or $5 a month, and businesses
property owners $120 a year, or $10 a month. Measure W makes the
rates fair for all!

/s/ Charlie Goeken, Mayor
/s/ Cynthia Temple, Eligible Voter
/s/ Debra Turner, Eligible Voter
/s/ Christopher Esther, Eligible Voter

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W
NONE FILED

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W
NONE FILED

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W
NONE FILED

ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA MEDIDA W

Si se aprueba la Medida W, se formara el Distrito de Instalaciones
Comunitarias que se encargara de cubrir los costos del alumbrado
publico, las senates de trafico y los servicios de paisajismo en toda
la ciudad. Ademas, si esta medida se aprueba, reemplazara a los dos
distritos existentes de tasacion de alumbrado y paisajismo que tienen
vigencia desde 1920 y 1991, respectivamente. Dicha aprobacidn
proporcionara una forma integral y justa de financiar los servicios de
alumbrado y paisajismo.

Los dos distritos cubren la mayoria de los servicios de alumbrado y
paisajismo de la ciudad; sin embargo, con las tasas establecidas en
1920 para el area del centro y en 1991 para la mayor parte del resto de
la ciudad no se cubren los costos reales de los servicios. iQue otras
cosas cuestan en la actualidad lo mismo que costaban en 1920?

Desde 1991, y sin dudas desde 1920, en la ciudad se colocaron mas
luces, senates de trafico, hermosos parques y zonas de paseo al aire
libre. Teniendo en cuenta que el trafico aumento y la ciudad credo,
estas mejoras aumentan la seguridad y embellecen la comunidad,
atraen a comercios y residentes responsabtes y brindan acceso a los
espacios al aire libre y el rio. Como los gastos son superiores a las
ganancias, el fondo general debe compensar estas perdidas, porlo que
extrae fondos disponibles para los servicios de poiicia o el parque de
patin, por ejempio. Si se aprueba la Medida W, el fondo general se
dejara para las prioridades de la ciudad.

En los distritos existentes, aigunos propietarios pagan $11.24 por
ario, mientras que el vecino de entente paga $28.52 y otro vecino
paga $52.00. La mitad de los ciudadanos pagan $52 por ario y este
aumento representara menos de un dolar por mes. jOtros propietarios
no pagan nada! La aprobacidn de la Medida W significara que todos
los propietarios de residencias pagaran la misma tasa: $60 por ario o
$5 por mes, y los propietarios de comercios pagaran $120 por ario o
$10 por mes. /Gracias a la Medida W, las tasas seran justas para todos
los ciudadanos!

Isl Charlie Goeken, Alcalde
Isl Cynthia Temple, Votante Elegible
Isl Debra Turner, Votante Elegible
Isl Christopher Esther, Votante Elegible

RETUFACION DEL ARGUMENTOS A FAVOR DE LA MEDIDA W
PRESENTADO NINGUNA

ARGUMENTO EN CONTRA DE LA MEDIDA W
PRESENTADO NINGUNA

RETUFACION DEL ARGUMENTOS EN CONTRA DE LA MEDIDA W
PRESENTADO NINGUNA

O

ITi

Stanislaus -50/27

50/27

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE W
CITY OF WATERFORD

The City Council of the City of Waterford (the “City'’) did, pursuant to the provisions of the Meilo-Rcos Community Facilities Act of 1982
(Sections 53311 and following, California Government Code; hereafter referred to as the “Act”), on May 2, 2013, adopt a resolution entitled the
Resolution of the City Council of the City of Waterford Declaring Its intention to Establish a Community Facilities District and to Authorize the Levy
of Special Taxes (the “Resolution of Intention'), In the Resolution of intention, the City Council expressly approved the direction to prepare a written
Community Facilities District Report (the “Report”), for the proposed City of Waterford Community Facilities District No, 2013-1 (Public Services) (the
“District"), and noticed a pubic hearing to consider the formation of a CFD for June 6, 2013. Thereafter on June 8, 2013, the City Council did hold a
public hearing pursuant to the Act, and adopted a Resolution of the City Council of the City of Waterford Establishing the Formation of a Community
Facilities District and approving the proposition of the levy of the special tax be submitted to the qualified electors of the District.

it is intended that the Community Facilities District wM be eligible to fund ali or a portion of the costs of the maintenance of medians,
parkways, landscaping services, lighting, signals, and related appurtenances within or adjacent to the Community Facilities District.

The Community Facilities District may fund any of the following related to the maintenance of the services described above: obtaining,
reconstructing, furnishing, operating and maintaining equipment, apparatus or facilities related to providing the services and/or equipment,
apparatus, facilities or fixtures in areas to be maintained, paying the salaries and benefits of personnel necessary or convenient to provide the
services, and other related expenses and the provision of reserves for repairs and replacements and for the future provision of services. It is
expected that the services wiii be provided by the City, either with its own employees or by contract with third parties, or any combination thereof.
The Community Facilities District may also fund reasonable administrative fees of the City related to the Community Facilities District

The proposed boundaries of the District are those parcels in which special taxes may be levied and collected to pay for the costs and expenses of
the District services. The proposed boundaries of the District are coterminous with the boundaries of the City and are identified on the map of the
District recorded in the Stanislaus County Recorder’s Office on May 21, 2013, in Volume 5 at Page 18 as “SAMIS" and Document # DGC-2Q13-
0043722-00 of Maps of Assessment and Community Facilities Districts. The District map is on file with the City Clerk, to which reference is hereby
made and a reduced copy of such map is set forth in Appendix A of this Report.

COST ESTIMATE

Initial Maximum Amount Proposed to fee Expended

The annual budget presented below represents the initial maximum costs for providing the District services.

District Costs	2014/15 Maximum Amount
Landscape Maintenance	$50,304
Lighting	14,700
Utilities	77,500
Administration	24,700
Reserve Contribution	5,566
Total Costs	$172,770

Revenue

The initial maximum special tax rates are set forth in the Rate and Method of Apportionment for the District. Based upon anticipated development,
the anticipated initial maximum special tax revenue is as follows:

|i Property Land Use	Assessor's  Parcels	Residential  Units	2014/15 Maximum Special Tax Amount	Total Revenue j
1 Residential Property	2,304	2,687	$60 per Residential Unit	$161,220 j
j Non-Residential Property	71	N/A	$120 per Parcei	8,520 !
Rural, Farm & Agricultural Property	33	N/A	$60 per Parcel	1,980
I Undeveloped Property	35	N/A	$30 per Parcei	1,050
1 Total	2,443	2,687		$172,770

RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT

Ail of the property located within the District, unless exempted by iaw or by the Rate and Method of Apportionment, shall be taxed for the purpose of
providing necessary services for the District Pursuant to Section 53325,3 of the Act, the tax imposed "is a special tax and not a special assessment,
and there is no requirement that the tax be apportioned on the basis of benefit to any property." The special tax ‘may be based on benefit received
by parcels of real property, the cost of making facilities or authorized services available to each parcei, or other reasonable basis as determined by

As shown in Appendix B. the adopted Rate and Method of Apportionment provides information sufficient to allow each property owner within the
District to estimate the maximum special tax that he or she wii! be required to pay.

The District special tax shall be levied as long as necessary to meet the annual special tax requirement.

The annua! special tax shall be collected in the same manner and at the same time as ordinary ad valorem property taxes: provided, however, that
the District, may directly bill the special tax, and may collect special taxes at a different time or in a different manner as necessary to meet its financial
obligations.

APPENDICES

Boundary Map	A

Rate and Method of Apportionment 8

TEXTO COMPLETO BE LA MEDIDA W
CIUDAD DE WATERFORD

El ayuntamiento de la ciudad de Waterford (la “Ciudad") adopto, conforms a las disposiciones de la Ley de Instalaciones Comunitarias
Mello-Roos de 1982 (secciones 53311 ypostmoms, Codigo de Qobiemo de California; en adelante denominada la *Ley”j, el 2 de mayo de 2013, una
resoiuakm titulada Resoiucidn de! ayuntamiento de la ciudad de Waterford en la que se declare la mtenckm de establecer un Distrito de Instalaciones
Comunitarias y de autorizar la recaudacion de impuestos especiales (la “Resoluddn de intendin'1). En la Resoluddn de intencidn, el ayuntamiento
aprobd exphdtamente Sa order de prepam un informe sabre el Distrito de Instalaciones Comunitarias (el “Informs"), para el Distrito de instalaciones
Comunitarias de la ciudad de Waterford N.° 2013-1 (servicios publicos) (el “Distrito’’). Ademas, en dicha resoluddn se snformd sobre urn audiencia
publica para tomar decisiones sobre la forrmcidn de un CFD para el 6 de junto de 2013. Por consiguiente, el 6 de junto de 2013 el ayuntamiento llevo
a cabo una audiencia publics conforms a to esiipulado en la Ley y adopto una Rmoluddn del ayuntamiento de la ciudad de Waterford, mediante la
cual se estabiece un Distrito de Instalaciones Comunitarias y se aprueba que la dlsposicidn relacionada con ia recaudacion de un impuesto especial
se presente a ios electores calificados del distrito.

DESCRIPCION DE LOS SERVICIOS

Se espera que at Distrito de Instalaciones Comunitarias sea ehgibie para financiar el total o una parte de Ios costos del mantenimlento de
banquinas, autopistas, servicios de paisajismo, aiumbmdo, seriates y dependencies relacionadas dentro del Distrito de instalaciones Comunitarias o
en zones adyacentes.

El Distrito de instaiaciones Comunitarias puede financiar cuaiquiera de las siguientes acciones relacionadas con ei mantenimlento de
Ios servicios descnptos anteriormmta: obtencion, reconstmccibn, proporcidn, operacion y mantenimiento de equipos, aparatos, instalaciones o
dispositivos de ias areas en ias que se reaiizam el mantenimiento; page de salarios y beneficios a! personal necesario o capacitado para proporcionar
Ios servicios y otros gastos relacionadas; y ia provisidn de reserves para realizar raparaciones y reemplazos, y para ia Mura prestacion de servicios.
Se espera que la Ciudad estb a cargo de la prestacion de las servicios, ya sea a traves de sus propios empieados o mediante un contrato con tarceros,
o cualquier tipo de coiabomcion entre ambas partes. El Distrito de Instalaciones Comunitarias tambibn podria financiar las tarifas administrativas
razonabies de ia Ciudad en io respective ai Distrito de Instalaciones Comunitarias.

LiMfTES DEL DISTRITO

Los iimites propuestos del distrito son aquelias parcelas en las que se aplicarbn y recotectarin impuestos especiales para pagar Ios costos y gastos
de ios servicios del distrito. Los Iimites propuestos del distrito son adyacentes a Ios iimites de ia Ciudad, y se marcamn en ei mapa del distrito
registrado en ia oftcina de registro del condado de Stanislaus el 21 de mayo de 2013, eniapdgina 16 del voluman 5 como “5AMW y el documents
N.” DOC-2013-0043722-00 de ios Mapas de tasacion y distritos de instalaciones comunitarias. El mapa del distrito se encuentra en Ios registros
del fundormrio de la ciudad, a ios cuales se Pace referenda en ei presente. Una mpia reducida de dicho mapa se adjunta en ei Apendice A de este
informs.

cAlculo de costos

Ei presupuesto anuai que se presenta a contmuacian represents tos costos mbximos iniciaies destinados a la provisidn de Ios servicios del distrito.

1 Costas dei distrito			 				  2014115 imports maxima j
{ Mentenimienio de ias servseios de paisaiisma	$30,304 j
}'							" " ' """' "V1  1 Aiumbrado	?4,70o]
1 Ser/icios pubiicm	77,500 j
j Administration	24,70o]_
j Contribution para ias reservas	5,566 I
|l	 1 "1 	1  j Cosios totales	$172,770 j

ingresos maxima* aue set prove obtener del impuesto esmtial

Las tasas initiates maximas del impmsto especial se estipuian en el Indies y metodo de distribution del distrito, Tenmndo en cuenta * desarrotto
esperado, ios ingresos m&ximos initiates qua se preve obtener del impuesto especial son ids siguientes:

Utilization de propiedades y terrenes	Pamelas del tasador	Unidades  residenciaies	2014115 como mdximo Monto dei impuesto especial	Ingresos totales
Propiadades residenciaies	2,304	2,687	$60 por unidad residential	$161,220
Propledades no residenciaies	71	No se aplica	$120 por parceia	8,520
Propiedades ruraies, estancias y propiedades destinadas a ia agriculture	33	No se ap/ica	$60 por parceia	1,980
Propiedades sin explotar	35	No se aplica	$30 por parceia	1,050
Total	2,443	2,687		S172,770

I'NDICE Y METODO DE DISTRiBUCtON

Todas las propiedades ubicadas dentro del distrito, a monos quo asters exentas por iey o par m indice y metodo de distribution, estargn suietas a
impmstos, con el fin de poder proporcionar ios servicios necesarios para el distrito, Conforme a la Section 53325.3 de ia Ley, el impuesto qm se
apiicari as “un impuesto especial y no una tasaddn especial, y no existe ningun requisite en el que se indique que ei impuesto debe distribuirse
sagun ei benefitio a las propiedades". Ei Impuesto especial “podra catcularse segun ei benefitio retibido en concepto de las parcelss de ios bienes
inmuebles, el costa de habHiiar las insiaiaciones o las samdas autorizados an cada parcela c cuaiquier otro concaoto razonatie, sagun to estipuiacto
por el cuerpo legislative", aunque es posibie que el impmsto especial no se distribuya sobre una base ad valorem, conforme al Articuio XUIA de la
Constitution de California.

Como se muestra en el Apendice B, en ei Indice y metodo de distribution adopmdos se proportions la information necesaria para permitsr que cada
pmpietmo dentm del distrito pueda caicuiar ei impuesto especial maxima que d&beri pager.

TimimsyfQrmd da	especial

B impuesto especial dei distrito detent recoiectarse siempre qm see necesario para cumpiir con ei requisite ae Impuesto especial anuai.

E! impuesto especial anuai debera recoiectarse de is imma forma y ai mismo tiempo que las impmstos a /a propiedad ad valorem, smmpm y
cuando ei distrito pueda ccbrar directamente ei impuesto especial y pueda recoiectar ios impuestas especiales en difermtes mementos o de
diferentes formas, sagun sea necesario para cumpiir con /as obligacioms fmmtieras.

APENDICES

Mapa de ios limites

indice y mdtodo de distribution

A

B