Sample Ballot

& Voter’s Pamphlet

STATE SENATE DISTRICT 16
SPECIAL GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, JULY 23,2013

Last day to register to vote in this election:

JULY 8,2013

For Voting Information Call 600-8683 or Toll Free 1-800-742-1011
www.co.fresno.ca.usorwww.sos.ca.gov

POLLS OPEN AT 7:00 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8:00 P.M.

IF VOTING BY MAIL, YOUR VOTED BALLOT MUST BE RECEIVED BY FRESNO COUNTY
ELECTION OFFICIALS NO LATER THAN 8:00 P.M. ON ELECTION DAY.

Compiled by Brandi L. Orth
Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters

VOTE	Location on

HERE	back cover

VOTE	Vea	la

AQUI portada posterior

Boleta de Muestra

y Folleto del Elector

ELECCION GENERAL ESPECIAL
PARA EL DISTRITO 16 DEL SENADO
MARTES, 23 DE JULIO DEL 2013

El plazo para registrarse para votar en esta eleccion vence:
EL DIA8DE JULIO DEL 2013

Para information sobre el proceso de votacion,
favor de llamar al telefono 600-8683 o sin cargo al 1-800-742-1011

LAS URNAS ABREN A LAS 7:00 A.M. CIERRAN A LAS 8:00 P.M.

SI USTED VOTA POR CORREO, SU BOLETA VOTADA DEBE SER RECIBIDA POR
LOS OFICIALES DE ELECCIONES DEL CONDADO DE FRESNO A MAS TARDAR A
LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE DEL DIA DE LA ELECCION.

Compilada por Brandi L. Orth, Oficial del Registro Civil/Registradora de Electores
del Condado de Fresno.

OFFICIAL BALLOT / BOLETA OFICIAL

SENATE DISTRICT 16 SPECIAL GENERAL ELECTION, JULY 23, 2013, FRESNO COUNTY
ELECCION GENERAL ESPECIAL PARA EL DISTRITO 16 DEL SENADO, 23 DE JULIO DEL 2013, CONDADO DE FRESNO

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS: You must use a black pen, blue pen or No. 2 pencil to completely fill in the oval to the left of your choice. Fill
in the whole oval, or your vote may not be counted.

INSTRUCCIONES AL ELECTOR: Utilice usted una pluma o boligrafo de tinta negra o azul, o bien un lapiz No. 2, para llenar
completamente el ovalo al lado izquierdo de su preferencia. Llene el ovalo completamente, para que su voto sea contado con seguridad.

Fill in oval like this: • Llene el ovalo asi: •

Voter-Nominated Office / Puesto Nominado por los Votantes

All voters, regardless of the party preference they disclosed upon registration, or refusal to disclose a party preference, may vote
for any candidate for a voter-nominated office. The party preference, if any, designated by a candidate is selected by the
candidate and is shown for the information of the voters only. It does not imply that the candidate is nominated or endorsed by
the party or that the party approves of the candidate.

Todos los votantes, sin importar la preferencia de partido que hayan revelado al inscribirse, o su negativa de revelar una
preferencia de partido, pueden votar por cualquier candidato a un cargo nominado por los votantes. La preferencia del partido, si
la hubiera, designada por un candidato es seleccionada por el candidato y se muestra solo para la informacion de los votantes.
No implica que el candidato este nominado ni ratificado por el partido ni que el partido apruebe al candidato._

STATE SENATOR / SENADOR ESTATAL

STATE SENATOR DISTRICT 16 / SENADOR ESTATAL, DISTRITO 16
Vote For One / Voto Por Uno

O LETICIA PEREZ	Party	Preference:	Democratic	/	Preferencia	Partido:	Democrata

County Supervisor / Supervisora del condado

O ANDY VIDAK	Party	Preference:	Republican	/	Preferencia	Partido:	Republicano

Farmer/Small Businessman / Agricultor/Pequeno empresario

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS / PROPUESTA SOMETIDA A LOS ELECTORES

CITY/CIUDAD

A. Shall Ordinance 13-01 be adopted to lower the commercial rate for utility users tax from 10% to 7.5% immediately, lower the
residential rate to 7.5% effective July 1, 2019, allow the City Council the ability to further lower the commercial rate on or after
July 1, 2019 upon making certain findings, and to remove the cap on City utility users taxes?

A. ^Debe adoptarse la Ordenanza 13-01 para disminuir inmediatamente la tasa comercial del impuesto a los usuarios de
servicios publicos de 10% a 7.5%, disminuir la tasa residencial a 7.5% con vigencia el 1 de julio de 2019, permitir que el Concejo
Municipal pueda disminuir posteriormente la tasa comercial a partir del 1 de julio de 2019 luego de realizar ciertas
determinaciones, y eliminar el tope en los impuestos a los usuarios de servicios publicos de la Ciudad?

OYES, SI
o NO, NO

B. Shall an ordinance be adopted to amend the City's Utility Users Tax in order to impose a 5% utility users tax on new
telecommunication technologies such as wireless and voice over internet services?

B. ^Debe adoptarse una ordenanza para enmendar el Impuesto a los Usuarios de Servicios Publicos de la Ciudad a fin de
imponer un impuesto a los usuarios de servicios publicos de 5% sobre las nuevas tecnologias de telecomunicaciones como
servicios inalambricos y de voz por internet?

O YES, SI
O NO, NO

FRONT Card 2 RptPct 517-10 "0000823A'

FR 002-005

CITY OF FIREBAUGH MEASURE A
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

“Shall Ordinance 13-01 be adopted to lower the commercial rate for utility users tax from 10% to 7.5% immediately, lower the residential
rate to 7.5% effective July 1, 2019, allow the City Council the ability to further lower the commercial rate on or after July 1, 2019 upon
making certain findings, and to remove the cap on City utility users taxes?

YES or NO”

ORDINANCE NO. 13-01

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FIREBAUGH
AMENDING CHAPTER 22.5 OF THE FIREBAUGH MUNICIPAL CODE
RELATED TO THE CITY’S UTILITY USERS TAX

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Firebaugh (the “Council”), by Ordinance No. 88-2, submitted to the qualified electors
in the City a measure to establish a utility users tax within the City, fixed the date of an election thereon as June 7, 1988, and provided
the manner of holding the election and other matters related thereto; and

WHEREAS, the measure to establish the utility users tax and authorize its imposition by the City, as described in Ordinance No.
88-2, was approved by the legally required number of electors and was codified as Chapter 22.5 of the Firebaugh Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, by Ordinance 99-05, the Council amended the Utility Users Tax Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, the Council has now determined to further amend Chapter 22.5 of the Firebaugh Municipal Code, subject to voter
approval.

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
SECTION 1. Section 22.5-3e
SECTION 2. Section 22.5-4e
SECTION 3. Section 22.5-5e
SECTION 4. Section 22.5-3a

OF FIREBAUGH ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

is hereby repealed in its entirety,
is hereby repealed in its entirety,
is hereby repealed in its entirety
is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Upon the passage of the Measure, there will be imposed a tax on the amounts paid for any intrastate telephone services by every
rate payer in the City other than a telephone corporation using such services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate
often percent (10%) for residential rate payers and seven and one-half percent (7.5%) for commercial rate payers, of the charges
made for such services and shall be paid by the person paying for such services.”

SECTION 5. Section 22.5-4a is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Upon the passage of the Measure, there will be imposed a tax on the amounts paid for any intrastate telephone services by
every rate payer in the City other than an electrical corporation or a gas corporation, using electrical energy in the city. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate often percent (10%) for residential rate payers and seven and one-half percent (7.5%)
for commercial rate payers, of the total charges made for such energy, and for any supplemental services related to the provision
of electrical energy, provided by one (1) or more service suppliers, including a non-utility supplier, to a service user. The tax shall
be paid by the person paying for such electrical energy and supplemental services.

As used in this section, “charges” shall include charges made for (1) metered electrical energy, (2) minimum charges for services,
including customer charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, (3) supplemental
services related to the provision of electrical energy, whether or not the service supplier also supplies the electrical energy
commodity, and (4) all other annual and other periodic charges authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission or the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Charges for “supplemental services related to the provision of electrical energy” shall
include charges for (1) wheeling, transmission or distribution, and (2) standby, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support,
regulation, emergency or other similar services. Charges shall include monetary payments and the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for electrical energy or
supplemental services related to the provision of electrical energy.”

SECTION 6. Section 22.5-5a is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Upon the passage of the Measure, there will be imposed a tax upon every rate payer in the City, other than a gas corporation
using gas in the city which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of ten percent
(10%) for residential rate payers and seven and one-half percent (7.5%) for commercial rate payers, of the charges made for such
gas, including the gas commodity and services related to the storage, transportation and delivery of such gas, whether by one (1)
or more service suppliers, including a non-utility supplier. The tax shall be paid by the person paying for such gas commodity or
services.”

SECTION 7. A new Section 22.5-14 entitled “ADJUSTMENT OF RATES” is hereby added to read as follows:

“a. On July 1, 2019, the residential rates set forth in Sections 22-5.3a, 22.5-4a, and 22.5-5a shall be automatically reduced

FMAE-1

FR 002-007

from ten percent (10%) to seven and one-half percent (7.5%).

b. On or after July 1, 2019, the City Council may, by a supermajority (4/5) vote by resolution, lower the commercial rates set
forth in Sections 22-5.3a, 22.5-4a, and 22.5-5a from seven and one-half percent (7.5%) to five percent (5%) if the City Council
makes findings that one or more of the following conditions exist:

1.	The balance owed from the City’s General Fund to the City’s Enterprise Funds is less than $100,000 and the City’s
General Fund Budget will remain balanced after reducing the rates as set forth above; or

2.	The City Council makes findings that the seven and one-half percent (7.5%) rate charged to commercial rate payers
is causing one or more of the following unintended results:

(a)	Commercial rate payers are switching to solar power to avoid payment of the City’s Utility Users Tax; or

(b)	Industrial or other large businesses have refused to locate in, avoided expansion in, or have left the City as a
result of the Utility Users Tax.

3.	The Utility Users Tax rates may not be lowered below seven and one-half percent (7.5%) for residential and five
percent (5%) for commercial, unless approved by a vote of the registered voters of the City.”

SECTION 8. This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon and shall go into effect
ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council. The City Clerk is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance
where indicated below.

The foregoing Ordinance No. 13-01 was introduced at a special meeting of the City Council of the City of Firebaugh on the 8th
day of April, 2013, and was passed and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council on the 15th day of April 2013.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

The voters of the City of Firebaugh approved a Utility Users Tax (UUT) in 1988. The current UUT of 10% has been in place for 25 years.
This 10% UUT rate is applied to both commercial and residential accounts. The UUT is applicable to electricity, gas, and telephone
accounts, each of which has a separate $500 annual cap on the tax that a single account must pay in any given calendar year. This
UUT dollar amount is added to a customer’s utility bill (the PG&E or telephone company bill). Under the existing UUT rules, regardless
of the amount each account pays for these various utility services, the maximum UUT one account pays within a year is $500 per utility.

If Measure A is approved, the existing UUT will be modified as follows:

1)	The commercial UUT rate is immediately lowered from 10% to 7.5%.

2)	Effective July 1, 2019 the residential UUT rate automatically lowers from 10% to 7.5%.

3)	The $500 cap for each utility is removed.

4)	The City Council will have the ability to further lower the commercial rate to 5% on or after July 1, 2019 upon making certain
findings regarding the impacts of the UUT on business.

Measure A will have no effect on residential utility bills that amount to less than $5,000 per calendar year per utility. Typically, electrical
charges are the most expensive utility cost of residential users. For example, if a residential user’s annual electricity use charges are
$5,000 or less, the residential user’s UUT will remain the same under Measure A, since 10% of $5,000 is $500 (the current cap). How-
ever, utility charges that exceed $5,000 annually will result in an incrementally higher UUT under Measure A. Since the vast majority
of individual residential accounts are charged less than $5000 annually per utility, it is anticipated that this change will have little to no
impact on the amount of UUT paid by individual residential accounts.

Because under Measure A, the commercial UUT rate is lowered from 10 to 7.5%, the annual individual commercial utility bill under
$6,675 will actually pay a lower UUT amount than before Measure A. If a commercial utility charge exceeds $6,675 annually, the UUT
would be proportionally greater because the annual $500 cap will no longer apply. With the removal of the $500 cap, the greater the
utility bill the higher the UUT payment.

The net current revenue from the City UUT is approximately $300,000 annually. It is estimated that approval of Measure A will increase
this annual revenue to approximately $540,000. If Measure A does not pass, the previous rules governing UUT payments will still apply.
All UUT revenues go to the City’s General Fund, which has experienced severe losses in recent years. Most General Fund revenues
pay for police and fire services. Without these additional revenues, the future of these services is unknown.

s/ Laurie Avedisian
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The Firebaugh City Council urges citizens to vote YES for Measure A, which reduces the existing utility users tax (UUT) on commercial
Electricity/Gas/Telephone accounts (PG&E, telephone and similar utility bills) and removes the $500 annual Cap currently applicable
to each account. This is NOT a new Tax! Firebaugh’s UUT has been on your bills for nearly 25 years. Measure A simply amends
the current UUT, which applies a 10% tax to both commercial and residential accounts. A Yes Vote on Measure A would reduce the
commercial amount to 7.5%. Our analysis indicates that removing the $500 Cap would have little or no effect on the dollar amount
the vast majority of households and small businesses currently pay. Therefore, the over-whelming majority of residents and small
businesses will NOT experience an increase if Measure A is approved. Revenues collected from the UUT go to the City’s General

FMAE-2

FR 002-008

Fund that, along with providing other services, predominantly supports Police and Fire services. Also, effective July 2019 the residential
rate would automatically be reduced to 7.5%. Measure A amends the current UUT to make it more fair to all parties while bringing
in necessary additional funds for vital City Services. A YES VOTE ON MEASURE A IS A VOTE TO PROTECT VITAL CITY OF
FIREBAUGH SERVICES.

s/ Marcia Sablan
Mayor City of Firebaugh

s/ Christopher DeFrancesco

Mayor Pro-Tern, City of Firebaugh

s/ Craig Knight
Council Member City of Firebaugh

s/ Alfred Valdez

Council Member City of Firebaugh

s/ Brady Jenkins
Council Member City of Firebaugh

NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED AGAINST THE MEASURE

FMAE-3

FR 002-009