Belmont-Redwood Shores School District

Measure R

“Without increasing the current tax rate and to maintain excellent student achievement by protecting math, science, reading and writing
programs, supporting school libraries, attracting and retaining qualified teachers, and maintaining a well-rounded curriculum, including
music and art, shall Belmont-Redwood Shores Elementary School District renew its existing parcel taxes for ten years, with no funds for
administrators’ salaries, exempting senior citizens and requiring independent citizen oversight, generating funds that cannot be taken by
the State to benefit local schools?”

Full Text

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To maintain academic excellence by protecting and enhancing
reading, writing, math and science programs, supporting
school libraries, attracting and retaining qualified teachers, and
maintaining a well-rounded curriculum, including music and
art, and supporting technology upgrades, the Belmont-Redwood
Shores Elementary School District proposes to renew and extend
its two existing core academic programs parcel taxes, without
increasing the current tax rate, for a period of ten years from July
1, 2015. If approved by the voters, the combined education parcel
tax shall remain the same as is currently collected, namely $174
per year assessed against each Parcel located within the Belmont-
Redwood Shores Elementary School District, with an exemption
available for senior citizens and recipients of SSI for a disability,
and to implement strict accountability measures in connection
with the temporary levy that are over and above those required by
law, including the appointment of an independent citizen oversight
committee to provide oversight and accountability to ensure the
funds are used to:

•	Protect math, science, reading and writing programs;

•	Support school libraries;

•	Attract and retain qualified teachers; and

•	Maintain well-rounded curriculum, including music
and art.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ANY OF THE
PROCEEDS OF THE EDUCATIONAL SPECIAL TAX BE
USED FOR ADMINISTRATORS’ SALARIES OR BENEFITS.

The proceeds of the education parcel tax shall be deposited into a
separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the special tax, the term “Parcel” means
any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the
boundaries of the Belmont-Redwood Shores Elementary School
District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property
taxes from the San Mateo County Assessor/Tax Collector. All
property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied
no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt
from the education parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this special tax, any such “Parcels”
which are (i) contiguous, (ii) used solely for owner-occupied,
single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical
ownership may, by submitting an application of the owners
thereof by June 30 of any year to the District, be treated as a single
“parcel” for purposes of the levy of this education parcel tax.

EXEMPTION OF SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to the California Government Code Section
50079(b), any owners of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied,
single-family residential purposes and who are either (a) 65
years of age or older, or (b) persons receiving Supplemental
Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, may obtain
an exemption from the education parcel tax by submitting one
application, by June 30 of any year, to the District. Once an
exemption has been granted, the exemption is effective for the

full remaining term of the educational parcel tax. Persons who
have qualified for such an exemption under Measure G and
Measure U, will automatically qualify for a similar exemption
from this Measure without any further application needing to
be filed with the District.

With respect to all general property tax matters within
its jurisdiction, the San Mateo County Assessor/Tax Collector,
or other appropriate County tax officials shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that
decision shall be final and binding. The District shall make all
determinations with respect to matters specific to the levy of the
education parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption and
the SSI Exemption and the classification of property for purposes
of calculating the tax, and all such decisions of the District shall be
final and binding.

NO INCREASE IN CURRENT TAX RATE

The Measure G and Measure U academic program
parcel taxes, which expire on June 30, 2015 and June 30, 2016,
respectively, shall be renewed and extended for ten years starting
on July 1, 2015 and ending on June 30, 2025 and assessed
against every Parcel in the District. If approved by the voters,
the combined education parcel tax shall remain the same as is
currently collected under Measure G and U, namely $174 per year
assessed against each Parcel and be collected for a period of ten
additional years, commencing July 1, 2015.

If the 2013 Educational Parcel Tax is approved by the
voters on November 5, 2013, the levy of the 2013 Educational
Parcel Tax of $174 per Parcel per year shall commence on July 1,
2015. Prior to July 1, 2015, the Measure G and Measure U parcel
taxes will be collected at a combined rate of $174 per parcel per
year. On June 30, 2015 Measure G will expire by its terms and
Measure U will be terminated. No additional levy may be made
on Measure U and G on and after June 30, 2015. On and after
July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2025, only the 2013 Educational
Parcel Tax is authorized to be levied, at a rate of $174 per Parcel
per year.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER
GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the education parcel tax is not intended
to decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal
government sources that would otherwise be available to the
District during the period of the education parcel tax. In the event
that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District
may cease the levy or shall reduce the education parcel tax to the
extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or
offset.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California
Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following
accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the
education parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a)
the specific purposes of the education parcel tax shall be those
purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the education parcel
tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified
above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which
the proceeds of the education parcel tax must be deposited; and
(d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees

Belmont-Redwood Shores School District

of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and
expended from the proceeds of the education parcel tax and (ii)
the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be
funded from the proceeds of the education parcel tax, as identified
above; and (e) the District shall appoint an independent citizens’
oversight committee to review the expenditures of the education
parcel tax and report its findings directly to the Board of Trustees
of the District.

Impartial Analysis of Measure R

The California Constitution and state law authorize
school districts to levy qualified special taxes for specified
purposes. Government Code Section 50077 provides that such tax
measures pass if two-thirds of those voting on them vote for them.

The Belmont-Redwood Shores School District (the
“District”) currently has parcel taxes approved in 2004 and 2008
that collectively impose a tax of $174 per parcel per year. The
2004 tax ($96 per year) expires June 30, 2015; the 2008 tax ($78
per year) expires June 30, 2016. By this measure, the District’s
Board of Trustees proposes to renew and extend a replacement tax
for ten years beginning July 1, 2015. This tax shall be at a rate
of $174 per year per parcel on taxable parcels in the District. If
this measure is approved, the current $174 in taxes would cease on
June 30, 2015.

The tax applies to parcels of land in the District that
receive a bill for property taxes from San Mateo County tax
collection officials. Any property owner who resides in a single
family residence and is either (1) aged 65 years or older or (2)
receives Supplemental Security Income for a disability may
apply for an exemption from the tax. If granted, the exemption
will continue for the duration of the tax without the need for any
future application, and any property owner who already qualified
for an exemption under the current parcel taxes will automatically
qualify for an exemption from this tax without any further
application. The owner of contiguous parcels held under identical
ownership which are used solely for owner-occupied single-family
residences may apply annually to have the parcels taxed as a single
parcel. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which
is levied no ad valorem property taxes will also be exempt from
the proposed tax.

The stated purposes of the parcel tax are to: protect math,
science, reading, and writing programs; support school libraries;
attract and retain qualified teachers; and maintain well-rounded
curriculum, including music and art. The proceeds from the tax
may be used only for these purposes.

The proceeds of the parcel tax will be placed into a
special account. An annual report accounting for parcel tax
revenues collected and expended and the status of projects
or programs funded by the tax will be filed with the Board of
Trustees. And an independent citizens’ oversight committee will
be appointed to review the expenditures of the parcel tax.

A “yes” vote on this measure would end the current
taxes of $174 per year per taxable parcel on June 30,
2015, and levy a new tax of $174 per year per taxable
parcel on property within the District for a period of
ten years beginning July 1, 2015, for the purposes
listed above.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the
parcel tax to be levied—the current tax of $96 would
continue until June 30,2015, and the tax of $78 would
continue until June 30, 2016.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the
measure vote “yes.”

Belmont-Redwood Shores School District

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument in Favor of Measure R

Vote YES on Measure R to protect excellent education in our
community, without increasing taxes by a single penny.

We are proud that our Belmont and Redwood Shores elementary
and middle school students earn top scores on statewide exams—
and Measure R will help keep them on top.

Measure R renews existing voter-approved funding for our schools
that will expire soon without your YES vote.

All Measure R funds stay in local classrooms to support student
success, protect outstanding academic programs and retain
qualified teachers—not a single cent can be taken away by the
state.

Student enrollment has increased dramatically because our schools
are well-known for academic excellence. Yet, our schools have
not received any increase in state funding. In fact, the state has
cut $8.5 million from our schools over the last 5 years—so our
schools are educating more students with less money.

That is why Measure R is more critical than ever for local students.

Vote YES on R to continue student success in our schools.

•	Protect math, science, reading and writing programs

•	Support school libraries

•	Attract and retain qualified teachers

•	Maintain a well-rounded curriculum, including music and
art

Measure R does not increase taxes by one penny.

•	All funds stay in local schools and cannot be taken away
by the state

•	Continues an exemption for senior citizens

•	Prohibits funds from being used for central administrators’
salaries

•	Independent citizens’ oversight is required

•	Expires in 10 years and cannot be renewed without voter
approval

Our excellent schools make Belmont and Redwood Shores
desirable places to live, protecting property values for all of us.

Please join us to protect our outstanding Belmont and Redwood
Shores schools, without increasing taxes—Vote YES on R.

/s/ Carole L. Wong	August	8,	2013

Redwood Shores Resident

/s/ John R. Violet	August	9.	2013

Belmont City Treasurer

/s/ Mary Morrissey Parden	August	8,	2013

Belmont Chamber of Commerce Former President

/s/ George Metropulos	August	7,	2013

Teacher Belmont-Redwood Shores Sc. Dist.

/s/ Sue Kim-Ahn	August	12,	2013

Redwood Shores Elementary parent

This half page intentionally left blank

No Argument Against Measure R Submitted

3