Soquel Union Elementary School
District parcel tax, Measure S (May

2013)

| Text of measure

The question on the ballot:

Measure S: EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT MEASURE. To provide stable funding
for New Brighton Middle, Main Street, Opal Cliffs, Santa Cruz Gardens and Soquel
Elementary for academic programs in reading, writing, math and science, attracting
and retaining quality teachers, smaller class sizes, school libraries/librarians,
maintaining art and music programs, shall Soquel Union Elementary School District
levy an education tax of $90 per parcel for eight years with citizen oversight,
exempting senior citizens, no funds for administrators’ salaries, and all funds staying
local?[2][3]

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

SOQUEL UNION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT MEASURE. To provide

S stable funding for New Brighton Middle, Main Street, Opal
Cliffs, Santa Cruz Gardens and Soquel Elementary for
academic programs in reading, writing, math and science,
attracting and retaining quality teachers, smaller class sizes,
school libraries/librarians, maintaining art and music programs,
shall Soquel Union Elementary School District levy an education
tax of $90 per parcel for eight years with citizen oversight,
exempting senior citizens, no funds for administrators’ salaries,
and all funds staying local?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE S

SOQUEL UNION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
Core Academic Programs Parcel Tax Measure S

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To ensure reliable funding for Soquel schools that cannot be taken by the State,
protect academic programs in reading, writing, math and science and attract
and retain highly qualified teachers, provide advanced math, science and

other courses for high-performing students, protect school libraries and librarians
and maintain smaller class size, with no proceeds used for administrative salaries
and benefits, the Soquel Union Elementary School District (“District”) proposes to
establish a core academic programs parcel tax for a period of eight years,
beginning July 1, 2013, at the rate of $90 per year, on each assessor’s parcel
located within the Soquel Union Elementary School District, with an exemption
available for senior citizens and recipients of SSI for a disability, and to
implement strict accountability measures, including independent citizen
oversight, to ensure the funds are used to:

• Protect core academic programs in reading, writing, math and science;

• Maintain advanced math, science and other courses for high-performing
students;

• Attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

• Support smaller class sizes;

• Retain school libraries and librarians;

• Maintain art and music programs; and
• Keep schools safe and clean

AMOUNT OF CORE ACADEMIC PROGRAMS PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF
ASSESSMENT

The core academic programs parcel tax shall be $90 (or less as provided below)
per year for eight (8) full years assessed against each Parcel.

The proceeds of the core academic programs parcel tax shall be deposited into a
separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the core academic programs parcel tax, the term “Parcel” means
any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Soquel
Union Elementary School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Santa Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that
is otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in
any year shall also be exempt from the core academic programs parcel tax in such
year.

For purposes of this core academic programs parcel tax, any such “Parcels” which
are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting an application
of the owners thereof by June 15 of each year to the District, be treated as a single
“parcel” for purposes of the levy of the core academic programs parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners of a
Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who
are either (a) 65 years of age or older or (b) persons receiving Supplemental
Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from
the core academic programs parcel tax by annually submitting an application
therefore, by June 15 of each year, to the District.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa
Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector, or other appropriate county tax officials shall
make all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that
decision shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the
core academic programs parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption and
the SSI Exemption and the classification of property for purposes of calculating the
tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the core academic programs parcel tax is not intended to
decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal government revenue
sources that would otherwise be available to the District during the period of the
core academic programs parcel tax. In the event that the levy and collection does
have such an effect, the District shall cease the levy or shall reduce the core
academic programs parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the
amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections
50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall
apply to the core academic programs parcel tax levied in accordance with this
Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the core academic programs parcel tax shall
be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the core academic
programs parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified
above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of
the core academic programs parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual
written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the
amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the core academic
programs parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or
authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the core academic instruction parcel
tax, as identified above. Further, the Board of Trustees will establish a process
for independent citizen oversight.

44-502

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL MEASURE S  If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Soquel Union Elementary School District (“the School District”) will be authorized to levy a special tax on real property. The tax would be imposed for eight years beginning July 1,2013, at the rate of $90 per year on each parcel within the School District.  The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be applied only to the purposes set out in the full text of Measure S which is printed in this pamphlet. It may not be used for administrators’ salaries or benefits.  In accordance with State law, the School District Board would implement accountability measures. It would create a separate account into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited. An annual written report would show the amount of the special taxes which have been collected and expended, and the status of projects to be funded from those proceeds.  The special parcel tax is to be collected in the same manner as those property taxes which are based upon property value.  Property owners who are 65 years of age or older or who are receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability regardless of age, whose property is used solely for owner-occupied, single family residential purposes, may obtain an exemption from the parcel tax by applying annually to the School District. An owner of contiguous parcels meeting specified criteria may also apply annually to have the parcels treated as a single parcel for purposes of the tax.  The School District Board of Trustees proposes to reduce this parcel tax if it should develop that it has an unintended effect of decreasing or offsetting local, state or federal government funding sources that would otherwise be available to the School District.  Any necessary increases in the School District’s appropriations limit will be accomplished pursuant to State law, in order to permit proceeds of the special tax to be spent for the authorized purposes.  A “yes” vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.  A “no” vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.  DANA McRAE, COUNTY COUNSEL By Jane M. Scott, Assistant County Counsel	

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Vote YES on S to protect strong educational programs and retain qualified
teachers in our Soquel and Capitola neighborhood elementary and middle schools.

Whether they attend New Brighton Middle, Main Street, Opal Cliffs, Santa Cruz
Gardens or Soquel Elementary, local children receive a strong foundation in math,
science, reading and writing. In fact, student achievement is on the rise, with
statewide test scores increasing each year.

To protect education in our community and continue preparing students for
success in high school, college and careers, Measure S is essential.

Since 2008, our schools have experienced $1.3 million in cuts due to state
reductions in education funding, causing increased class sizes, reductions to art
and music programs and cuts to school library services. We cannot rely on the
State to provide a strong education for the students in our community.

Measure S provides stable education funding for our schools—the State cannot
take a single penny.

Measure S continues student success in Soquel and Capitola

•	Protects academic programs in reading, writing, math, science and
technology

•	Maintains advanced math and science programs for high-performing
students

•	Attracts and retains qualified teachers

•	Supports smaller class sizes

•	Maintains school libraries

•	Maintains art and music programs

•	Keeps schools safe and clean

Financial accountability and local oversight are required:

•	All funds go directly to our local schools and cannot be taken by the State

•	A Citizen Oversight Committee and annual reports ensure fiscal
accountability

•	No funds may be spent on administrators’ salaries

•	Expires in 8 years and cannot be extended without voter approval

•	A senior citizen homeowners’ exemption is available

Even if we don’t have children in school, we know strong schools support our local
youth and keep our neighborhoods safe and our property values strong. Please
join us and vote YES on S.

si John Leopold
Santa Cruz County Supervisor, 1st District

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Measure S needs a 2/3rds “yes” vote to raise your property taxes but only a simple
majority to extend it in a future election. Special off-cycle elections seem to draw
more educated, involved voters who understand the value of education. Please
don’t be rooked by the slick verbiage of this Measure. If this were really about
children and quality education, the board members would already be working
across districts to consolidate schools and services, decrease administrators and
negotiate teacher contracts that reward quality teachers not tenure.

This measure is about new funding for basic education so current money can be
saved or diverted to build a new elementary school and increase pay for unions
and administrators. This District cannot be trusted. The people voted NO on
preschools but Soquel Union built Opal Cliff preschool anyway. Why should we
trust them now?

Soquel Union is not a growing district. Parents volunteering in the library and any
other place needed is a real plus. It promotes cooperation, provides oversight and
saves needed financial resources. Grow the volunteers! Don’t replace them with
paid, benefited staff.

Eighty-three percent of us don’t have children in the District schools. We have a
right to expect our homes and limited resources will be respected. The District
Board and Superintendent cannot claim the moral high ground simply by invoking
children and education in a ballot measure. Protect your home and your
neighbors’. Vote NO on Measure S.

si Sandra L. Erickson
Home Owner

si Mary Sue Leffel
Homeowner

si John Conrado
Home Owner

si Mimi Edgar
Retired Teacher and Soquel Resident

si Laurie Negro
Local Busines Owner, Betty Burgers

si Molly Graessle
Soquel Union Elementary School Parent and Capitola Resident

si Joe Clarke
26 Years Local Law Enforcement

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S  Your home is in the crosshairs of the Soquel Union Elementary School District. The election that passed Proposition 30 to raise sales tax for schools wasn’t even certified when Soquel School District started spending limited school funds to poll voters, to prepare a four page color brochure for mailing to ask you to raise your taxes again, and better yet (if you are a senior), to ask you to raise your neighbor’s taxes. Your home is not a piggy bank and in Santa Cruz County property values are not driven by the perceived quality of education.  The citizens of California have taken a real financial hit over the past five years. They are unemployed or underemployed and their home values have dropped or gone into foreclosure. The district expects to maintain business as usual and bemoans having to make difficult choices. Trimming $300,000 a year from a $14,000,000 budget is not draconian. When citizens are financially healthy again the schools will be also.  This District cannot be trusted. California residents voted NO on public preschools but Soquel Union built one in Jade Street Park for the express purpose of trying to grow the shrinking student population. There are about 1900 students in the four real schools. The district spends close to $8ooo per child. Teacher student ratios have increased but even 30 students in a class is a very small number compared to the not so distant past. Soquel Union will never think they have enough of our money!  What is the rush to have a special election? In Mav no less, bv mail! Thev are trvina to catch you off guard. Guard your property. VOTE NO ON MEASURE S  si Mary Sue Leffel Home Owner  si Lawrence J. Borger Home Owner  si Ellen A. Borger Home Owner  si John D. Conrado Home Owner  si Sandra L. Erickson Home Owner	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S  The few Measure S opponents simply don’t know the facts.  Those who are voting YES on S—including local elected officials, business leaders, retirees and realtors—believe that quality education is a priority and understand that our excellent local schools benefit us all.  Here are the facts:  The State is an unreliable partner when it comes to education funding. Our local schools have experienced $1.3 million in cuts since 2008, causing class size increases and academic program reductions. Proposition 30 does not provide a single dollar of additional funding or restore any of the cuts our schools have already endured.  Measure S provides our community with a vital solution, giving our schools the local control necessary to continue student achievement.  Every penny stays in our neighborhood schools—Sacramento can’t take away one penny.  Soquel Union Elementary School District has a history of sound fiscal management. In this tradition, fiscal accountability is a key component of Measure S.  Measure S can only be used for specific educational priorities:  •	Protecting academic programs  •	Attracting and retaining qualified teachers  •	Supporting smaller class sizes  •	Maintaining school libraries  •	Maintaining art and music programs  •	Keeping schools safe and clean  Measure S cannot pay for administrators’ salaries. A citizens’ oversight committee will provide annual public reports, ensuring funds are spent as promised.  Seniors, who are on fixed incomes and have been contributing to our community for decades, are eligible for an exemption.  We know that Measure S is what our community and local students need.  Join us and vote YES on S.  si Ted Donnelly Community Member  si Lou Tuosto  former SUESD Citizen Oversight Committee member and owner, Tuosto Insurance & Financial  s/Jill Gallo Program Coordinator Cabrillo College  si Jacob Young Certified Financial Planner  si Ruth G. Fisher local business owner/Dancenter

44-505

SOQUEL UNION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

Resolution #_______________

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
OF THE SOQUEL UNION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CALLING A MAY 7, 2013 MAIL BALLOT ELECTION FOR VOTER
APPROVAL OF A CORE ACADEMIC PROGRAMS PARCEL TAX

WHEREAS, the Soquel Union Elementary School District (the “District”) is devoted to
providing all students with a high quality public education that emphasizes reading,
writing, math and science programs; and

WHEREAS, the State is an unreliable partner when it comes to funding education and
funding for our District has been reduced substantially in the past several years, and will be
inadequate to provide the level of support to the District’s educational programs that the
residents of the District expect and the students need; and

WHEREAS, increasing school class sizes, laying off teachers and cutting core academic
programs will impact the quality of education today and students will suffer in the future;
and

WHEREAS, stable local funding is needed to maintain our outstanding local schools; and

WHEREAS, local property values within the District are related to the quality of education
available in the District’s public schools; and

WHEREAS, Article XIIIA, Section 4 of the California Constitution and Sections 50075 et
seq., of the California Government Code permit a school district to propose the adoption of
a special education tax for specified purposes and to levy a core academic instruction
parcel tax following approval by at least two-thirds of the voters voting upon the
proposition; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of the District proposes to establish the
levy of a core academic programs parcel tax upon parcels of land within the District for the
purposes set forth in this Resolution; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires to apply all the proceeds of the core academic programs
parcel tax to the protection of student programs and not for administrator salaries or
benefits; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires to seek a local core academic programs parcel tax because
the revenues of such can only benefit local District elementary and middle schools and
cannot be taken by the State of California or other school districts; and

WHEREAS, the Board has conducted two public hearings in connection with the proposed
election regarding the core academic programs parcel tax prior to the adoption of this
Resolution;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Trustees of the Soquel Union
Elementary School District as follows:

Section 1. This Board finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are true and

correct.

Section 2. This Board hereby proposes to establish the levy of a core academic
instruction parcel tax to be used to:

•	Protect core academic programs in reading, writing, math and science;

•	Maintain advanced math, science and other courses for high-performing
students;

•	Improve technology in support of education programs;

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

•	Support smaller class sizes;

•	Retain school libraries and librarians;

•	Maintain art and music programs; and

•	Keep schools safe and clean.

Under no circumstances shall any of the proceeds of the core academic
programs parcel tax be used for administrators’ salaries and benefits.

Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1 the Board determines that the
proceeds of the core academic instruction parcel tax shall only be applied for the purposes
stated above.

Section 3. The core academic programs parcel tax shall be a special tax of $90 per
year assessed against each Parcel.

As used herein, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of land which lies wholly or
partially within the boundaries of the District, for which the Assessor/Tax Collector of
Santa Cruz County, issues a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes; provided,
however, that any such parcels which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-
occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership, may,
by annually submitting an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of each year to the
Board be treated as a single parcel for purposes of the levy of this core academic programs
parcel tax. The core academic programs parcel tax shall be levied in each fiscal year for
eight (8) full years following voter approval of the tax.

2

Section 4. Subject to voter approval as set forth below, the core academic programs
parcel tax shall be levied commencing with the 2013-2014 fiscal year of the District, and
shall be collected with, and in the same manner and subject to the same interest and
penalties as, general ad valorem taxes collected by the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector.
In accordance with the requirements of Government Code Section 50075.3, the District
shall create a separate account into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited.

Section 5. The levy and collection of the core academic programs parcel tax is not
intended to decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal government funding
sources that would otherwise be available to the District at any time during which the
parcel tax may be levied. In the event that the levy and collection of the core academic
programs parcel tax does have such an effect, the District shall reduce the core academic
programs parcel tax levy to the extent of any such decrease or offset. Additionally, any
persons who are either (a) 65 years of age or older or (b) receiving Supplemental Security
Income for a disability, regardless of age, and the owner of a Parcel used solely for owner-
occupied, single-family residential purposes, may obtain an exemption from the levy of
the core academic programs parcel tax, by submitting an application of such owners or
persons, prior to June 15 of any year, to the District.

Section 6. The Board shall provide in each year (pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the
Government Code) for any increase in the District’s appropriation limit as shall be
necessary to ensure that proceeds of the core academic programs parcel tax may be spent
for the authorized purposes set forth in Section 2 above and Section 7 below.

Section 7. This Board hereby requests that the Santa Cruz County Registrar of
Voters submit the following measure to the voters of the District and to print this entire
Full Ballot Text in the ballot pamphlet to be published and mailed for the all-mailed ballot
election scheduled for Tuesday, May 7, 2013:

* * *

SOQUEL UNION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

Core Academic Programs Parcel Tax Measure_

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To ensure reliable funding for Soquel schools that cannot be taken by the State,
protect academic programs in reading, writing, math and science and attract and
retain highly qualified teachers, provide advanced math, science and other courses for
high-performing students, protect school libraries and librarians and maintain smaller class
size, with no proceeds used for administrative salaries and benefits, the Soquel Union
Elementary School District (“District”) proposes to establish a core academic programs
parcel tax for a period of eight years, beginning July 1, 2013, at the rate of $90 per year, on
each assessor’s parcel located within the Soquel Union Elementary School District, with an
exemption available for senior citizens and recipients of SSI for a disability, and to
implement strict accountability measures, including independent citizen oversight, to
ensure the funds are used to:

3

•	Protect core academic programs in reading, writing, math and science;

•	Maintain advanced math, science and other courses for high-performing
students;

•	Improve technology to support educational programs;

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

•	Support smaller class sizes;

•	Retain school libraries and librarians;

•	Maintain art and music programs; and

•	Keep schools safe and clean

AMOUNT OF CORE ACADEMIC PROGRAMS PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF
ASSESSMENT

The core academic programs parcel tax shall be $90 (or less as provided below) per
year for eight (8) full years assessed against each Parcel.

The proceeds of the core academic programs parcel tax shall be deposited into a
separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the core academic programs parcel tax, the term “Parcel” means
any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Soquel Union
Elementary School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes
from the Santa Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that is otherwise exempt
from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the core academic programs parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this core academic programs parcel tax, any such “Parcels” which
are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting an application of the
owners thereof by June 15 of each year to the District, be treated as a single “parcel” for
purposes of the levy of the core academic programs parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners of a Parcel
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either (a)
65 years of age or older or (b) persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a
disability, regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from the core academic programs
parcel tax by submitting an application therefore, by June 15 of any year, to the District.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa
Cruz County Assessor/Tax Collector, or other appropriate county tax officials shall make
all final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be
final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the core academic
programs parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption and the SSI Exemption and
the classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the
District shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the core academic programs parcel tax is not intended to decrease
or offset any increase in local, state or federal government revenue sources that would
otherwise be available to the District during the period of the core academic programs
parcel tax. In the event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District
shall cease the levy or shall reduce the core academic programs parcel tax to the extent that
such action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections
50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to
the core academic programs parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the core academic programs parcel tax shall be those purposes
identified above; (b) the proceeds of the core academic programs parcel tax shall be applied
only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be
created into which the proceeds of the core academic programs parcel tax must be
deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Trustees of the
District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the
core academic programs parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required
or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the core academic instruction parcel tax, as
identified above. Further, the Board of Trustees will establish a process for
independent citizen oversight.

*End of Full Ballot Text of Measure*

5

The abbreviated text of the ballot proposition with respect to the foregoing measure
shall read as follows:

“EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT MEASURE. To provide stable funding for New
Brighton Middle, Main Street, Opal Cliffs, Santa Cruz Gardens and Soquel Elementary for
academic programs in reading, writing, math and science, attracting and retaining quality
teachers, smaller class sizes, school libraries/librarians, maintaining art and music
programs, shall Soquel Union Elementary School District levy an education tax of $90 per
parcel for eight years with citizen oversight, exempting senior citizens, no funds for
administrators’ salaries, and all funds staying local?”

Yes	No

6

The District's Superintendent, or designee, is hereby authorized and directed to
make any changes to the text of the measure, or to the abbreviated form of the measure, as
may be convenient or necessary to comply with the intent of this Resolution, the
requirements of elections officials, and requirements of law.

Section 8. The measure set forth in Section 7 shall be submitted to the voters of the
District at a mail ballot election to be held on May 7, 2013. If approved by at least two-
thirds of the voters voting on the measure, the measure shall take effect on July 1, 2013.

Section 9. This Resolution shall stand as the order to the Santa Cruz County
Registrar of Voters to call a mail ballot election within the boundaries of the District on
May 7, 2013. This Board requests that the District election be consolidated with any and
all elections to be held within the boundaries of the District on May 7, 2013 and be
conducted as a mail ballot as permitted by Election Code Sections 4000(c)(2) and 1500.

Section 10. The Board hereby requests that the Santa Cruz County Registrar of
Voters or other appropriate election official of the County, take all actions which are
necessary or appropriate in connection with the election, including, but not limited to,
printing and mailing sample ballots, arguments and applications for absentee ballots,
canvassing election returns and certifying the results of the election to the Board. The
Board hereby agrees to reimburse Santa Cruz County in full for any services performed by
the County for the District upon presentation of an invoice to the District.

Section 11. The Secretary of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to deliver
a copy of this Resolution to the Santa Cruz County Superintendent of Schools and the
Registrars of Voters/Elections Department of Santa Cruz County, as well as the Clerk of
the Board of Supervisors of Santa Cruz County, not later than February 7, 2013, and to
give notice of the election by causing both the Registrars of Voters/Elections Departments
to publish the text of the measure and other items, not later than 15 days before the date of
the election. The Secretary of the Board is hereby further authorized and directed to post a
copy of this Resolution on or near the doors of the District Office and in three public places
within the District for at least two weeks before the date of the election.

Section 12. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this Resolution is for any
reason found to be invalid, such section, subsection, phrase or clause shall be severed from,
and shall not affect the validity of, all remaining portions of this Resolution which can be
given effect without the severed portion.

Section 13. The members of the Board are hereby authorized, but not directed, to
prepare and file with the Santa Cruz County Registrar of Voters/Election Department, a
ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in Section 7 hereof, within the time
established by such Department.

Section 14. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the core academic
programs parcel tax shall be collected by the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector at the same
time and manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes
collected by the tax collectors. The tax shall bear interest at the same rate for unpaid ad
valorem property taxes until paid.

7

Section 15. Subject to two-thirds voter approval and prior to adoption of a
resolution levying the qualified special tax in any given year, this Board shall conduct a
public hearing on the matter. Notice of the time, date, and place of hearing shall be
published pursuant to California Government Code Section 54954.6. Following said
hearing this Board may adopt a resolution fixing the amount of tax to be raised and the
rates for each type of property. Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the properties
against which taxes are assessed and collectible.

Section 16. The Superintendent shall, pursuant to Government Code Section
50075.3, file an annual report as provided herein accounting for the core academic
programs tax revenues collected and the manner in which they have been spent.

Section 17. The officers of the District are, and each of them acting alone is,
hereby directed to take such other actions and to execute such other documents as are
necessary to carry out the purposes of this Resolution.

Section 18. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10400 the Board requests the
governing body of any such other political subdivision, or any officer otherwise authorized
by law, to partially or completely consolidate such election and to further provide that the
canvass be made by any body or official authorized by law to canvass the returns of the
election, and that the Board consents to such consolidation.

8

The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Soquel
Union Elementary School District at a regular meeting held on February 6, 2013 by the
following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

/sL__________________________________

President, Board of Trustees

Soquel Union Elementary School District

ATTEST:

/s/______________________________

Clerk, Board of Trustees

Soquel Union Elementary School District

9