This is an archive of a past election.

See http://www.smartvoter.ora/ca/ia/ for current information.

League of Women Voters of California Education Fund

SUPPORT
SMART VOTER /

Los Angeles County, CA	April	9,	2013	Election

Measure K

Business License Tax Increase
City of Vernon

Ordinance - Majority Approval Required
See Also: Index of all Measures

Information shown below: Impartial Analysis I Arguments I

Shall an ordinance he adopted to increase the rates of the City's
existing business license taxes and to modify the method for
calculating such taxes?

Impartial Analysis from Nicholas George
Rodriguez, City Attorney

Measure K would increase the rates of the City's existing business
license taxes to raise revenue for general City purposes, and it
would also make some changes in the method for calculating such
taxes.

This election is archived. Any

links to sources outside of

Smart Voter may no longer be

active. No further links will be

added to this page.

Links to sources outside of Smart Voter
are provided for information only and
do not imply endorsement.

The City of Vernon currently imposes business license taxes on
most business entities and persons who conduct business in the
City. Most businesses pay an annual tax, per location, based on
the number of employees that work for the business at that
location. Warehousing businesses pay a tax for each location
based on the square footage of building space used at that location
for warehousing. Certain other businesses, primarily itinerant
businesses or businesses that operate from vehicles (such as
taxicabs and food trucks), pay a flat rate.

Measure K proposes a tax ordinance that increases each of the
rates of the business license taxes. For example, the annual tax on
a business location with 2 to 10 employees, if taxed on a number-
of-employees basis, would increase from $230 to $1,150. The
annual tax on a business location with 1,001 to 1,100 employees,
if taxed on a number-of-employees basis, would increase from
$3,140 to $15,700. For businesses taxed on a square foot basis,
the tax for a main location (currently $240 for the fi rst 5,000
square feet, plus 4.2 cents per additional square foot up to a
maximum square footage tax of $2,390), would increase to $1,200
for the first 5,000 square feet, plus 21 cents per additional square
foot, up to a maximum square footage tax of $11,950. Each rate
would automatically further increase, annually, based on the
change in the Consumer Price Index, according to a formula
specifi ed in the ordinance. A complete list of tax rates is included

in the tax ordinance.

Measure K would also change how taxes are calculated and
collected. With respect to the warehousing tax, it would eliminate
a distinction made between square footage at main and "offsite"
locations, applying the same rate structure to each location.

Contractors could opt to pay their taxes quarterly rather than
annually. Measure K would also clarify the methodology for
taxing businesses that conduct both warehousing and some other
business at a single site by requiring that such businesses pay both
a tax based on square footage (for warehousing operations), and a
tax based on employees (for other operations), and that square
footage and employees be apportioned for tax purposes among the
two types of businesses. It would formalize the City's existing
practice of not treating the leasing of real property by its owner as
a business and make several other miscellaneous clarifi cations.

Proceeds of the business license tax are, and would continue to
be, placed in the City's general fund and available for any
municipal purpose. Business license taxes collected by the City
for 2011 totaled $1.3 million. If Measure K is approved, City staff
estimates that the business license tax will yield $5.7 million
annually. The new rates, if approved, would go into effect January
1,2014.

Arguments For Measure K

Vernon is a great place to live. Among the fi ve of us, we have a combined total of 140 years residing here;
raising our families and supporting our community.

The City of Vernon has one of the best Police Departments in all of Southern California: our Fire
Department is second to none and, Vernon Light and Power has one of the best customer service ratings in
the industry.

We can all feel safe and secure knowing that our Fire, Police and Utility Departments are located right
here in Vernon and are on duty to serve us 24 hours a day, seven days a week..

Providing these outstanding governmental services costs money. Fortunately we have about 1800 business
which call Vernon home and they pay for more than 99% of the cost of running the City, as they utilize
more than 99% of the services provided.

For many years, Vernon's General Fund has spent more than it takes in and we have been working
tirelessly to reduce costs without any loss of service to the residents or businesses.

In addition, we have been working with the Vernon business community to increase revenues. After
months and months of working together, we have fi nally found the answer.

The solution to our General Fund deficit is contained in Measures K, L & M, but we need your help.
Measure K, for example, raises the City' Business License Tax to a level similar to other cities and is

expected to generate about $4.5 million in new revenue each year. 100% of this tax will be paid by
businesses operating in Vernon.

But while Vernon businesses will pay the tax, State law requires that the residents ratify the ordinance.
That is why the fi ve of us are asking each resident to please

VOTE YES ON MEASURE K.

s/ William J. Davis, Mayor, City of Vernon
s/ Richard J. Maisano, Council Member
s/ Michael Ybarra, Council Member
s/ W. Michael McCormick, Mayor Pro-Tern
s/ Luz Martinez, Council Member

(No arguments against Measure K were submitted)

Los Angeles Home Page II Statewide Links II About Smart Voter II Feedback

Created: May 29,2013 15:24 PDT
Smart Voter <http://www.smartvoter.org/>

Copyright © League of Women Voters of California Education Fund ://cavotes

The League of Women Voters neither supports nor opposes candidates for public office or political parties.