Sample Ballot

& Voter’s Pamphlet

STATE SENATE DISTRICT 16
SPECIAL GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, JULY 23,2013

Last day to register to vote in this election:

JULY 8,2013

For Voting Information Call 600-8683 or Toll Free 1-800-742-1011
www.co.fresno.ca.usorwww.sos.ca.gov

POLLS OPEN AT 7:00 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8:00 P.M.

IF VOTING BY MAIL, YOUR VOTED BALLOT MUST BE RECEIVED BY FRESNO COUNTY
ELECTION OFFICIALS NO LATER THAN 8:00 P.M. ON ELECTION DAY.

Compiled by Brandi L. Orth
Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters

VOTE	Location on

HERE	back cover

VOTE	Vea	la

AQUI portada posterior

Boleta de Muestra

y Folleto del Elector

ELECCION GENERAL ESPECIAL
PARA EL DISTRITO 16 DEL SENADO
MARTES, 23 DE JULIO DEL 2013

El plazo para registrarse para votar en esta eleccion vence:
EL DIA8DE JULIO DEL 2013

Para information sobre el proceso de votacion,
favor de llamar al telefono 600-8683 o sin cargo al 1-800-742-1011

LAS URNAS ABREN A LAS 7:00 A.M. CIERRAN A LAS 8:00 P.M.

SI USTED VOTA POR CORREO, SU BOLETA VOTADA DEBE SER RECIBIDA POR
LOS OFICIALES DE ELECCIONES DEL CONDADO DE FRESNO A MAS TARDAR A
LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE DEL DIA DE LA ELECCION.

Compilada por Brandi L. Orth, Oficial del Registro Civil/Registradora de Electores
del Condado de Fresno.

OFFICIAL BALLOT / BOLETA OFICIAL

SENATE DISTRICT 16 SPECIAL GENERAL ELECTION, JULY 23, 2013, FRESNO COUNTY
ELECCION GENERAL ESPECIAL PARA EL DISTRITO 16 DEL SENADO, 23 DE JULIO DEL 2013, CONDADO DE FRESNO

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS: You must use a black pen, blue pen or No. 2 pencil to completely fill in the oval to the left of your choice. Fill
in the whole oval, or your vote may not be counted.

INSTRUCCIONES AL ELECTOR: Utilice usted una pluma o boligrafo de tinta negra o azul, o bien un lapiz No. 2, para llenar
completamente el ovalo al lado izquierdo de su preferencia. Llene el ovalo completamente, para que su voto sea contado con seguridad.

Fill in oval like this: • Llene el ovalo asi: •

Voter-Nominated Office / Puesto Nominado por los Votantes

All voters, regardless of the party preference they disclosed upon registration, or refusal to disclose a party preference, may vote
for any candidate for a voter-nominated office. The party preference, if any, designated by a candidate is selected by the
candidate and is shown for the information of the voters only. It does not imply that the candidate is nominated or endorsed by
the party or that the party approves of the candidate.

Todos los votantes, sin importar la preferencia de partido que hayan revelado al inscribirse, o su negativa de revelar una
preferencia de partido, pueden votar por cualquier candidato a un cargo nominado por los votantes. La preferencia del partido, si
la hubiera, designada por un candidato es seleccionada por el candidato y se muestra solo para la informacion de los votantes.
No implica que el candidato este nominado ni ratificado por el partido ni que el partido apruebe al candidato._

STATE SENATOR / SENADOR ESTATAL

STATE SENATOR DISTRICT 16 / SENADOR ESTATAL, DISTRITO 16
Vote For One / Voto Por Uno

O LETICIA PEREZ	Party	Preference:	Democratic	/	Preferencia	Partido:	Democrata

County Supervisor / Supervisora del condado

O ANDY VIDAK	Party	Preference:	Republican	/	Preferencia	Partido:	Republicano

Farmer/Small Businessman / Agricultor/Pequeno empresario

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS / PROPUESTA SOMETIDA A LOS ELECTORES

CITY/CIUDAD

A. Shall Ordinance 13-01 be adopted to lower the commercial rate for utility users tax from 10% to 7.5% immediately, lower the
residential rate to 7.5% effective July 1, 2019, allow the City Council the ability to further lower the commercial rate on or after
July 1, 2019 upon making certain findings, and to remove the cap on City utility users taxes?

A. ^Debe adoptarse la Ordenanza 13-01 para disminuir inmediatamente la tasa comercial del impuesto a los usuarios de
servicios publicos de 10% a 7.5%, disminuir la tasa residencial a 7.5% con vigencia el 1 de julio de 2019, permitir que el Concejo
Municipal pueda disminuir posteriormente la tasa comercial a partir del 1 de julio de 2019 luego de realizar ciertas
determinaciones, y eliminar el tope en los impuestos a los usuarios de servicios publicos de la Ciudad?

OYES, SI
o NO, NO

B. Shall an ordinance be adopted to amend the City's Utility Users Tax in order to impose a 5% utility users tax on new
telecommunication technologies such as wireless and voice over internet services?

B. ^Debe adoptarse una ordenanza para enmendar el Impuesto a los Usuarios de Servicios Publicos de la Ciudad a fin de
imponer un impuesto a los usuarios de servicios publicos de 5% sobre las nuevas tecnologias de telecomunicaciones como
servicios inalambricos y de voz por internet?

O YES, SI
O NO, NO

FRONT Card 2 RptPct 517-10 "0000823A'

FR 002-005

CITY OF FIREBAUGH MEASURE B
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

“Shall an ordinance be adopted to amend the City’s Utility Users Tax in order to impose a 5% utility users tax on new telecommunication
technologies such as wireless and voice over internet services?

Yes or No”

ORDINANCE NO. 13-02

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FIREBAUGH
AMENDING CHAPTER 22.5 OF THE FIREBAUGH MUNICIPAL CODE TO IMPOSE
A 5% UTILITY USERS TAX ON WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES

The City Council of the City of Firebaugh does hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1. That section 22.5-1 of the Firebaugh Municipal Code, entitled “Definitions,” is amended to add a new subsection “j.” to read
as follows:

“j. Telephone communication services’ shall mean and include the transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio,
video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between, or among points, whether or not such information is transmitted through
interconnected service with the public switched network, whatever the technology used, whether such transmission, conveyance
or routing occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic, light wave, laser, microwave, radio wave (including, but not limited to, cellular service,
commercial mobile service, al communications service (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), and other types of al wireless service-
see 47 USCA § 332(e)(7)(C)(i)—regardless of radio spectrum used), switching facilities, satellite or any other technology now existing
or developed after the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and includes, without limitation, fiber optic, coaxial cable,
and wireless. The term ‘telephone communication services’ includes such transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal
Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data services that are functionally integrated
with telecommunications services. Telephone communication services’ include, but are not limited to, the following services regardless
of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed: central office and custom calling features (including but not
limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling), local number portability, text messaging, ancillary
telecommunication services, prepaid and post-paid telecommunications services (including but not limited to prepaid calling cards);
mobile telecommunications service; private telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers
designated by the Federal Communications Commission); and value-added non-voice data service. For purposes of this section,
'private telecommunication service’ means any dedicated telephone communications service that entities a user to exclusive or priority
use of communications channels. 'Telephone communication service’ does not include: internet access services to the extent they are
exempt from taxation under the Internet Tax Freedom Act, 47 U.S.C. 151 note; video programming services; and digital downloads, such
as downloads of books, music, ringtones, games and similar digital products.”

Section 2. That section 22.5-1 of the Firebaugh Municipal Code, entitled “Definitions,” is amended to add a new subsection “k.” to read
as follows:

“k. Ancillary telephone communication services’ shall mean services that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use
or enjoyment of telephone communication services including, but not limited to, the following:

1.	Services that link two or more participants of an audio or video conference call, including the provision of a telephone number.

2.	Services that separately state information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing statement.

3.	Services that provide telephone number information, and/or address information.

4.	Services offered in connection with one or more telephone communications services, which offer advanced calling features
that allow customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections.

5.	Services that enable customers to store, send or receive recorded messages.”

Section 3. That section 22.5-3A is added to Firebaugh Municipal Code, entitled to read as follows:

“22.5-3A Wireless Communication users’ tax.

a.	This section shall not apply to services subject to tax under section 22.5-3 and is not intended to create a double tax on any
telephone services. With regard to rate payers and services not subject to tax pursuant to section 22.5-3, there is hereby imposed
a tax upon every rate payer other than a telephone corporation who uses any international, interstate and/or intrastate telephone
communication services in the City. Interstate calls shall include calls to and from the District of Columbia or any U.S. territory. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) of the charges made for such telephone communication services. The
tax shall be collected from the service user by the telephone communication services supplier or its billing agent. To the extent allowed
by federal and state law, the tax on telephone communication services is intended to, and does, apply to all charges within the city’s
tax jurisdiction, such as charges billed to a telephone account having a situs in the city as permitted by the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act of 2000, 4 U.S.C. § 116 et seq. There are rebuttable presumptions that telephone communication services billed to a billing
or service address in the city are used, in whole or in part, within the city’s boundaries, and that such services are subject to taxation
under this chapter. There is also a rebuttable presumption that telephone communication services sold within the city that are not billed
to a billing address or provided to a primary physical location are used, in whole or in part, within the city’s boundaries and that such
services are subject to taxation under this chapter.

FMBE-1

FR 002-013

b.	The following shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section:

1. Charges for services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones; except that where such coin-operated tele-
phone service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee, plus any fixed monthly or
other periodic charge shall be included in the base for computing the amount of tax due; nor shall the term “telephone
communication services” include land mobile services or maritime mobile services as defined in § 2.1 of Title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations, as such section existed on October 1, 1967.

c.	The tax on telephone communication services imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the service
supplier. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the tax administrator on or before the last day of the following
month; and must be received by the tax administrator on or before that date.

d.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or
nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the telephone communication services if a non-taxable
service and a taxable service are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the service
supplier identifies non-taxable charges by verifiable data reflected in its books and records that are kept in the regular course of
business and consistently with generally accepted accounting principles. The service supplier has the burden of proving the proper
apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges.

e.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall not include charges for any type of service or equipment furnished by a
service supplier subject to public utility regulation during any period in which the same or similar services or equipment are also available
for sale or lease from s other than a service supplier subject to public utility regulation.

f.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telephone communication services subject to tax under this section, any
service user, upon proof to the tax administrator that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another American jurisdiction
on such telephone communication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax
legally imposed in such other American jurisdiction; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the city
under this section.

g.	The tax administrator may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to telephone communication service suppliers which
are subject to the tax collection requirements of this chapter administrative determinations identifying those telephone communication
services that are subject to the tax of subsection (a) above. The administrative determinations shall implement the intent of the city
council that the telephone users’ tax be imposed on any rate payer who initiates or receives high-quality voice communications without
regard to the type or kind of transmission media or technology that exists on the date the amendments to this section became effective or
which may be developed in the future. Such administrative rulings shall be consistent with legal nexus and laws pertaining to telephone
communications services and shall not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology, or increase an existing tax, except as
allowed by California Government Code § 53750(h)(2) and (h)(3) or other law. The tax administrator may consider state-wide interpretive
rules and guidelines promulgated by any government agency or association of government agencies as a factor in determining the
intent of voters adopting this section. To the extent that the tax administrator determines that the tax imposed under this section shall
not be collected in full for any period of time, such an administrative determination falls within the tax administrator’s discretion to settle
disputes. The tax administrator’s exercise of discretion, under this chapter does not constitute a change in taxing methodology for
purposes of Government Code § 53750(h), and the city does not waive or abrogate its right to collect the telephone users’ tax in full
as a result of issuing such administrative determinations and may suspend such determination and recommence collection of the tax
without additional voter approval. The administrative determination shall be consistent with and shall not impose a new tax or increase
an existing tax without voter approval.

h.	1. For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this section, “substantial nexus” and

“minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users
tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as that law may change from time to time. Any telephone
communication service (including VoIP) used by a with a service address in the city, which service is capable of terminating a
call to another on the general telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus” exists
or “minimum contacts” exist for purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this chapter.

2. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity in the city to be obligated to collect and remit the tax imposed
by this chapter if it does any of the following: maintains or has within the city, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a
place of business of any nature; solicits business in the city by employees, independent contractors, resellers, agents or other
representatives; solicits business in the city by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the
city or distributed from a location within the city; or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within
the city or through materials distributed in the city by means other than the United States mail.

Section 4. That section 22.5-14 is added to Firebaugh Municipal Code, entitled to read as follows:

“22.5-14 Effect of state and federal authorization.

To the extent that the city’s authorization to impose or collect any tax imposed under this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of
changes in state or federal law, no amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes,
and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the city’s authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed under
this chapter.”

Section 5. Amendment of Ordinance.

Chapter 22.5 of the Firebaugh Municipal Code as amended by this Ordinance may be repealed or amended by the City Council without
a vote of the people except as follows: as required by Proposition 218, any amendment to that chapter that increases the amount or rate
of tax beyond the levels authorized by this Ordinance may not take effect unless approved by a vote of the people. The City Council may
impose the taxes authorized by that chapter in any amount or rate which does not exceed the rate approved by the voters of the City.

FMBE-2

FR 002-014

Section 6. Severability.

If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction for any reason, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this ordinance shall nonetheless remain
in full force and effect. The People of the City of Firebaugh hereby declare that they would have adopted each section, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of
this Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the provisions of this Ordinance are severable.

Section 7. Majority Approval; Effective Date; Execution.

This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon and shall go into effect ten (10) days after
the vote is declared by the City Council. The City Clerk is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance where indicated
below.

The foregoing Ordinance No. 13-02 was introduced at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Firebaugh on the 4th
day of March, 2013, and was passed and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council on the 15th day of April, 2013.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

The City of Firebaugh has had a Utility Users Tax (UUT) of 10% in place for 25 years. A 10% UUT rate is applied to electricity, gas and
telephone bills for both commercial and residential accounts. This UUT dollar amount is added to a customer’s utility bill. Under the
existing UUT, the definition of telephone usage is outdated and does not include cellular phone usage and other such wireless telephone
communication services, and such services are not taxed.

If Measure B is approved, the existing UUT will be modified to add a new 5% UUT to telecommunication technologies such as cellular
phone, wireless and voice over internet services. Traditional telephone services (provided via landline) will continue to be taxed at the
existing UUT rates.

If Measure B does not pass, the previous rules governing UUT payments will still apply. All UUT revenues go to the City’s General Fund,
which has experienced severe losses in recent years. A significant majority of General Fund revenues pay for police and fire services.
Without these additional revenues, the future of these services is unknown.

s/ Laurie Avedisian
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The Firebaugh City Council urges citizens to vote YES for Measure B, which places a 5% utility users tax (UUT) on new telecommunication
technologies such as wireless and voice over Internet services. The City has had such a UUT on phone services (landlines) for 25
years. The current rate applicable to this landline, telephone service is 10%. Measure B simply applies the current tax (at a lower rate,
5%) to new technologies that did not exist when the UUT was first approved. All revenues would go to the City’s General Fund, which
predominantly supports Police and Fire services. The City’s General Fund revenues have been hit especially hard these past several
years and continued cutbacks could jeopardize safety services. Since Public Safety Services (police and fire) consume, by far, the
largest part of General Fund revenues, reductions in these revenues will have negative impact on these and other vital City services.

A YES VOTE ON MEASURE B IS A VOTE TO PROTECT VITAL CITY OF FIREBAUGH SERVICES.

s/ Marcia Sablan
Mayor City of Firebaugh

s/ Christopher DeFrancesco
Mayor Pro-Tern City of Firebaugh

s/ Craig Knight
Council Member City of Firebaugh

s/Alfred Valdez

Council Member City of Firebaugh

s/ Brady Jenkins
Council Member City of Firebaugh

NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED AGAINST THE MEASURE

FMBE-3

FR 002-015