City of Pacifica

Compiled by the Pacifica City Clerk Ms. Kathy O'Connell

Measure V

“Without raising the current 6.5% rate, and to fund fire protection; emergency services; police protection; Meals on Wheels and other
senior citizen services; street, sidewalk and pothole repair; and other essential services, shall an ordinance be adopted to amend the City
of Pacifica’s Utility Users Tax adding telecommunications services, requiring equal treatment regardless of technology used, maintaining
senior exemptions and adding independent citizens oversight, with all hinds staying in Pacifica and no funds for Sacramento?”

Full Text

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PACIFICA,
CALIFORNIA, AMENDING THE PACIFICA MUNICIPAL
CODE TO ADD CHAPTER 3-11A IMPOSING A UTILITY
USERS’ TAX ON TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES

WHEREAS, the City is experiencing an existing and
immediate funding crisis, which is the result of factors largely
outside of its control, including national economic trends,
decreases in revenue from existing taxes and fees, increases in
charges by the County of San Mateo, and unpredictable State
takeaways of local revenue; and

WHEREAS, the City has taken significant steps to
reduce its operational costs including: cutting service positions,
negotiating salary reductions with all staff members, reducing
pensions and benefits, and implementing cost saving and
efficiencies by consolidating services and eliminating unnecessary
overhead; and

WHEREAS, because of changes in State law,
particularly the approval of Propositions 62 and 218, the City has
very few means available for increasing General Fund revenue;
and

WHEREAS, if staff and service levels are further
reduced, the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of Pacifica
will be endangered, public safety standards will degrade, crime
and violence will increase, public facilities and property will not
be properly maintained, the community will not have adequate and
safe recreational opportunities, and businesses and families will be
discouraged from moving to, or remaining in, Pacifica; and

WHEREAS, because of that threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare, an emergency exists in the City, as the
term “emergency” is used in Article XIIIC. section 2(b) of the
California Constitution: and

WHEREAS, the City must immediately address that
emergency by ensuring that the City has the resources necessary to
preserve the public health, safety, and welfare; and

Sec. 3-11A.01
Sec. 3-11A.02
Sec. 3-11A.03
Sec. 3-11A.04
Sec. 3-11A.05
Sec. 3-11A.06

Sec. 3-11A.07
Sec. 3-11A.08

Sec. 3-11A.09
Sec. 3-11A.10
Sec. 3-11A.11
Sec. 3-11A.12

Sec. 3-11A.13

Sec. 3-11A.14

Sec. 3-11A.15
Sec. 3-11A.16
Sec. 3-11A.17
Sec. 3-11A.18
Sec. 3-11A.19
Sec. 3-11A.20
Sec. 3-11A.21

Sec. 3-11A.22
Sec. 3-11A.23
Sec. 3-11A.24
Sec. 3-11A.25

Sec. 3-11A.26

Short Title.

Authority and Purpose.

Definitions.

Telecommunications Users’ Tax.
Exemptions.

Bundling Taxable Items with Non-
taxable Items.

Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts.
Maximum	Tax Liability	for

Telecommunications Usage.

Duty to Collect—Procedures.
Collection Penalties—Service Suppliers.
Actions to Collect.

Deficiency	Determination	and

Assessment—Tax Application Errors.
Administrative Remedy—Non-Paying
Service Users.

Additional Powers and Duties of Tax
Administrator.

Records.

Refunds.

Appeals.

No Inj unction/Writ of Mandate.
Remedies Cumulative.

Notice of Changes to this Chapter.
Effect of State and Federal Reference/
Authorization.

Annual Audit and Public Report.
Citizens Oversight Committee.
Violations; Penalties.

Jurisdiction of the State Public
Utilities Commission.

Termination Date.

Sec. 3-11A.01 Short title.

This chapter shall be known as the “Telecommunication
Users’ Tax Law” of the City of Pacifica.

Sec. 3-11.02 Authority and Purpose.

WHEREAS, the identified emergency necessitates that
the City Council submit an essential City services temporary
funding measure in the form of a eight (8) year, six and one-half
percent (6.5%) utility users’ tax on telecommunications services,
to the voters of Pacifica at the November 5, 2013 election, even
though such an election would not be consolidated with a general
election for a member of the City Council; and

WHEREAS, Article XIIIC, section 2(b) of the California
Constitution permits the City, in an emergency situation declared
by a unanimous vote of the City Council to seek voter approval
for a general tax at an election that is not consolidated with an
election for a member of the City Council.

NOW, THEREFORE, the People of the City of Pacifica
do hereby ordain as follows:

Section 1:	Amendment of Municipal Code. Chapter 11A is

hereby added to Title 3 of the Pacifica Municipal Code to read in
its entirety as follows:

“Chapter 11A TELECOMMUNICATIONS
USERS’ TAX

This chapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of
Section 37100.5 of the Government Code of the State for
the purpose of providing general municipal revenues to be
used for general municipal purposes.

Sec. 3-11A.03 Definitions.

For the purposes of this chapter, unless otherwise apparent
from the context, certain words and phrases used in this
chapter shall have the meanings set forth in this Section.

(a)	“Ancillary telecommunication services” means
services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision, use, or enjoyment of telecommunications
services, including but not limited to the following
services:

1.	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary
service that links two (2) or more participants
of an audio or video conference call and may
include the provision of a telephone number.
Conference bridging service does not include the
telecommunications services used to reach the
________conference bridge.____________________________

2.	“Detailed telecommunications billing service”
means an ancillary service of separately stating
information pertaining to individual calls on a
customer’s billing statement.

3.	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service
of providing telephone number information, and/or
address information.

4.	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service
that is offered in connection with one or more
telecommunications services, which offers
advanced calling features that allow customers to
identify callers and to manage multiple calls and
call connections, including conference bridging
services.

5.	“Voicemail service” means an ancillary service
that enables the customer to store, send or receive
recorded messages. Voicemail service does not
include any vertical services that the customer may
be required to have in order to utilize the voicemail
service.

(b)	“Billing address” means the mailing address of
the service user where the service supplier submits
invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

(c)	“Business service use” shall have the meaning
ascribed thereto by Section 3-11.04(j) in Chapter 11
of this title.

(d)	“City” means the City of Pacifica.

(e)	“Due date” means the date specified in Section
3-11 A.04(F) of this chapter that the Tax Administrator
must receive the tax collected on telecommunications
imposed by this chapter.

(f)	“Mobile telecommunications service” has the
meaning and usage as set forth in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C.A.
Section 124) and the regulations thereunder.

(g)	“Month” means a calendar month.

(h)	“Paging service” means a “telecommunications
service” that provides transmission of coded radio
signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers;
such transmissions may include messages and/or
sounds.

(i)	“Person” means, without limitation, any natural
individual, firm, trust, common law trust, estate,
partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club,
joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability
company, corporation (including foreign, domestic,
and non-profit), municipal district or municipal
corporation (other than the City) cooperative, receiver,
trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court.

(j)	“Place of primary use” means the street address
representative of where the customer’s use of the
telecommunications service primarily occurs, which
must be the residential street address or the primary
business street address of the customer.

(k)	“Post-paid telecommunication service” means the
telecommunication service obtained by making a
payment on a communication-by-communication
basis either through the use of a credit card or payment
mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit

card, or debit card, or by charge made to a service
number which is not associated with the origination
or termination of the telecommunication service.

(l)	“Prepaid telecommunication service” means the
right to access telecommunication services, which
must be paid for in advance and which enables the
origination of communications using an access
number or authorization code, whether manually or
electronically dialed, and that is sold in predetermined
units or dollars of which the number declines with use
in a known amount.

(m)	“Private telecommunication service” means a
telecommunication service that entitles the customer
to exclusive or priority use of a communications
channel or group of channels between or among
termination points, regardless of the manner in which
such channel or channels are connected, and includes
switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and
any other associated services that are provided in
connection with the use of such channel or channels.
A communications channel is a physical or virtual path
of communications over which signals are transmitted
between or among customer channel termination
points (i.e., the location where the customer either
inputs or receives the communications).

(n)	“Service address” means either:

1.	The location of the service user’s
telecommunication equipment from which the
telecommunication originates or terminates,
regardless of where the telecommunication is billed
or paid; or,

2.	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is
unknown (e.g., mobile telecommunications service
or VoIP service), the service address means the
location of the service user’s place of primary use.

3.	For prepaid telecommunications service, “service
address” means the location associated with the
service number.

(o)	“Service supplier” means any entity or person,
including the City, that provides telecommunication
service to a user of such service within the City.

(p)	“Service user” means a person required to pay a tax
imposed under the provisions of this chapter.

(q)	“State” means the State of California.

(r)	“Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement” means
the multi-state agreement commonly known and
referred to as the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax
Agreement, as it is amended from time to time.

(s)	“Tax Administrator” means an employee of the City
of Pacifica designated by the City Manager.

(t)	“Telecommunications service” means the
transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data,
audio, video, or any other information or signals to
a point, or between or among points, whatever the
technology used. The term “telecommunications
services” includes such transmission, conveyance, or
routing in which computer processing applications are
used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content
for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether such services are referred to

as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are
classified by the Federal Communications Commission
as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/
or data services that are functionally integrated with
“telecommunication services.” “Telecommunications
services” include, but are not limited to the
following services, regardless of the manner or basis
on which such services are calculated or billed:
ancillary telecommunication services; intrastate,
interstate, and international telecommunication
services; mobile telecommunications service;
prepaid telecommunication service; post-
paid telecommunication service; private
telecommunication service; paging service; 800
service (or any other toll-free numbers designated
by the Federal Communications Commission); 900
service (or any other similar numbers designated by
the Federal Communications Commission for services
whereby subscribers who call in to pre-recorded
or live service). For the purposes of applying this
chapter, “telecommunications services” shall include
both “telecommunications services” and “ancillary
telecommunication services.”

(u)	“Telecommunications users’ tax” means the tax
imposed by Section 3-11A.04 of this chapter.

(v)	“VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol)” means the
digital process of making and receiving real-time voice
transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

(w)	“800 service” means a “telecommunications service”
that allows a caller to dial a toll-free number without
incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically
marketed under the name “800”, “855”, “866”, “877”,
and “888” toll-free calling, and any subsequent
numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission.

(x)	“900 service” means an inbound toll
“telecommunications service” purchased by a
subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to
call in to the subscriber’s prerecorded announcement
or live service. “900 service” does not include the
charge for collection services provided by the seller of
the “telecommunications services” to the subscriber,
or service or product sold by the subscriber to the
subscriber’s customer. The service is typically
marketed under the name “900” service, and any
subsequent numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission.

Sec. 3-11 A.04	Telecommunications users’ tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon
every person in the City using telecommunications. The
tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of six and
one-half percent (6.5%) of the charges made for such
services and shall be collected from the service user by the
telecommunications services supplier or its billing agent.
There is a rebuttable presumption that telecommunications
services, which are billed to a billing or service address in
the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City’s
boundaries, and such services are subject to taxation under
this chapter. If the billing address of the service user is
different from the service address, the service address of
the service user shall be used for purposes of imposing
the tax. As used in this section, the term “charges” shall
include the value of any other services, credits, property

of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by
the service user in exchange for the telecommunications
services.

B.	“Mobile Telecommunications Service”
shall be sourced in accordance with the sourcing rules
set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing
Act (4 U.S.C.A. Section 124) or any successor statute.
The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to
telecommunications service suppliers, which are subject
to the tax collection requirements of this chapter, sourcing
rules for the taxation of other telecommunications services,
including but not limited to post-paid telecommunications
services, prepaid telecommunications services, and private
telecommunications services, provided that such rules
are based upon custom and common practice that further
administrative efficiency and minimize multi-jurisdictional
taxation (e.g., Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement).

C.	Upon request from a telecommunications
service supplier, the Tax Administrator may issue and
disseminate to telecommunications service suppliers
which are subject to the tax collection requirements of
this chapter an administrative ruling identifying those
telecommunications services, or charges therefor, that are
subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection A of this
section.

D.	As used in this section, the term
“telecommunications services” shall include, but is
not limited to, charges for connection, reconnection,
termination, movement, or change of telecommunication
services; late payment fees; detailed billing; central office
and custom calling features (including but not limited to
call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-
way calling); voicemail and other messaging services;
directory assistance; access and line charges; universal
service charges; regulatory, administrative and other cost
recovery charges; local number portability charges; and
text and instant messaging. “Telecommunication services”
shall not include digital downloads that are not “ancillary
telecommunication services,” such as music, ring tones,
games, and similar digital products.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional
taxation of telecommunications services subject to tax
under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax
Administrator that the service user has previously paid the
same tax in another state or city on such communication
services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed
to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in
such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of
credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this
section.

F.	The tax on telecommunication services
imposed by this section shall be collected from the service
user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in
one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator,
and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the 20th day of the following month.

G.	Proceeds of the tax imposed by this
section shall be deposited in the general fund of the City
and be available for any legal purpose.

H.	Any unexpended proceeds raised by the
City pursuant to this section may be left in the general fund
and used in succeeding years for any legal purpose.

Sec. 3-11A.05	Exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as imposing a tax upon any person or service
when the imposition of such tax upon such person or
service would be in violation of a Federal or State statute,
the Constitution of the United States, or the Constitution of
the State.

B.	Any service user that is exempt from
the tax imposed by this chapter pursuant to subsection
A of this section shall file an application with the Tax
Administrator for an exemption; provided, however, this
requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a
State or Federal agency or subdivision with a commonly
recognized name for such service. Said application shall
be made upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator
and shall state those facts, declared under penalty of
perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption,
and shall include the names of all telecommunications
service suppliers serving that service user. If the Tax
Administrator determines the service supplier is entitled
to an exemption pursuant to subsection A, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the telecommunications service
suppliers to exempt the appropriate service user from the
telecommunications users’ tax. A service user that fails to
comply with this section shall not be entitled to a refund of
a telecommunications users’ tax collected and remitted to
the Tax Administrator from such service user as a result of
such noncompliance.

C.	Residential service users who have

reached the age of sixty-two (62) may apply to the Tax
Administrator for an exemption to the tax imposed by
this chapter. An application for such exemption shall
be filed upon an application form approved by the Tax
Administrator for such purpose. The application shall be
accompanied by adequate written documentation that the
applicant is sixty-two (62) years of age or older, is the
service user whose account is listed at the service address
for which the exemption is sought, and is personally
responsible for the payment of the telecommunications
service at the service address, and shall further include the
names of all telecommunications service suppliers serving
that service user. The Tax Administrator shall determine
whether the criteria of this subsection have been satisfied
and whether the exemption shall be granted. Upon
granting such an exemption, the Tax Administrator shall
notify the telecommunications service suppliers to exempt
the appropriate service user from the telecommunications
users’ tax.	If granted an exemption by the Tax

Administrator pursuant to this subsection, such service
user shall give the Tax Administrator timely written notice
of any change in telecommunications service suppliers so
that the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new
telecommunications service supplier of the service user’s
tax exempt status.

D.	Any service user granted an exemption
pursuant to this section shall notify the Tax Administrator
within ten (10) days of:

(i) any change in telecommunications
service suppliers so that the Tax
Administrator can properly notify
the new telecommunications service
supplier of the service user’s tax exempt
status; or

(ii) any change of address or any change
in fact or circumstance which might
disqualify that service user from
receiving an exemption from tax. If it
is determined that the service user is no
longer qualified, the Tax Administrator
shall give notice to the service suppliers
that they shall resume collection of
the tax commencing with the next
billing period. If the user is entitled to
exemption at a new address, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the service
suppliers of that fact.

E.	Any decision of the Tax Administrator
pursuant to this section may be appealed pursuant to Section
3-11 A. 17 of this chapter. Filing an application with the Tax
Administrator and appeal to the City Manager pursuant to
Section 3-11 A. 17 of this chapter is a prerequisite to a suit
thereon.

F.	It shall be a misdemeanor for any
person to knowingly receive the benefits of any exemption
provided for in this section when the basis for exemption
does not exist or ceases to exist.

G.	The Tax Administrator may at any time
require evidence of eligibility or continued eligibility of
a service user for any exemption. Such evidence may
include, without limitation, copies of business records,
pay stubs, letters or statements from the Social Security
Administration, copies of income tax returns, and other
evidence concerning the service user or members of his
or her household which may tend to prove or disprove
eligibility. Failure to provide sufficient evidence to establish
eligibility when requested by the Tax Administrator shall
be grounds for denial or discontinuance of the service
user’s exemption.

H.	No person shall be exempt from the
tax except as provided in this section. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply retroactively, and no refund
shall be made for any taxes paid prior to the issuance
and effective date of any exemption granted by the Tax
Administrator, nor shall any refund be made for any taxes
collected during any period in which an exemption from
the Tax Administrator was not in effect or had lapsed by
failure to apply for renewal.

Sec. 3-11A.06 Bundling taxable items with non-
taxable items.

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and
not separately stated from taxable service charges on the
customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined
charge is subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies,
by reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of
the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable
through the service supplier’s books and records kept in
the regular course of business, and in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and not created
and maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has
the burden of proving the proper apportionment of taxable
and non-taxable charges. If the service supplier offers a
combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the
charges are separately stated, then for taxation purposes,
the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services
shall be based on its books and records kept in the regular
course of business and in accordance with generally

accepted accounting principles, and not created and
maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the
burden of proving the proper valuation of the taxable and
non-taxable services.

Sec. 3-11A.07 Substantial nexus/minimum contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing
a duty to collect and remit a tax under this chapter,
“substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection
and/or remittance of the communication users’ tax to the
fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as it
may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or
by statutory enactment. Any telecommunications service
(including VoIP) used by a person with a service address
in the City, which service is capable of terminating a call
to another person on the general telephone network, shall
be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial
nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes of imposing
a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax,
under this chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to
have sufficient activity in the City for tax collection and
remittance purposes if its activities include, but are not
limited to, any of the following: maintains or has within the
City, directly or through an agent, affiliate, or subsidiary,
a place of business of any nature; solicits business in the
City by employees, independent contractors, resellers,
agents or other representatives; solicits business in the
City on a continuous, regular, seasonal or systematic basis
by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a
transmitter with the City or distributed from a location with
the City; or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals
printed and published within the City or through materials
distributed in the City by means other than the United
States mail; or if there are activities performed in the City
on behalf of the service supplier that are significantly
associated with the service supplier’s ability to establish
and maintain a market in the City for the provision of
communication services that are subject to a tax under this
chapter.

Sec. 3-11A.08 Maximum Tax Liability for
Telecommunications Usage.

The maximum total of the taxes any business service user
for any service address shall pay under Section 3-11A.04
of this chapter, when combined with the total of the taxes
paid under Section 3-11.06 ad 3-11.07 of Chapter 11 of
this title, shall not exceed the cap of five hundred dollars
($500.00) established by Section 3-11.08 of Chapter llof
this title. Said cap shall be administered in accordance
with and shall be subject to the provisions set forth in said
Section 3-11.08.

Sec. 3-11A.09	Duty to collect—Procedures.

A.	Collection by Service Suppliers.

The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit the
taxes imposed by the provisions of this chapter shall be
performed as follows:

1.	The tax shall be collected by service
suppliers insofar as practicable at the same time as, and
along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance
with the regular billing practice of the service supplier.
Except in those cases where a service user pays the full
amount of such charges but does not pay any portion of
the taxes imposed by this chapter, or where a service user
has notified a service supplier that he is refusing to pay a

tax imposed by this chapter which such service supplier
is required to collect, if the amount paid by a service user
to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the
charge and tax which has accrued for that billing period, a
proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be
deemed to have been paid. In those cases where a service
user has notified the service supplier of refusal to pay the
tax imposed on said charges, Section 3-11 A. 13 shall apply.

2. The duty of a service supplier to collect
the tax from a service user shall commence with the
beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the
service user on or after the operative date of this chapter.
Where a service user receives more than one billing, one
or more being for different periods than another, the duty
to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

B.	Filing Return and Payment. Each
service supplier required by this chapter to remit a tax
shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms
approved by the Tax Administrator, on or before the due
date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included
with the return and filed with the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator is authorized to require such additional
information as deemed necessary to determine if the tax is
being levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with
this chapter. Returns are due immediately upon cessation
of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and
Tax Code Section 7284.6, the Tax Administrator, and its
agents, shall maintain such filing returns as confidential
information that is exempt from the disclosure provisions
of the Public Records Act.

Sec. 3-11A.10	Collection penalties—Service suppliers.

A.	Taxes collected from a service user
are delinquent if not received by the Tax Administrator
on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on
a weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received
by the Tax Administrator on the first regular working
day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct
deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other
similar methods of electronically exchanging monies
between financial accounts, made by a service supplier
in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection
shall be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or
before the due date, and the transfer settles into the City’s
account on the following business day. Any tax billed to a
service user but not paid to the service supplier shall not be
deemed an obligation of the service supplier unless such
tax is thereafter paid to the service supplier.

B.	In addition to remitting the amount of
the tax, any service supplier who fails to collect the tax (by
failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services
or charges on the customer’s billing) or fails to remit the
tax collected on or before the due date, shall pay a penalty
for such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of fifteen
percent (15%) of the total tax that is delinquent or deficient
in the remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate of one
percent (1.0%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

C.	If the Tax Administrator determines that
the non-payment by any service supplier of any remittance
due under this chapter is due to fraud or gross negligence
in reporting or remitting, a penalty of twenty-five percent
(25%) of the amount of the tax collected and/or required

to be remitted shall be added thereto in addition to the
penalties stated above.

D.	For collection purposes only, every
penalty imposed and all interest that is accrued under the
provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax
herein required to be paid.

E.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax
Administrator may, in his or her discretion, modify the
due dates of this chapter to be consistent with any uniform
standards or procedures that are mutually agreed upon
by other public agencies imposing a utility users tax, or
otherwise legally established, to create a central payment
location or mechanism.

Sec. 3-11 A. 11	Actions to collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user
under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a
debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax
collected from a service user which has not been remitted
to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to
the City by the person required to collect and remit the
tax and shall no longer be a debt of the service user. Any
person owing money to the City under the provisions of
this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name
of the City for the recovery of such amount, including
penalties and interest as provided for in this chapter,
along with any collection costs incurred by the City as
a result of the person’s noncompliance with this chapter,
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees.
Any tax required to be collected by a service supplier or
owed by a service user is an unsecured priority excise
tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8)(C).
Service suppliers who seek to collect charges for service
in bankruptcy proceedings shall also include in any such
claim the amount of taxes due the City for those services,
unless the Tax Administrator determines that such duty is
in conflict with any federal or state law, rule, or regulations
or that such action would be administratively impractical.

Sec. 3-11A.12 Deficiency determination and
assessment—Tax application errors.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall make a
deficiency determination if he or she determines that any
person required to pay or collect taxes pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter has failed to pay, collect, and/or
remit the proper amount of tax by improperly applying or
by failing to apply the tax to one or more taxable services
or charges. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax
Administrator institute proceedings under this section if, in
the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection
or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

B.	The Tax Administrator shall mail a
notice of such deficiency determination to the person
required to pay or remit the tax, which notice shall refer
briefly to the amount of the taxes owed, plus interest at
the rate of one percent (1.0%) per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which
the tax should have been received by the City. Within
fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of service of
such notice, the person may file a written request with the
Tax Administrator for a hearing on the matter.

C.	If the person fails to request a hearing
within the prescribed time period, the amount of the
deficiency determination shall become a final assessment,

and shall immediately be due and owing to the City. If
the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator
shall cause the matter to be set for hearing, which shall
be scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt of the
written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place
of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator
to such person at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the
hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator desires said person
to produce specific records at such hearing, such notice
may designate the records requested to be produced.

D.	At the time fixed for the hearing, the
Tax Administrator shall hear all relevant testimony and
evidence, including that of any other interested parties.
At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing
may be continued from time to time for the purpose of
allowing the presentation of additional evidence. Within
a reasonable time following the conclusion of the hearing,
the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or
non-assessment), thereafter, by confirming, modifying or
rejecting the original deficiency determination, and shall
mail a copy of such final assessment to person owing the
tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed
pursuant to Section 3-11A.17 of this chapter. Filing an
application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the
City Manager pursuant to Section 3-11A.17 ofthis chapter
is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

E.	Payment of the final assessment
shall become delinquent if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the 30th day following the date
of receipt of the notice of final assessment. The penalty
for delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on the total
amount of the assessment, along with interest at the rate
of one percent (1.0%) per month, or any fraction thereof,
on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the
date of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of
limitations regarding a claim by the City seeking payment
of a tax assessed under this chapter shall commence from
the date of delinquency as provided in this subsection E.

F.	All notices under this section may be
sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall be deemed
received on the third calendar day following the date of
mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

Sec. 3-11 A. 13	Administrative remedy—Non-paying

service users.

A.	The service supplier shall provide the
City with the names and addresses of all service users
and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions
of this chapter, and shall submit such list to the Tax
Administrator with each monthly tax return. Whenever
the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by the
service user from the amounts remitted to a person required
to collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems
it in the best interest of the City, he or she may relieve
such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under
this chapter from certain named service users for specific
billing periods. To the extent the service user has failed
to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of three (3) or
more billing periods, the service supplier shall be relieved
of the obligation to collect taxes due. The service supplier
shall provide the City with the names and addresses of
such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under
the provisions of this chapter. Nothing herein shall require
that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this

section if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the
cost of collection or enforcement likely outweighs the tax
benefit.

B.	In addition to the tax owed, the service
user shall pay a delinquency penalty at the rate of fifteen
percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay
interest at the rate of one percent (1.0%) per month, or
any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the due date, until paid.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the
non-paying service user that the Tax Administrator has
assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for
the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes,
including penalties and interest. The notice shall be served
on the service user by personal delivery or by deposit
of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the service user at the address to which billing
was made by the person required to collect the tax; or,
should the service user have a change of address, to his or
her last known address.

D.	If the service user fails to remit the tax
to the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15) days from
the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the
Tax Administrator may impose an additional penalty of
twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the total tax
owed and the penalty set forth in the notice, but not less
than ten dollars ($10.00).

E.	Every penalty imposed upon a service
user pursuant to this section, and such interest as accrues
thereon, shall become a part of the tax required to be paid.

Sec. 3-11A.14 Additional powers and duties of the
Tax Administrator.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall have the
power and duty, and is hereby directed, to enforce each
and all of the provisions of this chapter.

B.	The Tax Administrator shall have
the power to adopt administrative rules and regulations
consistent with provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out, and
enforcing the payment, collection, and remittance of
the taxes imposed by this chapter. The administrative
rules and regulations shall not impose a new tax, revise
an existing tax methodology as stated in this section, or
increase an existing tax, except as allowed by California
Government Code Section 53750(h)(2). A copy of such
administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in
the Tax Administrator’s office. To the extent that the Tax
Administrator determines that the tax imposed under this
chapter shall not be collected in full for any period of time
from any particular service supplier or service user, that
determination shall be considered an exercise of the Tax
Administrator’s discretion to settle disputes and shall not
constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes
of Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise. The
Tax Administrator is not authorized to amend the City’s
methodology for purposes of Government Code Section
53750, and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability
to impose the telecommunications users’ tax in full as a
result of promulgating administrative rules or entering into
agreements.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good
cause, the Tax Administrator may make administrative

agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from
the strict requirements of this chapter and thereby: (1)
conform to the billing procedures of a particular service
supplier so long as said agreements result in the collection
of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and
scope of this chapter; or (2) to avoid a hardship where the
administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly
outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement
shall be on file and available for public examination in the
office of the Tax Administrator, and are voidable by the
Tax Administrator or the City at any time.

D.	The Tax Administrator may conduct an
audit, to ensure proper compliance with the requirements of
this chapter, of any person required to collect and/or remit
a tax pursuant to this chapter. The Tax Administrator shall
notify said person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In
the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the
audit period of review shall not exceed a period of three
(3) years next preceding the date of receipt of the written
notice by said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon
completion of the audit, the Tax Administrator may make
a deficiency determination pursuant to Section 3-11 A. 12
of this chapter for all taxes (and applicable penalties and
interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced by information
provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If said
person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records
to enable the Tax Administrator to verify compliance with
this chapter, the Tax Administrator is authorized to make
a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable
estimate shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of
correctness.

E.	Upon receipt of a written request of a
taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax Administrator may
extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant
to this chapter for a period of not to exceed 45 days,
provided that the time for filing the required statement
has not already passed when the request is received. No
penalty for delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of
such extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension
at the rate of one percent (1.0%) per month, prorated for
any portion thereof.

F.	The Tax Administrator shall determine
the eligibility of any person who asserts a right to
exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this
chapter.

G.	Notwithstanding any provision in this
chapter to the contrary, the Tax Administrator may waive
any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required to
collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed
by this chapter if the non-collection occurred in good faith.
In determining whether the non-collection was in good
faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into consideration
industry practice or other precedents.

Sec. 3-11A.15 Records.

A.	It shall be the duty of every service
supplier required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax
imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period
of at least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary
to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have
been liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax
Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall
have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

B.	The City, acting through the City

Council, may issue an administrative subpoena to compel
a person to deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of
all records deemed necessary by the Tax Administrator
to establish compliance with this chapter, including the
delivery of records in a common electronic format on readily
available media if such records are kept electronically by
the person in the usual and ordinary course of business.
As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to
the Tax Administrator on or before the due date provided
in the administrative subpoena, such person may provide
access to such records outside the City on or before the due
date, provided that such person shall reimburse the City
for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to
inspect those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and
other similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or
hourly wages of those persons designated by the City to
conduct the inspection.

C.	The Tax Administrator is authorized
to execute a nondisclosure agreement approved by the
City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer
information pursuant to California Revenue and Tax Code
Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.

D.	If a service supplier uses a billing agent
or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the
service supplier shall: (1) provide to the Tax Administrator
the name, address and telephone number of each billing
agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the
service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to
the City; and (2) upon request of the Tax Administrator,
deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or
records in the possession of such billing agent or billing
aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator,
is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

E.	If any person subject to record-
keeping under this section unreasonably denies the Tax
Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce
the information requested in an administrative subpoena
within the time specified, then the Tax Administrator may
impose a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00) on such
person for each day following: (1) the initial date that the
person refuses to provide such access; or (2) the due date
for production of records as set forth in the administrative
subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
penalty imposed under this chapter.

Sec. 3-11A.16	Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax has been
overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously
or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator
under this chapter from a person or service supplier, it may
be refunded as provided in this section as follows:

A.	Written Claim for Refund. Any person
seeking a refund of over-payment of taxes, interest or
penalties imposed by this chapter and collected by the City
must file a claim with the City Clerk pursuant to Chapter
3-16 of this Code.

B.	Refunds to Service Suppliers. A service
supplier may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted an amount overpaid, paid more
than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received
when it is established that the person from whom the tax
has been collected was not a service user.

C.	Refunds to Service Users. Any service
user may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid, paid more
than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the City by filing a claim in the manner provided in
subsection A of this section, but only when the service user
having paid the tax to the service supplier establishes to
the satisfaction of the Tax Administrator that the service
user has been unable to obtain a refund from the service
supplier who collected the tax.

D.	Proof Required. No person shall be
entitled to a refund or a credit pursuant to this section
unless it first clearly establishes, to the satisfaction of the
Tax Administrator, the right to the credit by written records
showing entitlement thereto. Under no circumstances shall
an overpayment taken as a credit against an underpayment
pursuant to this subsection qualify a service supplier for a
refund to which it would not otherwise be entitled under
the one (1) year written claim requirement of Chapter
3-16.

Sec. 3-11A.17 Appeals.

A.	Any person directly aggrieved by a
decision of the Tax Administrator may appeal that decision
in accordance with the procedure set forth in this section. A
“decision” of the Tax Administrator includes any decision,
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling made
pursuant to this chapter. This section does not apply to a
decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3 -11 A. 16.
Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action
on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

B.	The City Manager shall select a hearing
officer to hear all appeals filed pursuant to this section. A
written notice of appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk,
or his or her designee, within fourteen (14) days of the
decision being appealed.

C.	Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the
City Clerk, or his or her designee, shall schedule a hearing
before a hearing officer selected by the City Manager
within thirty (30) days from the receipt of the appeal. The
appealing party shall be served with written notice of the
time and place of the hearing at least five (5) calendar days
prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from
time to time upon mutual consent of the parties and the
hearing officer.

D.	Upon the conclusion of the hearing,
the hearing officer shall consider any relevant evidence
presented at the hearing and shall issue a written
determination upholding, modifying or reversing the
decision from which the appeal is taken. The hearing
officer’s determination shall be given within thirty (30)
days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the
reasons therefor. The notice shall specify that the decision
is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be
filed within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision.

E.	All notices under this section may be
sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall be deemed
received on the third calendar day following the date of
mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

Sec. 3-11 A.18 No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal
or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or
proceeding in any court against this City or against any

City of Pacifica

Compiled by the Pacifica City Clerk Ms. Kathy O'Connell

Sec. 3-11A.23 Citizens Oversight Committee.

officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under
this chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected and/or remitted.

Sec. 3-11A.19 Remedies Cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this chapter or
which are available under any other provision of law or
equity, including but not limited to the California False
Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.)
and the California Unfair Practices Act (Business and
Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative.
The use of one or more remedies by the City shall not bar
the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing
the provisions of this chapter.

Sec. 3-11 A.20 Notice of Changes to this Chapter.

If a tax under this chapter is added repealed,
increased, reduced, or the tax base is changed, the Tax
Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of
California Public Utilities Code Section 799.

Sec. 3-11A.21 Effect of State and Federal Reference/
Authorization.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any
reference to a State or Federal statute in this chapter
shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time
to time, provided that such reference to a statute herein
shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or
to any subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a
state or federal agency or court of law with the duty to
interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or
change of interpretation would require voter approval
under California law, or to the extent that such change
would result in a tax decrease (as a result of excluding all
or a part of a communication service, or charge therefor,
from taxation). Only to the extent voter approval would
otherwise be required or a tax decrease would result, the
prior version of the statute (or interpretation) shall remain
applicable; for any application or situation that would
not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax,
provisions of the amended statute (or new interpretation)
shall be applicable to the maximum possible extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to
collect or impose any tax imposed under this chapter
is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or
federal law, no amendment or modification of this chapter
shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and
the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of
the authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed
under this chapter.

Sec. 3-11A.22 Annual Audit and Public Report.

Annually the City Council retains an independent
auditor to conduct an audit of and provide audited financial
statements for all of the City financial activities. The
auditor shall include an accounting of the revenue received
from the telecommunications users’ tax and expenditures
thereof in the audited financial statements. The auditor’s
report shall be presented to the Council and made
available to the public. Additionally, the City Manager
shall annually prepare and present to the City Council
and the public a report in conjunction with the audit that
reviews the status and performance of the programs and
services funded wholly or partially with proceeds of the
telecommunications users’ tax.

The City Council shall appoint a Citizens
Oversight Committee to review the receipt of revenue and
to ensure that the tax revenue authorized by this chapter is
expended within the City. The City Council shall adopt a
resolution establishing the terms, composition and duties
of the committee.

Sec. 3-11A.24 Violations; Penalties.

Any person violating any provision of this
chapter, or any person willfully refusing to pay any tax
required by this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable therefor by a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment in the
County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.

Sec. 3-11A.25 Jurisdiction of State Public Utilities
Commission.

Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to
conflict with the applicable rules, regulations, and tariffs
of any service supplier subject to the jurisdiction of the
Public Utilities Commission of the State. In the event of
any conflict, the provisions of such rules, regulations, and
tariffs shall control.

Sec. 3-11A.26 Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
ordinance shall expire on the eighth anniversary of the
operative date, unless extended by a majority of the voters
of the City.”

Section 2: Severability. If any part of this Ordinance is held to
be invalid for any reason, such decision will not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this Ordinance, and the City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed the remainder of this
Ordinance if such invalid portion thereof had been deleted.

Section 3: Effective Date. This ordinance relates to the levying
and collection of the City telecommunications users’ tax and, if
approved by the electorate of the City of Pacifica at the Special
Municipal Election of November 5, 2013, shall take effect
immediately upon the declaration of the results of that election by
the City Council.

Section 4:	Amendment	or	Repeal.	Chapter 3-11A of the

Municipal Code may be repealed or amended by the City Council
without a vote of the people. However, as required by Article
XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required
for any amendment that would increase the rate of any tax levied
pursuant to this Ordinance. The People of the City of Pacifica
affirm that the following actions shall not constitute an increase of
the rate of a tax:

(1)	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is
no higher than that set by this Ordinance, if the City
Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

(2)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology
of the tax, or any definition applicable to the tax, so
long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary
to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not
inconsistent with the language of this Ordinance;

(3)	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt
or excepted from the tax or the discontinuation
of any such exemption or exception (other than
the discontinuation of an exemption or exception
specifically set forth in this Ordinance); and

City of Pacifica

Compiled by the Pacifica City Clerk Ms. Kathy O'Connell

(4) The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance,
even if the City had, for some period of time, failed to
collect the tax.

Section 5: Publication. The City Clerk of the City of Pacifica is
hereby directed to cause the following summary of the ordinance
to be published in a newspaper of general circulation, published
and circulated in the City of Pacifica:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance
adopts a six and one-half percent (6.5%) utility users’
tax on telecommunications services within the City of
Pacifica. The tax shall terminate automatically upon the
eight anniversary of the City beginning to collect it, un less
extended by the voters.

Section 6: Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to
the adoption of this Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing
where indicated below.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this____________day of November, 2013,

by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Len Stone, Mayor

ATTEST:

Kathy O’Connell, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Michelle Marchetta Kenyon, City Attorney

Impartial Analysis of Measure V

State law authorizes the City Council of the City of Pacifica
to levy a Utility Users’ Tax (“UUT”) on the users of utilities
in the City if the ordinance proposing the tax is approved by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the City Council and the tax
is approved by a majority vote of the City’s voters. On July 8,
2013, the City Council by unanimous vote approved an ordinance
to amend the Pacifica Municipal Code to establish a UUT on
telecommunications services in the City for a period of eight years
to raise revenue for general City purposes. The City Council also
directed that this Measure V be placed on the ballot for majority
voter approval.

Pursuant to Chapter 3.11 of the Pacifica Municipal Code, City
residents and businesses currently pay a utility users’ tax on
electricity and gas services (the “Existing UUT”). The tax rate for
the Existing UUT is 6.5% of the amount charged for each of these
services.

As proposed by Measure V, the UUT on telecommunications
services will include the following tax rate, exemption and cap
on certain users: 6.5% tax rate; an exemption for senior citizens
(residential service users who have reached the age of 62); and
a $500 cap for business service users. These provisions are the
same as are set forth currently in the Existing UUT. Measure V
also includes an annual audit and public report requirement and
provides for the appointment of a Citizen Oversight Committee
to ensure that the tax is being collected and remitted properly and
that the revenue raised is spent in accordance with law. Except
where precluded by federal law, the proposed measure would
apply to all types of telecommunication, video communication,
text messaging, and paging services in addition to the telephone,
cellular telephone and voice over internet protocol (“VOIP”)
services. Measure V would not apply to cable, internet access,
internet content, or digital downloads of games, ringtones, music,
and books.

If adopted, Measure V would automatically expire eight years after
becoming operative. Measure V cannot be extended, nor can the
tax rate be increased, without voter approval.

Measure V is considered a general tax under state law. The
revenues received from the tax will be placed in the City’s general
fund and may be used in any manner authorized by law and as
directed by the City Council. All monies collected could be used
by the City to pay for general City operations and programs such
as fire and police services, street and sidewalk maintenance, and
support for senior citizen services (such as Meals on Wheels).

A yes vote on Measure V would impose a utility users’ tax
on telecommunications services in Pacifica at a rate of 6.5%.
Collection of the new tax would commence approximately 30
days following certification of the election results. A no vote on
Measure V would reject the proposed tax. This measure requires a
simple majority vote (i.e. 50 percent plus one) to pass.

/s/ Michelle Marchetta Kenyon

City Attorney

City of Pacifica

City of Pacifica

Compiled by the Pacifica City Clerk Ms. Kathy O'Connell
Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument in Favor of Measure V	Rebuttal	to	Argument	in	Favor	of	Measure	V

• Don’t be deceived - THIS IS A 60% TAX INCREASE

Vote Yes on Measure V to protect police and fire services, 911
emergency response, and keep our neighborhoods, schools, parks
and beaches safe. These services are part of what makes Pacifica a
safe and desirable place to live.

To ensure Measure V will benefit Pacifica, all funds will stay
in our community—the state cannot take away a single penny.
Citizen oversight and annual audits ensure all funds are used
appropriately to protect important city services for local residents.

Sacramento has taken $26 million away from Pacifica since 1997.
These “takebacks” have harmed the city’s ability to maintain the
public safety and health services that Pacificans depend on.

We can’t rely on the state to protect the services that make Pacifica
one of the 100 safest cities in the United States—that is why
Measure V is essential.

Measure V will update our city’s existing UUT to add
telecommunications services—without increasing the current rate.

Measure V will provide locally-controlled funding for critical
services, including:

•	Fire protection and 911 emergency response

•	Police protection

•	Senior citizen support, including Meals on Wheels

•	Street and sidewalk maintenance, including pothole repair

•	Food and shelter assistance for struggling residents

Measure V continues the existing exemption for senior citizens.

Measure V includes strict fiscal accountability provisions.

•	All funds will stay in Pacifica and cannot be taken away by the
state

•	Measure V expires in 8 years and cannot be extended, increased
or changed without voter approval

•	Independent citizens’ oversight, mandatory third-party audits
and yearly reports to the community are required to ensure
funds are spent on priority city services

Please join Pacifica community leaders, business owners and
senior citizens to protect the vital services that keep our residents
safe and healthy—vote Yes on V.

/s/	Linda L. Jonas  38 year Resident of Pacifica	August 6, 2013
/s/	Dave Bertini  Former Pacifica Police Captain	August 6, 2013
/s/	Bruce M Banco	August 12, 2013
	Chair - Pacifica Financing City Services Task Force	
/s/	Allan Hale  Retired 52 year Pacifica resident	August 14, 2013
/s/	Suzan Getchell-Wallace  Business Owner	August 13. 2013

•	Pacifica has a balanced budget, a $1.4 million surplus,
and enough money to pay for consultants, conduct voter
surveys, send us campaign mailers and call a costly special
election

•	Growing our tax base, not new taxes, is a better way to
meet revenue needs

•	Don’t overlook all the tax overrides we already pay on our
property tax bills

•	This tax hits just residents and exempts visitors and is
unfair

•	$500 yearly cap for businesses. No cap for residents.

•	Exempting based solely on age while the truly needy are
forced to pay is unjust

•	Seniors - you are not automatically exempted - You have
to submit paperwork to apply

•	This is a new tax on an essential safety services - your
phones

•	None of the proposed revenue is guaranteed to go for
any of the lovely programs that Pacifica cites as if s
reason for raising our taxes

•	The supposed independent oversight committee’s only real
job would be to watch tax monies disappear into the City’s
General Fund. Council will spend the money as it chooses

•	The eight year duration of this tax is too long. Then they’ll
want it extended forever. There’s no temporary tax

•	Pacifica will never make overdue economies as long as it
thinks the voters can be fooled into taxing ourselves more

VOTE NO ON MEASURE V. THE FLAWED TAX AT THE WRONG TIME.	
/s/ Thomas Clifford August 24, 2013 Co-Chair, Pacflcans Against Higher Utility Taxes	
/s/ Karen Rosenstein  Business Owner	August 24, 2013
/s/ William “Leo” Leon  Concerned Citizen	August 24, 2013
/s/ Mary Catherine Neff  Retired teacher	August 24, 2013
/s/ Barbara Ash  Bus. Owner	August 24, 2013

City of Pacifica

Compiled by the Pacifica City Clerk Ms. Kathy O'Connell
Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument Against Measure V_____Rebuttal	to	Argument	Against	Measure	V

Here we go again - another tax increase on the ballot, this one
unnecessary and unfair.

We already pay extra taxes approved for the county, schools, city,
community colleges and the state. Is this where and how you ’d
choose to raise your taxes? What about our schools?

Pacifica’s Government always wants more money, threatening
us unless we approve taxes. Pacifica’s budget surplus is $1.4
million. The state is no longer taking it’s money. Rising property
values means more local revenue.

The City Council spent almost $60,000 on a costly special election,
expensive campaign mailers promoting the new tax, and another
outside consultant. That could have funded a needed economic
development coordinator.

We still pay what Pacifica’s web site describes as “excellent” and
‘generous” compensation. Eighty-six employees and some retirees
get over $100,000 a year. Instead of adjusting compensation to
match our tax base, Pacifica borrowed to pay it’s pension shortfall.

•	Many Pacificans are at the poverty level but are not exempt under
Measure V. Others are exempt based on age, not ability to pay.
This 60% tax increase hurts the single parents, unemployed,
large families and disabled veterans among us.

•	Only residents, not visitors would pay this tax.

•	Businesses are favored with a $500 annual cap. There is no cap
for residents.

•	This tax revenue would go into the General Fund and be spent
on salaries. No programs are protected. Pacifica has over-
promised what this tax can deliver.

•	Do you really think this would be a “temporary tax”?

Pacifica operates too much in secret, withholding information
from the public. It hires too many outside consultants. City
Council Subcommittees make the important decisions behind
closed doors. Has it earned your trust in higher taxes?

Join us, your neighbors of all political stripes, in voting NO on
unfair, unnecessary Measure V.

/s/	Thomas Clifford	August 13, 2013
	Co-Chair P.A.H.U.T.	
/s/	William “Leo” Leon	August 13, 2013
	Concerned Citizen	
/s/	Mary Catherine Neff	August 13, 2013
	Retired Teacher	
/s/	Barbara Ash	August 13, 2013
	Bus. Owner	
/s/	Karen Rosenstein	August 13, 2013

Business Owner

The argument against Measure V is simply not true.

We are Pacifica residents who reviewed the city budget. We care
about preserving fire and police protection, senior citizen services,
street repair and the future of Pacifica. We know the facts and are
voting Yes on V.

Pacifica needs Measure V.

There is no $1.4 million budget surplus.

Pacifica has balanced its budget by freezing employee salaries,
cutting pensions and benefits and laying off 33% of its staff. The
independent Financing City Services Task Force, comprising
a diverse group of Pacifica residents, carefully studied the
city budget and found there was no “fat” to cut. The group
recommended Measure V to protect community services.

Measure V is necessary now to avoid cuts to critical city services
threatened by new, imminent state takebacks.

Get the facts at www.CityofPacifica.org.

Measure V is the result of a transparent, public process,

including two city council meetings and a public hearing that
opponents attended on July 8, 2013. At this meeting, one of
the authors of the opposing argument made an official public
comment that it was “clear the city needs the money.”

Measure V is fiscally responsible and seniors are eligible for an
exemption.

Measure V would add less than $6 to an average phone bill,

and requires independent citizens’ oversight, mandatory audits and
yearly reports. Measure V isn’t permanent. It expires in 8 years
and cannot be extended without voter approval.

Pacificans deserve a vibrant, safe and desirable community.

Vote Yes on V.

www.SupportPacificasFuture.org

/s/	Eric Ruchames  Retired Police Sergeant	August 25, 2013
/s/	Kalimah Salahuddin  Former Pacifica Resource Ctr Client	August 25, 2013
/s/	Susan Vaterlaus  Planning Commissioner	August 26, 2013
/s/	Joseph Kell	August 26, 2013
	Member, Financing City Services Task Force	