Measure E

Parcel Tax
Campbell Union High School District

2/3 Approval Required

To support quality education in local high schools with funds that cannot be taken
by the State, including academic instruction in science, math, English, Advanced
Placement, art, music, technology, vocational courses; recruit/retain qualified
teachers; maintain small class sizes; and provide safe/clean schools; shall Campbell
Union High School District renew + with no tax increase + an existing $85 annual
parcel tax for 8 years, with exemptions for seniors and qualified disabled citizens,
independent fiscal oversight, and no administrator salaries?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to renew a qualified special tax of $85 per parcel on parcels
within the District for eight years.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote not to renew a qualified special tax of $85 per parcel on
parcels within the District for eight years.

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel

A school district, following notice and a public hearing, has authority to levy a
special tax upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on a proposal
pursuant to section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
sections 50075 et seq. of the California Government Code.

On November 4, 2008, the voters within the Campbell Union High School District
(District) approved the renewal of a special tax on parcels within the District in the
amount of $85 per parcel. The parcel tax will expire on June 30, 2015. The Board of
Trustees (Board) of the District proposes renewing this special tax for an additional
eight years, commencing on July 1, 2015. The proposed tax includes an exemption for
any parcel that is a principal residence of, and owned by, one or more persons 65 years
of age or older, and persons receiving supplemental security income, regardless of age.
The exemption would be made available by application to the District.

State law requires that the District state the specific purposes for which the parcel tax
proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for these specified
purposes. The stated purposes of the tax proposed by Measure E are to (1) maintain or
expand class offerings in academic subjects such as math, science and English; (2) teach
computer and technology skills to train students for high-demand jobs, such as high-
tech, health care and engineering; (3) recruit and retain highly qualified teachers; (4)
provide career technical education and vocational training; (5) increase offerings of
Advanced Placement classes to prepare students for college; (6) provide safe and clean
schools; (7) maintain or reduce class sizes; and (8) other educational purposes, which
are not specified by the District.

The District is required to provide accountability measures for the proceeds of the tax.
These measures include depositing the proceeds of the tax into a fund that is separate
and apart from other District funds. An annual written report must be made to the
Board, detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any
project authorized to be funded from the tax. In addition, a Citizens' Oversight
Committee will be appointed by the Board to review the expenditure of the tax
proceeds to ensure they are expended for the purposes identified in Measure E, and to
report annually to the Board and the public regarding the expenditures of these
proceeds.

A "yes" vote is a vote to renew a qualified special tax of $85 per parcel on parcels within
the District for eight years.

A "no" vote is a vote not to renew a qualified special tax of $85 per parcel on parcels
within the District for eight years.

Orry P. Korb
County Counsel

By:

s/ Susan Swain

Lead Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure E

Our Campbell Union High School District schools—Branham, Del Mar, Leigh,
Prospect, Westmont, Boynton and Camden—are a source of community pride.

Having great local high schools make our community a desirable place to live.

Measure E renews existing local school funding, without increasing taxes. These
funds can't be taken by the State. Since 2005, they've supported academic programs,
smaller class sizes, safe and clean schools, and recruiting and retaining highly
qualified teachers.

The State has cut more than $5 million a year from our local high schools over the
past five years. Without Measure E, the District would have to lay off teachers,
increase class sizes and cut academic programs.

We can't rely on the State to provide adequate funding to maintain the high-quality
education our students need.

Vote Yes on E to:

•	Maintain or add classes in academic subjects such as Math, Science and
English

•	Teach computer and technology skills to train students for high-demand jobs
such as high-tech, health care and engineering

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers so local high schools do not lose
good teachers to other areas

•	Provide career technical education and vocational training

•	Increase Advanced Placement classes to prepare students for college

•	Provide safe and clean high schools

Every dollar raised will continue to be used for our local high schools.

Measure E requires fiscal accountability:

•	None of the funds can be used to increase administrators' salaries, benefits
or pensions

•	An independent citizens' oversight committee will continue to ensure funds
are spent as promised

•	Seniors age 65 and older will continue to receive an exemption

•	Measure E will expire in 8 years and cannot be renewed without voter
approval

Measure E does not raise taxes--it simply renews existing local school funding to
maintain high-quality education.

Vote Yes on E.

s/ Evan Low
Mayor of Campbell

s/ Judy Chirco

Retired San Jose City Councilmember
s/ Manny Barbara

Vice President - Silicon Valley Education Foundation

s/ Sameen Shoenhair
CUHSD Teacher of Year

s/ M. Mandarino
Westmont PTSA President

(No arguments against Measure E were submitted)

Full Text of Measure E

To support quality education in local high schools with funds that cannot be taken by
the State, including academic instruction in science, math, English, Advanced
Placement, art, music, technology, vocational courses; recruit/retain qualified teachers;
maintain small class sizes; and provide safe/clean schools; shall Campbell Union High
School District renew - with no tax increase - an existing $85 annual parcel tax for 8
years, with exemptions for seniors and qualified disabled citizens, independent fiscal
oversight, and no administrator salaries?

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the registered voters
voting on the proposition, the District will be authorized to renew without increasing
the existing levy of an education parcel tax of $85 per parcel to maintain a high-quality
education in District high schools, subject to all the accountability requirements
specified below. If approved, the special tax will be levied for eight (8) consecutive
fiscal years, upon the expiration of the parcel tax which is currently in effect.

EXEMPTIONS FROM PARCEL TAX

The District has provided an exemption from the parcel tax will available to persons
who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a principal residence a parcel and
apply to the District for such exemption pursuant to guidelines established by the
District. An exemption will also be available for persons receiving Supplemental
Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, and who apply to the District for
such exemption pursuant to guidelines established by the District.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in order that
the voters and taxpayers in the District may be assured that their money will be spent
wisely.

Government Code Accountability. As required by the laws of the State of California, the
proceeds of the education parcel tax will be deposited into a special account
established by the District and will be applied only to the specific purposes identified
below. The District has covenanted to have on file with its governing board no later
than January 1 of each year a report stating the amount of the funds collected and
expended and the status of any project authorized to be funded.

Citizens' Oversight Committee. In addition, an independent Citizens' Oversight
Committee will be appointed by the Board of Trustees to advise the Board on the
expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for
the purposes approved by the voters. The Citizens' Oversight Committee will monitor
the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on an annual basis to the
Board and community on how these funds have been spent.

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

The statement shown below is a part of the ballot proposition and must be reproduced
in any official document required to contain the full statement of the proposition.

To protect quality education in Campbell Union High School District, including
Branham, Del Mar, Leigh, Prospect, Westmont, Boynton and Camden, renewed funding
from the existing education parcel tax will be used to support the following purposes.
The specific purposes of the education parcel tax are described as follows:

•	Maintain or expand class offerings in academic subjects such as math, science
and English

•	Teach computer and technology skills to train students for high-demand jobs,
such as high-tech, health care and engineering

•	Recruit and retain highly qualified teachers

•	Provide career technical education and vocational training

•	Increase offerings of Advanced Placement classes to prepare students for
college

•	Provide safe and clean schools

•	Maintain or reduce class sizes

•	Other educational purposes

Under no circumstances shall any of the proceeds of the education parcel tax be used
for administrators' salaries, benefits or pensions.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees of the District hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect
to the fullest extent allowed by law.