City of Waterford Community Facilities
District parcel tax, Measure W
(November 2013)

| Analysis

Below is an impartial analysis by city attorney Corbett J. Browning:

Pursuant to Government Code Section 53311, and subsequent sections, a General
Law City may initiate efforts to establish a Community Facilities District to provide
public services, including the operation, maintenance and administration of services
and facilities related to medians, parkways, landscaping, lighting, signals, and
related accessories and the funding therefore through a special tax collected in the
same manner as an ordinary ad valorem property tax.

Assessments in the existing Districts:

The Lighting Assessment District, formed in 1920, assesses $11.24 to 833 parcels.

This district provides street lighting services to the downtown residential area, and
pocket areas around the city. The Landscape and Lighting Assessment District,
formed in 1991, assesses a total of 1,377 parcels divided into 2 benefi t zones, with
annual rates of $52, and $28.52. This district provides for the maintenance and
operation costs of street lighting and landscaping services associated with medians,
selected bicycle/pedestrian parkways, and improved cul-de-sac areas.

New improvements and cost escalations have left both districts operating at deficits
for years, and both districts would terminate if Measure W is approved.

Measure "W" Proposed Special Tax Amount:

Residential Property - $60 per Residential Unit
Non-Residential Property - $120 per Parcel
Rural, Farm, & Agricultural Property - $60 per Parcel
Undeveloped Property - $30 per Parcel

The Ballot Measure and Levy, if approved, shall be effective July 1, 2014.

Additionally, the above amounts would be subject to an annual increase,
commencing on July 1, 2015, by the Annual Inflation Factor equal to the annual
percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco-Oakland-San
Jose Area calculated in February of each Fiscal Year.

Measure "W" provides that if the special tax is approved by a two-thirds (2/3)
majority of the qualified voters voting on the issue, there shall be a continuing lien
to secure each levy of the special tax attached to all non-exempt real property in the
District and the services will be provided by the City, with its own employees or by
contract with third parties, or any combination thereof.

A “yes” vote on Measure “W” would:

•	Allow for the expiration of the 2 current assessment districts, eliminating the
current rate structure

•	Eliminate the current $40,000 yearly deficit incurred upon the General Fund

•	Eliminate Benefit Zones and apply an overall consistent rate to eligible parcels

•	Cost $5.00 per month per eligible Residential unit and Rural/Agricultural
property

•	Cost $ 10.00 per month for a commercial property

A “no” vote on Measure “W” would:

•	Allow the districts to operate as they currently are

•	Would prohibit the City from implementing any of the changes described
above™