Full text of "Proposition D"

See other formats

CITY OF LOS ANGELES PROPOSITION D
TITLE:

MEDICAL MARIJUANA REGULATION AND TAXATION ORDINANCE (PROPOSITION D).

THE ISSUE:

Shall the City of Los Angeles limit the number of "medical marijuana businesses" to no mo
re

than 1 35 that operated since September 2007, previously registered with the City, and co
ntinue

to meet other requirements and operational standards?

THE SITUATION:

There has been a proliferation of medical marijuana establishments citywide. Regulations
governing their number, location, and operation may protect residents, businesses, and
patients from potential adverse impacts.

THE PROPOSAL:

This measure regulates by banning "medical marijuana businesses" while granting immunity
from the ban to those businesses that operated since September 2007, previously registere
d

with the City, and continue to meet other requirements and operational standards.

This measure exempts from City regulation dwelling units where three (3) or fewer patient
s

and/or caregivers cultivate medical marijuana on-site for themselves or their patients. I
t also

exempts licensed health care facilities and locations/vehicles during the time they are u
sed

to deliver medical marijuana to a qualified patient.

This measure would increase the City tax on these businesses from $50.00 to $60.00 for
each $1 ,000 of gross receipts.

AYES VOTE MEANS:

You want to regulate "medical marijuana businesses" by allowing the continued operation o
f

no more than 1 35 "medical marijuana businesses" that have operated since September 2007,
previously registered with the City, and meet other requirements and operational standard
s.

You also want to increase the City tax on these businesses from $50.00 to $60.00 for each
$1 ,000 of gross receipts.

A NO VOTE MEANS:

You do not want to regulate "medical marijuana businesses" by allowing the continued
operation of no more than 135 "medical marijuana businesses" that have operated since
September 2007, previously registered with the City, and meet other requirements and
operational standards. You do not want to increase the City tax on these businesses from
$50.00 to $60.00 for each $1 ,000 of gross receipts.

THE FULLTEXT OFTHIS MEASURE BEGINS ON PAGE 33.

BSD

14

i

I

I

i

i

D MEDICAL MARIJUANA REGULATION AND TAXATION. LIMIT
NUMBER OF BUSINESSES TO- APPROXIMATELY 135 THAT
OPERATED SINCE SEPTEMBER 2007 AND REGISTERED, IF THEY MEET
OTHER REQUIREMENTS AND OPERATIONAL STANDARDS. EXEMPT
DWELLINGS OF THREE OR FEWER PATIENTS/CAREGIVERS CULTIVATING
MEDICAL MARIJUANA FOR THEIR PATIENTS OR THEMSELVES FROM
REGULATION. INCREASE TAXES ON MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES.

PROPOSITION D.

Shall an ordinance regulating businesses where marijuana is cultivated, processed,
distributed, delivered or given away to qualified patients or primary caregivers (MMBs) b

y:

Cl) prohibiting MMBs but providing limited immunity for MMBs that operated since
September 2007, timely registered with the City, generally have not ceased operations,
pay City taxes, pass annual background checks, are separated from residential zones,

maintain certain distances from schools, parks, child care facilities, other designated p
laces

and other MMBs, and meet other requirements and operational standards; (2) exempting
dwelling units used by three or fewer patients/caregivers to cultivate medical marijuana
on-site for their patients or themselves, and other exemptions; and (3) increasing the MM
B

tax to $60 per each $1,000 of gross receipts; be adopted?

IMPARTIAL SUMMARY

BY GERRY F. MILLER, CHIEF LEGISLATIVE ANALYST

This is the first of three competing ballot measures that propose to regulate medical
marijuana in the City of Los Angeles. This measure is a proposition. The other two measur
es

on the ballot are the result of an initiative petition process and submitted to a vote of
the

electorate.

This proposition would regulate "medical marijuana businesses" by banning such
businesses, but then grant immunity from the ban to those businesses that have operated
since September 2007, previously registered in accordance with three (3) of the City's ea
rlier

medical marijuana registration laws, and that comply with specified operational requireme
nts.

It defines a "medical marijuana business" as: (1) any location where marijuana is cultiva
ted,

processed, distributed, delivered, or given away to a qualified patient, a person with an
identification card, or a primary caregiver; and (2) any vehicle or other mode of transpo
rtation,

stationary or mobile, which is used to transport, distribute, deliver, or give away marij
uana

to a qualified patient, a person with an identification card, or a primary caregiver. The
measure

states that there are approximately 135 businesses that satisfy the three (3) earlier reg
istration

laws and that could qualify for immunity.

This measure would also increase the City taxes on "medical marijuana businesses"
from $50.00 to $60.00 for each $1 ,000.00 of gross receipts.

U111111111111H11111

The operational requirements of this proposition, which are conditions for receiving
immunity and enforceable as misdemeanors if violated, include: generally has not ceased

operations, passes annual background checks, is separated from residential zones, maintai
ns

a 1,000-foot distance from schools and a 600-foot distance from parks, child care facilit
ies

and other designated places, and other requirements. The proposition requires a 600-foot
distance separation between medical marijuana businesses.

This proposition would exempt from City regulation any dwelling unit where three (3) or
fewer qualified patients, persons with an identification card, and/or primary caregivers
process

or cultivate marijuana on-site for their own personal medical use or for the personal med
ical

use of their qualified patients. The measure would also exempt licensed health care facil
ities

and both locations and vehicles during the time they are used to deliver medical marijuan
a

to a qualified patient.

If any or all of the three competing measures are approved by a majority of voters, only
the one ballot measure that receives the most votes will become effective.

FINANCIAL IMPACT STATEMENT

BY MIGUEL A. SANTANA, CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

This measure will reduce the number of Medical Marijuana Businesses (MMBs) operating
in the City by restricting and regulating the number of MMBs to those operating since
September 2007. it also will increase the business tax rate paid by MMBs from $50 per eac
h

$1000 in gross receipts to $60 per each $1000 of gross receipts.

The impact of this measure cannot be quantified. The City received $2.5 million in busine
ss

taxes from MMBs in 2012. Any revenue loss from the decrease in MMBs may be offset by

the increase in the tax rate and the possible shift of business to the remaining MMBs. MM

B

business tax revenue is deposited in the General Fund and is used to fund police, fire, s
treet

services, parks, libraries and other general purposes throughout the City. Additional pub
lie .

safety and enforcement expenditures resulting from exemptions for dwelling units and heal
th

care facilities are unknown.

111111111111111111111!

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION D

Proposition D is the only measure regulating medical marijuana dispensaries which
guarantees patients access to their medicine while regulating, controlling and taxing the
se

establishments and protecting neighborhoods and communities.

There are three medical marijuana-related measures on the ballot, and it is important to
know the differences and why Prop D is the one to vote for .

Prop D was drafted bv the City of Los Anaeles and put on the ballot by the City Council,
and not by special interest groups . Prop D is supported by local elected and neighborhoo
d

leaders, patients, caregivers, and patient advocates.

Prop- D is the only measure that will:

•	Provide that properly permitted patients have safe access to medical marijuana.

•	Control and regulate dispensaries, including where and when they operate.

•	Close dispensaries that are not following the law or are harming neighborhoods.

•	Raise taxes on dispensaries to pay for law enforcement, firefighters, parks, and
libraries.

No other measure on the ballot accomplishes these goals.

Prop D:

•	Reduces the number of dispensaries and limits legal dispensaries to approximately
135 (down from the estimated 1,600 that now exist), limits licenses to those
dispensaries in continuous operation since 2007 and are at least 1,000 feet from
schools and 600 feet from libraries, parks, and places of religious worship.

•	Requires background checks on dispensary employees.

•	Increases funding for public safety and enforcement.

•	Raises taxes on dispensary sales by 20%, generating a likelihood of millions of dollars
in new revenue to the City.

Prop D is the only measure on the ballot supported by leading patient advocates,
neighborhood leaders, and city leaders.

Prop D is the only measure that can provide for safe access to medical marijuana for
the genuinely ill while also protecting our neighborhoods and schools and generating
increased funds for our City .

VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION D!

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not checked
for accuracy by any City agency.

AFD 26

lumiiimimiill May 2013

PERSONS SIGNING ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION D

BILL ROSENDAHL
Councilmember
L.A. City Council

RIGOBERTOVALDEZ, JR.

President

Citizens' Coalition to Protect Patients
and Neighborhoods

WILLIAM RUSBOSIN
AIDS Patient

GIL GARCETTI

Former Los Angeles County District Attorney

RICARDO F. ICAZA
President

United Food and Commercial Workers
Local 770

LAVANZA BUTLER, RPH
Registered Pharmacist

PAUL KORETZ

Councilmember
L.A. City Council

AFD

27

1111111illlllllllill

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION D

Vote NO on Proposition D

This proposition will increase the proliferation of illegal pot shops across Los Angeles.
It won't overturn Federal law which prohibits the sale or possession of marijuana for any
reason. This proposition will only protect the untold millions of illegal cash profits ma
de by

illegal pot shop owners at the expense of our communities.

The continued operation of illegal pot shops only creates the potential for increased
blight, robberies and even homicide. Law enforcement needs every tool possible to keep ou
r

City safe.

It will NOT provide additional revenue for Los Angeles, Medicine is not subject to tax.
This proposition will place the City in endless litigation, diverting vital resources fro
m core
services.

We all have sympathy for the seriously ill; however, this proposition does nothing to pro
tect

patients. Join law enforcement and community leaders across Los Angeles and Vote
NO on D.

PERSONS SIGNING REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
PROPOSITION D

BERNARD C. PARKS MITCHELL ENGLANDER

Councilmember, District 8 Councilmember, District 12
City of Los Angeles City of Los Angeles

ROBERT RUBIN
Consultant

THEODORE THOMAS
President

Park Mesa Heights Community
Council ■

PAULA CRACIUM
President

Porter Ranch Neighborhood Council

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not checked
for accuracy by any City agency.

RAFD 28 11111111111illllllillllllli May 2013

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSTION D

Vote NO on Proposition D

This proposition will increase the proliferation of illegal pot shops across Los Angeles.
Nothing in D will overturn Federal law which prohibits the sale or possession of marijuan
a

for any reason. This proposition will only protect the untold millions of illegal cash pr
ofits

made by illegal pot shop owners at the expense of our communities.

Vote NO on Proposition D. It ties the hands of neighborhoods under siege by illegal pot

shops. There are more illegal pot shops than ice cream stores in Los Angeles. The continu
ed

operation of illegal pot shops only creates the potential for increased blight, takeover
robberies,

and even homicides. Law enforcement needs every tool possible to keep our City safe.

Vote NO on Proposition D. It will NOT provide additional revenue for Los Angeles.

Medicine is not subject to tax. The pot shop owners have already sued the City to prevent
taxation of their illegal businesses.This proposition will just place the City in endless
litigation

and divert vital resources from core services.

Vote NO on Proposition D. We all have sympathy for the seriously ill; however, this
proposition does nothing to protect patients. California's 1 996 Compassionate Use Act al
ready

protects patients and their caregivers from criminal prosecution.

Protect our communities from blight, illegal drug sales and violent crime. Join law
enforcement and community leaders across Los Angeles and vote NO on D.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not checked
for accuracy by any City agency

AAD 29

1111111111111111111 Ma v 2013

PERSONS SIGNING ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION D

BERNARD C. PARKS
Councilmember, District 8
City of Los Angeles

PAULA CRACIUM •

President

Porter Ranch Neighborhood Council

BETTYE BRYANT
Representative

Mid City Neighborhood Council Region 1

ROBERT RUBIN
Consultant

MITCH ENGLANDER
Councilmember, District 12
City of Los Angeles

EDWARD HEADINGTON
President

Granada Hills North Neighborhood Council

THEODORE THOMAS
President

Park Mesa Heights Community Council

AAD

30

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION D
The argument against Proposition D is plain wrong!

Your City Attorney wrote and City Council passed Proposition D because it protects
compassionate access to seriously ill citizens and places strict and enforceable limits o
n the

number and locations of these dispensaries.

Proposition D gives the city the legal tools to close all illegal dispensaries.
Proposition D limits the number of dispensaries to 135 city wide.

Proposition D requires background checks on dispensary employees.

Proposition D, written by the City Attorney's office and approved by the City Council, im
poses

a sales tax that raises critical revenues for the city.

Proposition D establishes clear limits that keep approved dispensaries away from schools
parks, libraries, and churches.

Your vote for Proposition D protects genuinely ill patients' access to medical marijuana
while

giving police and community the resources they need to regulate and control the 135 city
approved dispensaries.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not checked
for accuracy by any City agency.

RAAD 01 im i mi i ii i it 1 1 ii 1 1 mi i in May 2013

PERSONS SIGNING REBUTTALTOTHE ARGUMENT AGAINST
PROPOSITION D

BILL ROSENDAHL
Councilmember
L.A. City Council

RIGOBERTO VALDEZ, JR.

President

Citizens' Coalition to Protect
Patients and Neighborhoods

WILLIAM RUSBOSIN
AIDS Patient

GIL GARCETTI

Former Los Angeles County
District Attorney

BAKER MONTGOMERY
Member

Eagle Rock Neighborhood Council

JOHN LAWLER
Member

Studio City Neighborhood Council

LAVANZA BUTLER, RPH
Registered Pharmacist

RICARDO F. ICAZA
President

United Food and Commercial
Workers Local 770

PAUL KORETZ
Councilmember
L.A. City Council

RAAD

32

May 2013

PROPOSITION D

An ordinance replacing Article 5.1 of Chapter IV and amending Section 21 .50(b) of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.The ordinance: (a) prohibits medical marijuana businesses, (b)
grants a limited immunity from enforcement to medical marijuana businesses that do not
violate specified restrictions, and (c) increases the existing tax on such businesses fro
m $50

to $60 per each $1,000 of gross receipts, until such time as the California Supreme Court
rules regarding what cities can and cannot regulate and the City enacts new medical marij
uana

legislation consistent with that judicial guidance.

WHEREAS, the Compassionate Use Act (CUA), adopted by the voters in 1996, and the

Medical Marijuana Program Act (MM PA), enacted by the State Legislature in 2003, provided
California's qualified patients and their primary caregivers with limited immunities to s
pecified

criminal prosecutions under state law for purposes including to ensure that qualified pat
ients

and their primary caregivers who obtain and use marijuana for medical purposes are not
subject to state criminal prosecution;

WHEREAS, commencing in 2007, according to local media reports and neighborhood
sightings and complaints, more than 850 medical marijuana businesses opened, closed and
reopened storefront shops and commercial growing operations in the City without any land
use approval under the Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC or Code) and, since that time,
an unknown number of these businesses continue to open, close, and reopen in Los Angeles,
with no regulatory authorization from the City;

WHEREAS, the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) has reported that, as the number

of marijuana dispensaries and commercial growing operations continue to proliferate witho

ut

legal oversight, the City and its neighborhoods have experienced an increase in crime and
the negative secondary harms associated with unregulated marijuana businesses, including
but not limited to, murders, robberies, the distribution of tainted marijuana, and the di
version

of marijuana for non-medicai and recreational uses;

WHEREAS, in August 2007, the City enacted an Interim Control Ordinance 179027 (the

ICO) to prohibit medical marijuana businesses in the City and to exempt from that prohibi

tion,

until the City's adoption of comprehensive medical marijuana regulations, certain existin
9

medical marijuana facilities that timely registered with the City Clerk; and 1 85 existin
g medical

marijuana businesses registered with the City Clerk by November 13, 2007 in accordance
with all requirements of the ICO;

WHEREAS, in January 2010, the City established a regulatory framework to balance

the proliferation of medical marijuana businesses, access by seriously ill patients to me

dical

marijuana, and public safety, by adopting Medical Marijuana Ordinance 181069 (MMO), addin
9

Article 5.1 , Chapter IV, of the LAMC, subsequently amended by ordinances including, in 2
01 1 ,

Temporary Urgency Ordinance 1 81 530 (TUO); and 230 medical marijuana businesses notified
the City Clerk by February 1 8, 201 1 of their intention to register under the MMO as ame
nded

by the TUO;

WHEREAS, the City's efforts to foster compassionate patient access to medical

marijuana, which capped the number of dispensaries through priority registration opportun

ities

for earlier existing collectives, a drawing, and mandatory geographic dispersal, resulted

in

TXTO 33 lllllllllinilllll Ma, 2 0,3

an explosion of lawsuits by medical marijuana businesses challenging the validity of the
MMO

and TUO. These related actions were deemed complex and are assigned to Department

309 of the Los Angeles Superior Court. MJ Collectives Litigation: Americans for Safe Acce

ss

et a/, v. City of Los Angeles, et al, Los Angeles Superior Court, Lead Case No. BC433942
(and all related actions). These lawsuits have been accompanied by the continued opening
and operation of unpermitted businesses, recurrent neighborhood complaints regarding crim
e

and negative secondary effects, and an inappropriate and overly excessive drain upon civi
c

legal and law enforcement resources;

WHEREAS, in the March 8, 201 1 Municipal Election, the voters of the City of Los Angeles
passed Measure M and enacted Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.50, which imposed
a tax of $50 for every $1 ,000 of revenues generated by Medical Marijuana Collectives, wh
ich

measure has been subsequently challenged in court;

WHEREAS, 157 medical marijuana businesses that registered under the ICO also

notified the City Clerk by February 1 8, 201 1 of their intention to register under the M

MO as

amended by the TUO; and 135 out of those 157 medical marijuana businesses also registered
under Measure M in either 201 1 or 201 2;

WHEREAS, on October 4, 2011, the Second Appellate District of the California Court

of Appeal, whose decisions bind the City of Los Angeles, ruled in the case of Pack v. Sup

erior

Court, 199 Cal. App. 4th 1070 (2011) (Pack), that significant provisions of the medical
marijuana ordinance of the City of Long Beach, which was modeled after Article 5.1 , Chap
ter

IV of the LAMC, are preempted by the federal Controlled Substances Act (CSA) [21 U.S.C.
Section 801 , ef seq], which bans marijuana for all purposes;

WHEREAS, the Pack court held, as more particularly stated in the opinion, that while
cities may enact prohibitions that restrict and limit medical marijuana businesses, citie
s are

preempted under the CSA from enacting affirmative regulations that permit or authorize
medical marijuana businesses and marijuana related activities, and further raised the spe
cter

of violation of federal law through the actions of individual city officials, 199 Cal. Ap
p. 4th

1070, 1091, fn. 27;

WHEREAS, although the Los Angeles Superior Court issued a narrow preliminary

injunction against pieces of the MMO in December 2010, on October 14, 2011, it: Cl) denie

d

numerous motions to enjoin the MMO, as amended; (2) declined to address the impact of
federal preemption on the City's medical marijuana regulations in light of Pack until tha
t case

becomes final or until "our Supreme Court decides to weigh in on the federal preemption .
issue" and because federal preemption had not been raised in those cases; and (3) observe
d

that Pack could have a profound impact on the TUO "which bears more than a passing
resemblance to the Long Beach medical marijuana ordinance";

WHEREAS, given the similarities between the ordinance at issue in Pac/cand the City's
MMO and to avoid any possibility of violating federal law, the City discontinued implemen
ting

the MMO, as amended;

WHEREAS, in December 2011, California Attorney General Kamala Harris abandoned
her effort to revise the medical marijuana guidelines of the Attorney General and advised
the State Legislature that in the opinion of the Attorney General, new legislation is req
uired

in order to resolve questions of law regarding medical marijuana that are not answered by
1X10 34 ilillllllilllMII!

existing law.The Attorney General specifically called for legislation on the contours of
collective

and cooperative cultivation, and on the definition and rules for dispensaries;

WHEREAS, in January 2012, the California Supreme Court granted review of Pack,
declined to enjoin a ban of medical marijuana business proposed for the City of Long Beac

h,

and subsequently dismissed its review in August 2012 as abandoned and moot, thereby not
addressing the substantive question of federal preemption of local regulations, and has a
Iso

granted review of City of Riverside v. Inland Empire Patient's Health & Wellness Center,
200

Cal. App. 4th 885 (4 ,h Dist, 2011) and People v. G3 Holistic, 2011 Cal. App. Unpub. LEXI
S

8634, both recognizing that cities may properly ban medical marijuana businesses consiste
nt

with the CUA and MM PA, with oral argument in those cases set for February 5, 2013;

WHEREAS, additional appellate rulings concerning medical marijuana were issued in
February 2012, including by the Second Appellate District of the California Court of Appe
al

in the case of People v.Colvin, 203 Cal. App. 4th 1029 (2012), and by the Fourth Appellat
e

District of the California Court of Appeal in the case of City of Lake Forest v. Evergree
n Holistic

Collective, 203 Cal. App. 4th 1413 (2012), and whereas the Evergreen Holistic case decisi
on

has been accepted for review by the California Supreme Court with further action deferred
pending consideration and disposition of related issues in the Inland Empire case;

WHEREAS, an additional appellate ruling concerning medical marijuana was issued in

March 2012, by the Second Appellate District of the California Court of Appeal in the cas

e

of People ex rel. Trutanich v. Joseph, 204 Cal. App. 4th 1512 (2012) which held that that
neither section 11362.775 nor section 11362.765 of the MMPA immunizes marijuana sales
activity. "Section 11362.775 protects group activity 'to cultivate marijuana for medical
purposes.' It does not cover dispensing or selling marijuana. Section 11362.765 allows
reasonable compensation for services provided to a qualified patient or person authorized
to use marijuana, but such compensation may be given only to a 'primary caregiver.'" Jose
ph

at 1523;

WHEREAS, in July 2012, the Second District Court of Appeal reversed the preliminary
injunction order issued against the MMO in the case now renamed from its original filing
to

420 Caregivers, LLC v. City of Los Angeles, 207 Cal. App. 4th 703 (2 nd Dist., 2012), whi
ch

held, among other things, that (a) the provisions of the MMO were lawful that limited med
ical

marijuana collectives in the City to only those approximately 180 that had timely registe
red

with the City under the ICO, and (b) the MMO sunset by its own terms on June 6, 2012, and
that as of that date only collectives of three or fewer members are allowed to operate in
the

City, and whereas portions of this decision have been accepted for deferred review by the
California Supreme Court;

WHEREAS, having made a confidential settlement proposal that was rejected by the
dispensary litigants, the City thereafter sought in August 2012 to address the continued
proliferation of unregulated and unauthorized medical marijuana businesses in the City by
enacting Ordinance 182190 (Gentle Ban) to prohibit medical marijuana businesses, with
limited exceptions that include dwelling units used by three or fewer qualified persons t
o

process or collectively and cooperatively cultivate medical marijuana; and hospices and
licensed clinics, care facilities and home health agencies entitled to the state law qual
ified

immunities;

111111111111111111111111111

WHEREAS, the City Clerk presented a referendary petition to the City Council regarding
the Gentle Ban Ordinance on September 17, 201 2, and the City Charter authorizes the Coun
cil

to respond to the referendary petition by repealing the Gentle Ban Ordinance within twent

y

days of its presentation;

WHEREAS, in connection with consideration by the City Council of the referendary
petition, members and representatives of the medical marijuana community submitted
comments and objections to the Gentle Ban and alternative proposed regulations to restric
t

medical marijuana businesses;

WHEREAS, the comments, objections and proposals include, among others, limitations

upon the number of medical marijuana businesses rather than a ban; prohibitions that rest

rict

rather than affirmative regulations that permit or authorize such businesses; prohibition
s upon

operating within certain distances of sensitive uses;, prohibitions upon hours of operati
on

unaccompanied minors, marijuana visible from the exterior, lighting, and signage; crimina
1

background checks; requiring transparent operations; requiring testing of marijuana for m
old

and contaminants; and restrictions related to security;

WHEREAS, in response to the comments, objections and proposals, the City Council
adopted Ordinance 182286 on October 9, 2012 repealing the Gentle Ban Ordinance;

WHEREAS, an appellate ruling issued on October 24, 2012 by the Fourth Appellate

District of the California Court of Appeal in the case of People v. Jackson, 2012 Cal. Ap

P-

LEXIS 1106, regarding the scope of immunities available under the MMPA regarding profits
and sales by medical marijuana collectives;

WHEREAS on November 5, 2012, Department 311 of the Los Angeles Superior Court,
in related actions filed by the People of the State of California and entitled People v.
Cahuenga's The Spot LLC, et a/., Los Angeles Superior Court Lead Case No. BC460794
(and all related cases), granted motions for preliminary injunction by the People against
numerous medical marijuana dispensaries which opened in the City in violation of the City
's

Zoning Code, which does not include medical marijuana as an enumerated use, and without
following the required procedures to obtain a Zoning Administrator Interpretation (ZAI) u
nder

LAMC §12.21 (A)(1) or Variance (Variance) under LAMC §12.27 for such a use, which orders
have been appealed; and

WHEREAS the City wishes to address the continued proliferation of unauthorized
medical marijuana businesses in the City by granting a limited immunity from enforcement

of its prohibition on medical marijuana businesses under Los Angeles Municipal Code Secti
on

1 1 .00 Cl) to those medical marijuana businesses that have abided by the City's regulati
ons

to date and do not violate the restrictions set forth in this ordinance, until such time
as the

California Supreme Court rules regarding what cities can and cannot regulate and the City
enacts new medical marijuana legislation consistent with that .judicial guidance.

TXTD

36

III 11111111111111111111

May 2013

NOW, THEREFORE,

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Article 5.1 of Chapter IV of the Los Angeles Municipal Code is replaced in
its entirety to read as follows:

ARTICLE 5.1
MEDICAL MARIJUANA

SEC. 45.19.6. PURPOSES AND INTENT.

The purpose of this Article is to enact a materially new ordinance that (a) prohibits
medical marijuana businesses, but (b) grants a limited immunity from the enforcement of i
ts

prohibition to those medical marijuana businesses that do not violate the restrictions se
t forth

in this ordinance, until such time as the California Supreme Court rules regarding what c
ities

can and cannot regulate and the City enacts new medical marijuana legislation consistent

with that judicial guidance.

It is also the purpose of this Article to stem the negative impacts and secondary effects
associated with the ongoing medical marijuana businesses in the City, including but not 1
imited

to the extraordinary and unsustainable demands that have been placed upon scarce City
policing, legal, policy, and administrative resources; neighborhood disruption, increased
transient visitors, and intimidation; the exposure of school-age children and other sensi
tive

residents to medical marijuana; drug sales to both minors and adults; fraud in issuing,
obtaining or using medical marijuana recommendations; and murders, robberies, burglaries,
assaults, drug trafficking and other violent crimes.

This Article is not intended to conflict with federal or state law, nor is this Article i
ntended

to answer or invite litigation over the unresolved legal questions posed by the Californi
a

Attorney General or by case law regarding the scope and application of state law. It is t
he

intention of the City Council that this Article be interpreted to be compatible with fede
ral and

state enactments and in furtherance of the public purposes that those enactments encompas
s.

SEC. 45.19.6.1. DEFINITIONS.

A.	The following words or phrases, when used
defined beiow. Words and phrases not defined
n

11.01, 12.03 and 45.19.5 of this Code.

"Building" means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.

"Location" means any parcel of land, whether vacant or occupied by a building, group
of buildings, or accessory buildings, and includes the buildings, structures, yards, open
spaces,

lot width, and lot area.

"Manager" means any person to whom a medical marijuana business has delegated
discretionary powers to organize, direct, carry on or control its operations. Authority t
o control

one or more of the following functions shall be prima facie evidence that such a person i
s a

manager of the business: (a) to hire, select, or separate employees or staff, including

in this Article, shall be construed as
here shall be construed as defined in Sectio

TXTD 37 ; III:! ,! III! 1111 Ma ¥2 0,3

volunteers; (b) to acquire facilities, furniture, equipment or supplies other than the oc
casional

replenishment of stock; (c) to disburse funds of the business other than for the receipt
of

regularly replaced items of stock; or (d) to make, or participate in making, policy decis
ions

relative to operations of the business.

"Marijuana" shall be construed as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section
11018 and further shall specifically include any product that contains marijuana or a der
ivative
of marijuana.

"Medical marijuana business" means either of the following:

Cl) Any location where marijuana is cultivated, processed, distributed, delivered, or
given away to a qualified patient, a person with an identification card, or a primary car
egiver.

(2)	Any vehicle or other mode of transportation, stationary or mobile, which is used to
transport, distribute, deliver, or give away marijuana to a qualified patient, a person w
ith an

identification card, or a primary caregiver.

(3)	Notwithstanding Subparagraphs 1 and 2 above, "medical marijuana business" shall
not include any of the following:

(a)	Any dwelling unit where a maximum of three (3) or fewer qualified patients, .
persons with an identification card, and/or primary caregivers process or associate to
collectively or cooperatively cultivate marijuana on-site, with respect to qualified pati
ents

and persons with an identification card for their own personal medical use, and with
respect to the primary caregivers for the personal medical use of the qualified patients
or persons with an identification card who have designated the individual as a primary
caregiver, in accordance with California Health and Safety Code Sections 1 1 362.5 and !
11362.7 etseq.;

(b)	Any location during only that time reasonably required for a primary caregiver

to distribute, deliver, or give away marijuana to a qualified patient or person with an '
identification card who has designated the individual as a primary caregiver, for the
personal medical use of the qualified patient or person with an identification card, in j
accordance with California Health and Safety Code Section 11362.5 and 11362.7 et !

S6C} . \

(c)	The. location of any clinic licensed pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 1200), a health care facility licensed pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 1250), a residential care facility for persons with chronic life-threatening illn
ess

licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.01 (commencing with Section 1568.01), a residential

care facility for the elderly licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.2 (commencing with Section
1569), a hospice, or a home health agency licensed pursuant to Chapter 8 (commencing
with Section 1725), all of Division 2 of the California Health and Safety Code where: (i)
a qualified patient or person with an identification card receives medical care or
supportive services, or both, from the clinic, facility, hospice, or home health agency,
and (ii) the owner or operator, or one of not more than three employees designated by j
the owner or operator, of the clinic, facility,' hospice, or home health agency has been
designated as a primary caregiver pursuant to California Health and Safety Code Section

1 1362.7(d) by that qualified patient or person with an identification card; or i

illlllllillllllll Ma, 2 0,3

(d)	Any vehicle during only that time reasonably required for its use by: (i) a
qualified patient or person with an identification card to transport marijuana for his or
her personal medical use, or (ii) a primary caregiver to transport, distribute, deliver,
or

give away marijuana to a qualified patient or person with an identification card who has
designated the individual as a primary caregiver, for the personal medical use of the
qualified patient or person with an identification card, in accordance with California He
alth

and Safety Code Section 1 1 362.765.

"Structure" means anything constructed or erected which is supported directly or
indirectly on the earth, but not including any vehicle.

"Vehicle" means a device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved,
or drawn upon a street, sidewalk or waterway, including but not limited to a device moved
exclusively by human power.

"Youth Center" means any indoor, public, private or parochial facility, other than a priv
ate

residence or a multiple dwelling unit, which contains programs which provide, on a regula
r

basis, activities or services for persons who have not yet reached the age of 18 years,
including, but not limited to, community-based programs, after-school programs, weekend
programs, violence prevention programs, leadership development programs, vocational
programs, substance abuse prevention programs, individual or group counseling, remedial,
tutorial or other educational assistance or enrichment, music, art, dance and other recre
ational

or cultural activities, physical fitness activities and sports programs.

B.	The following words or phrases when used in this Section shall be construed as
defined in California Health and Safety Code Sections 1746, 1 1362.5, 1 1362.7, and 1 183
4.02.

"Alcoholism or drug abuse recovery or treatment facility";

"Hospice";

"Identification card";

"Person with an identification card";

"Primary caregiver"; and
"Qualified patient".

SEC. 45.19.6.2. PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.

A.	It is unlawful to own, establish, operate, use, or permit the establishment or operati
on

of a medical marijuana business, or to participate as an employee, contractor, agent or
volunteer, or in any other manner or capacity in any medical marijuana business.

B.	The prohibition in Subsection A, above, includes renting, leasing, or otherwise
permitting a medical marijuana business to occupy or use a location, vehicle, or other mo
de

of transportation.

SEC. 45.19.6.3. LIMITED IMMUNITY.

Notwithstanding the activities prohibited by this Article, and notwithstanding that medic
al

marijuana business is not and shall not become a permitted use in the City for so long as
this Article remains in effect, a medical marijuana business shall not be subject to the
remedies

set forth in Los Angeles Municipal Code Sections 11.00 or 12.27.1 solely on the basis of:
(1 ) an activity prohibited by Section 45.1 9.6.2; and (2) the fact that medical marijuan
a business

TXTD

is not a permitted use in the City, provided however that, as authorized by California He
alth

and Safety Code Section 11362.83, this limited immunity is available and may be asserted
as an affirmative defense only so long as subsections A through D and G through of this
Section 45.19.6.3 remain in effect in their entirety, only by a medical marijuana busines
s at

the one location identified in its original or any amended business tax .registration cer
tificate

issued by the City, and only if that medical marijuana business does not violate any of t
he

following medical marijuana business restrictions:

A.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that was not operating in the City
as a medical marijuana business by September 14, 2007, as evidenced by a business tax
registration or tax exemption certificate issued by the City on or before November IS, 20
07;

B.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that did not register with the City
Clerk by November 1 3, 2007 in accordance with all requirements of the City's Interim Con
trol

Ordinance 179027;

C.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that did not notify the City Clerk

by February 18, 201 1 of its intention to register under the City's Medical Marijuana Ord
inance

181069, as amended by the Temporary Urgency Ordinance 181530;

D.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that ceased or ceases operation

at the location set forth in its original or any amended business tax registration or tax
exemption

certificate issued by the City, as evidenced by: (i) an enforcement determination, writte
n

settlement agreement, or court order, that has not been repealed, rescinded, or overturne
d

by a government agency or court of competent jurisdiction, or (ii) the absence of either
a

lease or deed and utility bills for the location, in the name of the medical marijuana bu
siness

or in the name of any person or entity for the benefit of the medical marijuana business.
Upon request from the City, a medical marijuana business that seeks immunity pursuant to
this Article shall direct its landlord and utility providers to provide its lease and uti
lity bills to

the City Clerk. For purposes of provision (ii) of this subsection, a medical marijuana bu
siness

shall not be deemed to have ceased operation during the time reasonably necessary to move
to a new location pursuant to this Article, or if it temporarily ceased but resumed opera
tion

in response to an enforcement letter issued by a federal governmental entity or the City
prior

to the effective date of Temporary Urgency Ordinance 181530;

E.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that failed or fails to: (i) obtain a
City business tax registration for taxation as a medical marijuana collective in 201 1 or
2012,

and (ii) renew that business tax registration within 90 days of the effective date of thi
s Article

and before each annual renewal deadline thereafter;

F.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that has an unpaid tax obligation

to the City that is not paid in full, including any assessed fines, penalties, interest o
r other

costs (collectively "unpaid tax obligations"), prior to the. commencement of the followin
g tax

year. A taxpayer shall not be in breach of this subsection for tax years 2011 and 2012 if
it

pays the City by January 1 , 2014 all unpaid tax obligations incurred for tax years 201 1
and

2012. Further, a taxpayer shall not be in breach of this subsection if it enters into and
fully

performs per the terms of an offer and compromise or other settlement agreement with the
City that satisfies any unpaid obligations. This subsection shall not deprive any medical

a * lllliilllillllliiillllllil

marijuana business of rights, if any, to appeal or seek judicial determination of the pro
priety

of any amounts alleged by the City as unpaid tax "obligations, and a medical marijuana
business shall not lose its claim of limited immunity due to the pendency of any such app
eal

or judicial determination;

G.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that remains open and/or operating
between the hours of 8 PM and 10 AM;

H.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited where marijuana and/or alcohol

are consumed at the premises or in any area of the location used for parking any vehicle;

I.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that allows a minor unaccompanied
by a parent or legal guardian to enter its premises;

J.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited where marijuana is visible from the
exterior of the premises;

K.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that illuminates any portion of its
premises during closure hours by lighting that is visible from the exterior of the premis
es,

except such lighting as is reasonably utilized for the security of the premises;

L.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that provides ingress or egress to

its premises on any side of the location that (i) abuts, (ii) is across a street, alley o
r walk

from, as measured at 90 degrees from the lot lines of the location, or (iii) has a common
corner with any land zoned residential, except that an exit door required by this Code ma

y

be maintained for emergency egress only and must be locked from the exterior at all times

The above notwithstanding, this subsection shall not prohibit a medical marijuana busines
s

from locating across a street from, or haying a common corner with, any land zoned reside

ntial

if the medical marijuana business is separated from that residential zone by a public
thoroughfare with a minimum roadway width of 80 feet. This subsection shall not apply to
defeat the limited immunity claim of a medical marijuana business that is otherwise entit
led

to assert the limited immunity provided by this Article if it moves within one hundred ei
ghty

(180) days after the effective date of this Article to a location that does not violate t
his

subsection;

M.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that fails to identify by name and
residence address each of its Managers to the City Clerk by October 31 of each year and
whose Managers fail to successfully pass and publicly display at the location of the medi
cal

marijuana business the results of an annual LAPD LiveScan background check to be
completed by January 31 of each year. A failed LAPD LiveScan is a LiveScan that includes
any felony conviction within the past ten years and/or current parole or probation for th
e sale

or distribution of a controlled substance;

N.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that has one or more Managers

who are also Managers at the same time of another medical marijuana business in the City;
and

IIIIIM Mill HI May 2013

0.	Every medical marijuana business is prohibited that is located within a 1 , 000-foot
radius of a school, or within a 600-foot radius of a public park, public library, religio
us institution,

child care facility, youth center, alcoholism, drug abuse recovery or treatment facility,
or other

medical marijuana business. The distance specified in this paragraph shall be the horizon
tal

distance measured in a straight line from the property line of the school, public park, p
ublic

library, religious institution, child care facility, youth center, alcoholism or drug abu
se recovery

or treatment facility, .or other medical marijuana business, to the closest property line
of the

lot on which the medical marijuana business is located without regard to intervening stru
ctures.

In the event that two or more medical marijuana businesses are located within a 600-foot
radius of one another, only the medical marijuana business with the earliest issuance dat
e

on a City business tax registration or tax exemption certificate for its operation at the

location

may assert the limited immunity provided by this Article. The distance requirements set f
orth

in this subsection shall not apply to: (i) those licensed health care and other facilitie
s identified

in California Health and Safety Code Section 11362.7(d)(1); (ii) defeat the limited immun

ity

claim of a medical marijuana business that is otherwise entitled to assert the limited im
munity

provided by this Article if it moves within 180 days after the effective date of this Art
icle to a

location that does not violate the distance requirements; and (iii) a medical marijuana b
usiness

that violates the distance requirements because a sensitive use located within the prohib
ited

radius of the medical marijuana business after the date on which the City issued a City
business tax registration or tax exemption certificate to the medical marijuana business
for

its location.

The limited immunity provided by this Section shall not be available to and shall not be
asserted as an affirmative defense to any violation of law except as expressly set forth
in

this Article. Further, nothing contained in this limited immunity is intended to provide
or shall

be asserted as a defense to a claim for violation of law brought by any county, state, or
federal

governmental authority. Finally, the limited immunity provided by this Section shall be a
vailable

and may be asserted only so long as each and every provision and clause of subsections
A through D and G through 0 of this Section 45.19.6.3 remain valid, effective and operati
ve.

SEC. 45.19.6.4. CONFIDENTIALITY OF TAX INFORMATION.

The City shall not disclose information and documents to the federal government, its
officers, or agents regarding the gross receipts declared and taxes paid to the City by a
medical

marijuana business that is entitled to claim immunity pursuant to this Article absent a g
rand

jury subpoena, civil or administrative subpoena, warrant, discovery request, summons, cou
rt

order or similar process authorized under law which seeks the involuntary disclosure of s
uch

• information and documents. If the City receives a civil or administrative subpoena, war
rant,

discovery request, summons, court order or similar process authorized under law seeking
its involuntary disclosure of such information and documents to the federal government, i
ts

officers, or agents, the City shall provide a copy of the civil or administrative subpoen

a,

discovery request, or court order to the medical marijuana business whose information and
documents are sought. The medical marijuana business shall have ten (10) days from the
date of such notice and receipt of copy within which to obtain and serve on the City a pr
otective

order from a court of competent jurisdiction. This provision shall take precedence over a
ny

other provisions in the Los Angeles Municipal Code or the Los Angeles Administrative Code
governing the disclosure of information.

TXTD

42

May 2013

SEC. 45.19.6.5. NO AUTHORITY TO PERMIT USE IN ANY ZONE.

The use of any building, structure, location, premises or land for a medical marijuana
business is not currently enumerated in the Los Angeles Municipal Code as a permitted use
in any zone, nor is the use set forth on the Official Use List of the City as determined
and

maintained by the Zoning Administrator. So long as this Article remains in effect, the Zo
ning

Administrator shall not have the authority to determine that the use of any building, str
ucture,

location, premises or land as a medical marijuana business may be permitted in any zone;
to add medical marijuana business to the Official Use List of the City; or to grant any v
ariance

authorizing any medical marijuana business.

SEC. 45.19.6.6. NO VESTED OR NONCONFORMING RIGHTS.

This Article prohibits medical marijuana businesses. Neither this Article, nor any other
provision of this Code or action, failure to act, statement, representation, certificate,
approval,

or permit issued by the City or its departments, or their respective representatives, age
nts,

employees, attorneys or assigns, shall create, confer, or convey any vested or nonconform
ing

right or benefit regarding any medical marijuana business. Any immunity or benefit confer
red

by this ordinance shall expire permanently and in full on the effective date of the City
Council's

enactment of new medical marijuana legislation after the issuance of guidance by the
California Supreme Court guidance, or otherwise upon repeal of this ordinance.

SEC. 45.19.6.7. DUE PROCESS AND ENFORCEMENT.

All existing medical marijuana businesses must immediately cease operation; except
that any medical marijuana business that does not violate any of the medical marijuana
business restrictions described in Section 45.19.6.3, Limited Immunity, may continue to
operate but only so long as subsections A through D and G through of Section 45.19.6.3
remain valid, effective and operative.

As has always been the law in the City, any enforcement action by the City for failure
to comply with this Article shall be accompanied by due process. Every violation of this
Article and each day that a violation of this Article occurs shall constitute a separate
violation

and shall be subject to all criminal and civil remedies and enforcement measures authoriz
ed

by Sections 11.00 and 12.27.1 of this Code. In any enforcement proceeding pursuant to
Section 12.27.1, the notice required by Subsection C.l of Section 12.27.1 shall be provid
ed

only to the owner and lessee of the medical marijuana business, and shall not also be pro
vided

to other property owners within a 500-foot radius.

In the event a court of competent jurisdiction preliminarily or permanently enjoins, or
holds to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, any enforcement remedy provided for in
this Section 45.19.6.7, then the remainder of the enforcement remedies provided for by th
is

Section shall remain in full force and effect.

SEC. 45.19.6.8. LIMITED SEVERABILITY.

If any provision or clause of Section 45.1 9.6.3 of this Article is held to be unconstitu
tional

or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall invali
date

every other provision, clause and application of Section 45.19.6.3 of this Article, and t
o this

end the provisions and clauses of Section 45.19.6.3 of this Article are declared to be
inseverable. The preceding sentence notwithstanding, if subsection E or F of Section 45.1
9.6.3

UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1 M«»'3

is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdictio

n,

subsections E and F of Section 45.19.6.3 of this Article shall be severable from the rema
ining

subsections of Section 45.1 9.6.3 of this Article.

Except for the inseverability of the provisions, clauses and applications of Section
45.19.6.3 on the terms set forth hereinabove, if any other provision or clause of this Ar
tide

is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdictio
n, such

invalidity shall "not affect those provisions, clauses or applications of this Article wh
ich can

be implemented without the invalid provision, clause or application, and to this end the
provisions and clauses of this Article other than Section 45.19.6.3 are declared to be
severable.

SEC. 45.19.6.9. EFFECTIVE DATE.

This Article shall be effective upon its passage.

Section 2. Taxation of Medical Marijuana Collectives.

A.	Section 21 .50(b) of the Los Angeles Municipal Code is amended to change the tax
rate from $50 to $60, to read as follows:

(b) Every person engaged in operating or otherwise conducting a medical marijuana
collective not otherwise specifically taxed by other business tax provisions of this Chap
ter,

shall pay a business tax of $60.00 for each $1 ,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional pa
rt

thereof.

B.	Effective Date. This amendment to Section 21 .50(b) of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code to change the tax rate from $50 to $60 shall be effective upon the beginning of the
first tax year following passage of this ordinance.

Severability. If this Section 2 of this ordinance is found to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affec
t the

validity of the remaining provisions of this ordinance and, to this end, the provisions o
f Section

2 of this ordinance are declared to be severable from the remaining provisions of this
ordinance.

Section 3. Competing Measures. In the event that this measure and another measure

or measures relating to the regulation of medical marijuana in the City of Los Angeles ap

pear

on the same ballot, the provisions of the other measure or measures shall be deemed to be
in conflict with this measure. In the event that this measure shall receive a greater num
ber j

of affirmative votes than the other measure or measures, the provisions of this measure s
hall

prevail in their entirety over all provisions of the competing measure or measures, and t
he

competing measure or measures shall be null and void.

Section 4. Amendment and Repeal. As an ordinance submitted to the voters by the Los !
Angeles City Council, the provisions of this ordinance, other than the taxation provision

s j

contained in Section 2, shall be subject to amendment or repeal as provided in Section 46
4(b)

of the Los Angeles City Charter. The City shall amend or repeal this ordinance pursuant t
o

Charter Section 464(b) as may be appropriate in order to implement judicial rulings or
guidance from the California Supreme Court regarding what medical marijuana activities an
d

conduct California cities can and cannot regulate.

lllllilillllilHIIII!