Sample Ballot

& Voter’s Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED MUNICIPAL AND
SPECIAL DISTRICT ELECTIONS

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5,2013

Last day to register to vote in this election:
OCTOBER 21,2013

For Voting Information Call 600-8683 or Toll Free 1-800-742-1011
www.co.fresno.ca.usorwww.sos.ca.gov



POLLS OPEN AT 7:00 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8:00 P.M.

IF VOTING BY MAIL, YOUR VOTED BALLOT MUST BE RECEIVED BY FRESNO COUNTY
ELECTION OFFICIALS NO LATER THAN 8:00 P.M. ON ELECTION DAY.

Compiled by Brandi L. Orth
Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters

VOTE	Location on

HERE	back cover

VOTE	Vea	la

AQUI portada posterior

Boleta de Muestra

y Folleto del Elector	LAS URNAS ABREN A LAS 7:00 A-M- cierran a las 8:00 p.m.

ELECCION MUNICIPAL CONSOLIDADA

Y ELECCION ESPECIAL del DISTRITO	si USTED VOTA POR CORREO, SU BOLETA VOTADA DEBE SER RECIBIDA POR

MARTES, 5 DE noviembre del 2013	|_OS qfiCIALES DE ELECCIONES DEL CONDADO DE FRESNO A MAS TARDAR A

LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE DEL DIA DE LA ELECCION.

Compilada por Brandi L. Orth, Oficial del Registro Civil/Registradora de Electores
del Condado de Fresno.

El plazo para registrarse para votar en esta eleccion vence:
EL DIA 21 DE OCTUBRE DEL 2013

Para information sobre el proceso de votacion,
favor de llamar al telefono 600-8683 o sin cargo al 1-800-742-1011

OFFICIAL BALLOT / BOLETA OFICIAL

CONSOLIDATED MUNICIPAL AND SPECIAL DISTRICT ELECTIONS
ELECCION MUNICIPAL CONSOLIDADA Y ELECCION ESPECIAL DEL DISTRITO
NOVEMBER 5, 2013, FRESNO COUNTY / 5 DE NOVIEMBRE DEL 2013, CONDADO DE FRESNO

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS: You must use a black pen, blue pen or No. 2 pencil to completely fill in the oval to the left of your
choice. Fill in the whole oval, or your vote may not be counted.

INSTRUCCIONES AL ELECTOR: Utilice usted una pluma o boligrafo de tinta negra o azul, o bien un lapiz No. 2, para llenar
completamente el ovalo al lado izquierdo de su preferencia. Llene el ovalo completamente, para que su voto sea contado con
seguridad.

Fill in oval like this: • Llene el ovalo asi: •

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS / PROPUESTA SOMETIDA A LOS ELECTORES

CITY / CIUDAD

Measure P: Huron Police Safety and Crime Prevention Measure.

To hire additional police officers for crime suppression and prevention, increased police patrols to protect
neighborhoods, schools and parks and to purchase necessary related equipment or facilities to expand police
protection services, shall the City of Huron enact a One Cent ($0.01) sales taxes requiring that revenues receive
from such sales tax be used exclusively for public safety purposes?

Iniciativa de Ley P: Iniciativa de Ley de Seguridad y Prevencion del Crimen de la Policla de Huron.

A fin de contratar oficiales de policla adicionales para la supresion y prevencion del delito, aumentar las patrullas de
policla para proteger a los vecindarios, escuelas y parques y adquirir el equipo o las instalaciones relacionadas y
necesarias para ampliar los servicios de proteccion de la policla, <j,debe la Ciudad de Huron promulgar un impuesto
a las ventas de Un Centavo ($0.01) requiriendo que los ingresos provenientes de dicho impuesto de las ventas sea
usado exclusivamente para propositos de seguridad publica?

OYES, SI

O NO, NO

BT 006

FRONT Card 4 RptPct 14-10 ”0000881'

FR 006-003

CITY OF HURON
HURON POLICE SAFETY AND CRIME PREVENTION MEASURE

MEASURE P

To hire additional police officers for crime suppression and prevention, increased police patrols to protect neighborhoods, schools and
parks and to purchase necessary related equipment or facilities to expand police protection services, shall the City of Huron enact a One
Cent ($0.01) sales taxes requiring that revenues receive from such sales tax be used exclusively for public safety purposes?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE
ORDINANCE NO. 366

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF HURON REPEALING AND REENACTING CHAPTER 3.12 OF TITLE III OF
THE HURON MUNICIPAL CODE, ENACTING A SPECIAL ONE CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR THE IMPROVEMENT
OF PUBLIC SAFETY TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HURON DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Chapter 3.16 of Title III of the Huron Municipal Code is hereby repealed and reenacted to read as follows:

“3.16.010. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Huron Public Safety Special Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of
Huron hereinafter shall be called “City”. This Ordinance shall be applicable to the incorporated territory of the City.

3.16.020. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after
the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

3.16.030. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof
be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a special retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt
this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the enactment of the tax
at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax
Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be admin-
istered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

3.16.404. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to per-
form all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall
not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case
the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.16.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a special tax is hereby im-
posed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance. Such tax shall be in addition
to any other transactions tax imposed by this Code or applicable State law.

3.16.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated
shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.16.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said ter-
ritory at the rate of 1% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject
to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. Such special tax shall be in addition to any other use tax
imposed by this Code or applicable State law.

3.16.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commenc-
ing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though
fully set forth herein.

3.16.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1

HMPE-1

FR 006-005

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted
therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board
of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation
of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible per-
sonal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject
to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.16.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.16.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use
Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or con-
sumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers
of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of
sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (com-
mencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to
an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax enacted by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tan-
gible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered trans-
actions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate
of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemp-
tion is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the

HMPE-2

FR 006-006

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease
which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use
tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within
the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840)
of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel,
or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use
tax.

5-2.5-12. AMENDMENTS.

A. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance unless any
increase in the rate of this tax is first approved by 2/3 of the voters of the City of Huron voting on such question.

B.	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9217 or any successor statute, the City Council of the City of Huron may
amend or repeal this ordinance and any of its exhibits, but not increase or extend the rate of tax imposed herein, without a vote of the
people.

3.16.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue
in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

3.16.140. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

3.16.150. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS AND EXPENDITURE PLAN. All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be
accounted for and paid into a Public Safety Fund or special account designated for use by the City of Huron only for the Public Safety
Services and expenditures. All revenues net of expenses derived from the tax must be expended exclusively for the support of the Hu-
ron Police Department according to this Expenditure Plan. The revenues from the tax may be expended on the payment of salaries and
benefits of sworn peace officers of the City of Huron and/or the payment of the costs of equipment and capital improvements required
for the operation of the Huron Police Department. The funds are to be exclusively utilized for public safety, police protection services,
within the City of Huron. No funds can be taken by the State or another government agency - all funds can only be spent within the
City of Huron for the purposes of improving Public Safety. These purposes include: obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining
police protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police protection personnel, and such other police protec-
tion service expenses as are deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of the safety of residents of the City and consistent
with this Expenditure Plan. No revenues collected pursuant to the tax levied may be spent on department administrators’ salaries, or
General Fund operating expenses in effect at the time this ordinance becomes effective.”

Section 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall
take effect 10 days following certification of the vote by the City Council.

Section 3. The City Clerk shall certify the passage of this ordinance, publish the same as required by applicable law, and forward a
copy of the adopted ordinance to the Board of Equalization.

HMPE-3

FR 006-007

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

THE CITY OF HURON TRANSACTION AND USE TAX MEASURE
[ELECTION CODE §9280]

On July 3, 2013, the City Council of the City of Huron adopted Ordinance No. 366, enacting a special one cent transactions and use tax
(sales tax) for the improvement of public safety. The Council also adopted a resolution approving the ordinance and ordering that the
measure to adopt the special tax be submitted to the voters of the City at the general election to be held on November 5, 2013. Measure
P provides for an increase in the sales tax by one cent and makes the tax applicable to all retail sales, use or consumption of tangible
personal property occurring in the incorporated territory of the City.

The one cent increase in the sales tax provided for by Measure P is a special tax which the City Council is authorized to enact pursuant
to Revenue and Taxation Code §7285.91, but the tax is only operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the enactment of the tax. Article VI11C of the California Constitution (Proposition 218) requires that any increase in any tax rate be
approved by the voters, and requires a two-thirds vote of the electors to approve a special tax. The sales tax increase provided for by
Measure P is a special tax; that is, one that generates revenues that are required to be expended for specifically designated purposes.

All proceeds of the additional one cent sales tax are required to be accounted for and paid into a public safety fund for use by the City
of Huron only for public safety services and expenditures. The revenues from the tax must be exclusively expended on the payment
of salaries and benefits of sworn peace officers of the City of Huron Police Department and/or the payment of cost of equipment and
capital improvements required for the operation of the Huron Police Department. No funds can be spent for general governmental
purposes. The ordinance imposing the one cent sales tax specifically prohibits any revenues collected pursuant to this tax from being
spent on department administrator’s salaries or general fund operating expenses of the City. The ordinance that would become effective
upon passage of Measure P includes an expenditure plan limiting the purposes for which the revenues from the tax increase may be
expended to obtaining, furnishing, operating and/or maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, and paying the salaries and
benefits of police protection personnel, and related capital expenditures.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 366 and Measure “P”. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or Measure,
please call the Election’s Official’s Office at (559) 488-3246 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

s/Neal E. Costanzo
City Attorney for the City of Huron

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Measure P will provide the City with the money necessary to continue to provide police protection and services to the residents of
Huron. Measure P provides for an increase in the sales tax applicable to all retail sales occurring in the City of Huron. The increase
is one penny. To become effective, the increase must be approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the Measure on November 5,
2013.

The one cent increase is what is referred to as a “special tax” because the revenues are dedicated and required to be used for
a specifically designated purpose. The proposed one cent increase in the sales tax, if approved, would be paid into a public safety
fund and could be used only for the purposes of public safety services and expenditures. That means the revenues from the tax must
exclusively be used for the payment of salaries or benefits of sworn police officers or for the payment of cost of equipment or capital
improvements required for the operation of the Huron Police Department.

None of the revenue generated can be used for administrative salaries or other expenses of the City funded by the General Fund.
Currently, the operations of the Police Department are funded exclusively through the City’s General Fund and there is insufficient
money available to operate the Police Department and provide suitable Police protection services for City neighborhoods, parks and
schools. The one cent sales tax increase will permit the City to enhance the level of police protection and presence in our City which is
sorely needed to suppress gang activity and violent crime in the City.

s/Sylvia V. Chavez
Mayor

s/Hilda R. Plasencia
Mayor Pro-tern

s/Louis C. Rodriguez
Councilmember

s/Mike A. Morales
Councilmember

s/Roberto C. Pimentel
Councilmember

HMPE-4

FR 006-008