MEASURE C
CITY OF ANTIOCH

RESTORING ANTIOCH SERVICES SALES TAX.

To fund all essential city services including increased police staffing to
reduce crime and gang activities and improve 911 emergency response
time; restored code enforcement to clean up blighted properties; and
local economic development and job creation, shall the City of Antioch
adopt a one-half cent transactions and use (sales) tax, expiring in seven
years, with mandatory annual audits and independent citizens’ oversight
and for local Antioch use only?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE C

The City Council of the City of Antioch has declared a fiscal emergency.
This is due to the $13 million reduction in the City’s annual general fund
revenues; depletion of reserves; and decreased level of essential City
services.

The City Council voted unanimously to put Measure C on the ballot to
ask voters to approve a temporary one-half of one percent (0.5%) sales
(transactions and use) tax. This means one-half of one cent would be
added to the price of a taxable item that costs a dollar. The increase
would terminate automatically in seven years after collection begins.

Audit and Citizens’ Oversight Committee

Each year, an independent auditor would complete a public audit report
of the revenue raised and its expenditure. A Citizens’ Oversight
Committee would review the expenditures and report publicly. The
report would be part of the public record. The Committee would be
composed of seven Antioch residents appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council.

General Revenue for All City Services

The revenue would be deposited in the City’s general fund. It could be
used for any legal municipal purpose including: police and emergency
response; code enforcement; local economic development and job
creation; street repair; and any other City program and service.

Allocation and Administration

The City receives 0.75% of the current sales tax, with most of it going to
the State of California (7.25%); along with Contra Costa County (0.25%),
the Contra Costa Transportation Authority (0.50%), and BART (0.50%).

Measure C would increase the sales tax by .50% for seven years starting
April 1, 2014. The temporarily increased amount would only go to the
City of Antioch and not the State, County, Transportation Authority or
BART.

The existing sales tax is levied on the sale or use of tangible personal
property sold at retail, with some exceptions. Retailers collect the tax
and forward it to the State Board of Equalization to allocate. The
additional amount would be collected in the same way.

Effect of Measure

Measure C, also known as the “Restoring Antioch Services Sales Tax,”
would add an ordinance to the Antioch Municipal Code to impose the
temporary sales tax increase. The State Board of Equalization approved
the ordinance language.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the additional half-cent sales tax for
seven years. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax. If the Measure
receives a majority of “Yes” votes, it will be approved.

Respectfully submitted,

Lynn Tracy Nerland
Antioch City Attorney

The above statement is an Impartial Analysis of Measure C. If you
desire a copy of the Full Text of the Measure/ “Ordinance of the City
of Antioch Imposing a Transactions and Use Tax to be
Administered by the State Board of Equalization,” please call the
City Clerk of the City of Antioch at 925-779-7009 and a copy will be
mailed at no cost to you. You may also view the Full Text of the
Measure C at www.ci.antioch.ca.us.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE C

A Yes on Measure C will allow us to immediately hire 22 new police
officers, decreasing the time it takes to respond to 911 calls. It will also
provide funds to reduce the number of gang-related homicides, assaults
and robberies.

Our police force has dwindled from 126 officers four years ago to only 89
today. 911 response times have increased and violent crime is up 30%.

1

We feel unsafe in our homes and are in constant fear of becoming
victims of crime.

The budget crisis has forced the near-closing of Antioch’s Code
Enforcement Department. We need to resume inspections on foreclosed
and abandoned properties to force absent property owners to clean up
blight and evict tenants dealing drugs.

A Yes on Measure C will give us immediate funds to begin cleaning up
Antioch’s blighted properties. (Go to CleanUpAntioch.com to register the
address of a blighted property you would like to add to the cleanup list.)

Measure C would temporarily raise the sales tax by % cent for seven
years - generating $4.3 million a year for additional police and cleaning
up abandoned properties. To increase accountability, Measure C has a
fixed end date and requires independent annual spending audits and
strict citizens’ review.

Antioch is in a State of Emergency, and we must come together to
restore our quality of life. We need immediate funding to “turn Antioch
around” - to lower crime and cleanup abandoned properties.

The City workforce has been cut nearly 40%; city employees, including
police, have substantially reduced their health/retirement benefits. City
services have been scaled down to skeletal levels. Yet we still face a
$3.6 million deficit.

Antioch needs funds now to lower crime and to cleanup dilapidated
properties. Your voting Yes on Measure C will give us the financial boost
we need to turn Antioch around. Thank you.

Sergeant Tom Fuhrmann
President, Antioch Police
Officers’ Association

Joyann Motts
President, Antioch Unified
School Board

Antioch City Council

Wade Harper, Mayor of Antioch/

Retired Police Lieutenant

Brittney Gougeon
Founder, Take Back Antioch

Hans Ho

Past Chair, Antioch Crime
Prevention Commission/
Neighborhood Watch
Coordinator

2

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE C

Vote "NO" on increasing your Sales Tax to 9 cents on the $1 for all
taxable items purchased. The State just raised gasoline taxes by 3.5
cents more per gallon! Antioch's proposed tax increase also affects jobs
and businesses (it'll drive customers elsewhere)! More taxes doesn't
mean better decisions. It'll benefit those favoring its passage and those
receiving increased raises, benefits, and extremely generous pensions!
Pay more, get less!

Antioch's Police salaries, retirement pay, and benefits have
significantly increased again, making the public pay more! Some
employees' outrageous estimated salaries' and benefits' costs; City
Manager $350,000; Chief $330,000; Lts. $285,000; Sgts. $240,000;
Corporals $200,000; Officers $180,000.

APOA always vigorously insisted on pay and benefit increases for
themselves, not more manpower! Police recently received 9% in wage
increases (and 4% more effective on 9/1/13), more guaranteed yearly
increases, costly multi year contracts, keeping their costly "3% at 50"
pension package. The public gets far less, some with no retirement at
all. It's shameful!

This General Fund tax can be used however any Council majority (3)
wants! They haven't listened to you before! You alone are the best
"Oversight" on how your money's spent, not their Appointees!

They're again using scare tactics to just tax you more! You shouldn't
pay for their uncontrolled overspending and mismanagement! The
Council majorities caused this, not you!

Property values are continuing to increase and as adjustments are
made the City will receive more tax revenue! This tax increase is
unnecessary! We have continuing increases in costs for utilities, sewer,
groceries, medical, and unemployment! Antioch's already raised water,
garbage rates, business fees, etc. Enough already!

3

Increasing existing taxes isn't the solution! City officials must do more
to cut costs! Stop overspending, and definitely cut back excessive
salaries and benefits for those overcompensated employees.

Vote "NO"

Citizens for Democracy

By - Ralph A. Hernandez, Chairperson

and former Antioch City Council member

Norma A. Hernandez
CFD’s Senior Citizens’
Representative and
Former Antioch City
Council member

4