Exhibit 1

ORDINANCE NO. 201 3-07"09“1 601

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF STOCKTON ENACTING A GENERAL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, UPON ADOPTION BY THE VOTERS

The people of the City of Stockton do ordain as follows:

Section 1. Title. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Stockton Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance.

Section 2. Definitions. The following words and phrases shall be defined as set forth
in this Ordinance, except that any term or phrase not defined in this Ordinance shall
have the same meaning as that term or phrase is defined in the California Revenue and
Taxation Code, Division 2, Parts 1.6 and 1.7:

A.	“City” means the City of Stockton.

B.	“Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance by vote of the electorate
on November 5, 2013.

C.	“Ordinance” means the City of Stockton Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.

D.	“State” means the State of California.

Section 3. Purpose. This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following among other
purposes, and the Ordinance shall be interpreted liberally in order to accomplish all of
its lawful purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax to be applied throughout the entire
territory of the City to the fullest extent permitted by law and in accordance with
the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which
authorizes the City to adopt this Ordinance if a majority of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for
that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar
as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

1

SCANNED

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure that can be administered and collected by the State Board
of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in
a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize
the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes and, at the same time,
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under
the provisions of this Ordinance.

E.	To provide transactions and use tax revenue to the City to be used for the
general governmental purposes of the City, with any transactions and use tax
revenue received being placed into the City’s general fund.

Section 4. Contract with the State. Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this Ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the Operative Date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the Operative Date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a transactions tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 0.75% of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail within the territory of the City
on and after the Operative Date of this Ordinance.

Section 6. Place of Sale. For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to
a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from
such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

Section 7. Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer
on and after the Operative Date of this Ordinance for storage, use or other consumption
in the territory of the City at the rate of 0.75% of the sales price of the property. The

2

sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to State sales
or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as otherwise provided in
this Ordinance, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted, incorporated, and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set
forth herein.

Section 9. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes. In

adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
the City shall be substituted. However, this substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of the substitution would require action to be taken by or
against the City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from the tax in this Ordinance with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from the
tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the State under the same provision of that code.

4.	In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in section 6203.

3

Section 10. Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer
under section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s
permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

Section 11. Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use
tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government;

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City, which is shipped to a point
outside the City pursuant to the contract of sale by delivery to such point
by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this
paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that
address.

4

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the Operative Date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the Operative Date
of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance;

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California;

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this
Ordinance;

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
Operative Date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which

5

any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall
be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the Effective Date of this
Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales
and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become adopted and
part of this Ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance. The City Council or the City’s voters
may amend this Ordinance to comply with applicable law or as may be otherwise
necessary to further the Ordinance’s stated purposes. However, as required by Article
XIII C of the California Constitution, no amendment to this Ordinance may increase the
rates of the taxes authorized by this Ordinance unless such amendment is submitted to
and approved by the voters.

Section 13. Prohibition on Enjoining Collection. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court
against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected under this
Ordinance.

6

Section 14. Severability. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

Section 15. Effective Date. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of City
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately. However, no tax imposed
by this Ordinance shall be effective unless that tax has been approved by the voters of
the City as required by section 2(b) of Article XIII C of the California Constitution and
applicable law.

Section 16. Precedence over Other Provisions in the Municipal Code. Any

provision of the Stockton Municipal Code or appendices thereto inconsistent with the
provisions of this Ordinance, to the extent of such inconsistency and no further, is
hereby repealed or modified to the extent necessary to effect the provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 17. Sunset of Tax. (a) The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall remain
effective until the soonest to occur of the following: (i) the City Council repeals, or the
voters repeal, this Ordinance; (ii) the City Council determines that the City has
experienced economic recovery as defined in Section 18 of this ordinance, or (iii) ten
(10) years from the date the taxes imposed by this Ordinance are first collected.
However, the voters hereby authorize the Council to extend the sunset of the taxes
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 17.

(b)	The City Council may extend the sunset of the taxes imposed by this Ordinance
as follows. The Council shall hold two publicly noticed meetings at least 14 days apart
and shall adopt findings based on evidence before it that: (i) the revenues provided by
the taxes imposed by this Ordinance continue to be necessary to accomplish the
purposes stated in Section 21 of this Ordinance and (ii) the total compensation paid to
City employees is not excessive when compared to those of other similarly situated
public-sector employers.

Section 18. Economic Recovery Review. Peak revenues to the City’s general fund
occurred in fiscal year 2008-2009, when the City received approximately $203,101,529
in such revenues. In the event the City, during any fiscal year in which this Ordinance is
in effect, receives general fund (excluding amounts of such revenues transferred by the
City to San Joaquin County pursuant to any tax sharing agreement, and excluding
revenues under this Ordinance) in excess of the peak amount reached in fiscal year
2008-2009 adjusted for inflation from July 1,2008 to the date of measurement using an
average of the Consumer Price Indices for All Urban Consumers (1982-84=100) (CPI-
U) for (i) U.S. City Average; (ii) San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose; and (iii) Western
Urban, then the City Council shall hold a noticed public hearing to consider whether to
reduce or eliminate the tax imposed by this Ordinance.

7

Section 19. Citizen Oversight. The City Council shall appoint a seven-member
Citizens’ Advisory Committee, which shall meet at least annually to review the
expenditure of revenues generated by the tax imposed by this Ordinance and to make
recommendations to the City Council regarding those expenditures. The minutes of
Citizens’ Advisory Committee meetings shall be provided to the City Council and placed
on the next available regular Council meeting agenda thereafter. The Citizens’
Advisory Committee shall also review progress toward peak general fund revenues as
described in section 18 of this Ordinance and any findings made by the City Council
under that section or section 17, subdivision (b).

Section 20. Audit and Review. The proceeds of the tax imposed by this Ordinance,
as well as the expenditure thereof, shall be audited annually by an independent
accounting firm. The City Council shall discuss the results of such audit at a meeting of
the City Council that is open to the public. The report of such audit shall be posted on
the City’s website.

Section 21. Declaration. The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this Ordinance may
be used for any lawful purpose of the City, as authorized by ordinance, resolution or
action of the City Council. These taxes are not special taxes within the meaning of
section 1, subdivision (d) of Article XIII C of the California Constitution, but are general
taxes imposed for general governmental purposes.

Section 22. Execution. The Mayor shall sign and the City Clerk shall attest to the
passage of this Ordinance upon certification by the City Council of the results of the
election approving this Ordinance.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Stockton, on July 9,
2013, by the following vote:

AYES: Councilmember Burgos, Council-member Holman, Councilmember Miller

Councilmember Tubbs, Councilmember Zapien, Vice Mayor Canepa,Mayor Silva

NOES: „

o

ABSENT: 0

8

I hereby certify that this Ordinance was APPROVED by the voters of the City of
Stockton, State of California, at a general election held on November 5, 2013, and by

the City Council of the City of Stockton at a regular meeting of the Council held on____

_______________,	2013.

ATTEST:

ANTHONY SILVA, Mayor of
the City of Stockton

BONNIE PAIGE, Clerk of
the City of Stockton

9

Exhibit 2

AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into on _______________________ between the

COUNTY OF SAN JOAQUIN, a political subdivision of the State of California,
hereinafter called “COUNTY,” and THE CITY OF STOCKTON, a municipal corporation,
hereinafter called “CITY.”

WUNESSETH

WHEREAS, the City Council is calling for the consolidation of the November 5,
2013, Special District Election; and CITY desires to make use of certain services,
facilities, and equipment of the Registrar of Voters’ Office of COUNTY and to pay
COUNTY for the CITY’S proportion of the cost thereof, pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement;

NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:

1.	COUNTY agrees to make no changes in precinct boundaries within
eighty-eight (88) days of the November 5, 2013, Special District Election.

2.	COUNTY agrees that the Registrar of Voters’ Office shall perform the
following services for CITY:

(a)	Furnish the governing body of CITY, upon request of the City
Clerk, with up to four (4) copies of the index of registration for each precinct contained in
whole or part within the City of Stockton boundaries, not less than twenty-five (25) days
prior to the election.

(b)	Furnish one map showing all regular precincts embraced in
whole or part of the City of Stockton.

(c)	Address and mail voters’ pamphlets containing sample
ballot, vote-by-mail information and any other election matter required to be mailed to
the voters.

(d)	Prepare list of number of registered voters in each precinct.

(e)	Prepare index to precinct consolidation as to polling places.

(f)	Prepare precinct consolidations, labels for sample ballots.

precincts.

(g)	Check and package official ballots for consolidated

(h)	Package election supplies for delivery to precinct inspectors,
it being understood COUNTY will arrange for delivery of same.

(i)	Provide for delivery and return of ballot boxes, election
booths, chairs, tables, etc., to polling places, it being understood that delivery and return
will be made by COUNTY.

(j)	Perform such other election-related services at the request
of the City Clerk as may be required by law.

(k)	Select the polling place and election officers and mail the
Notice of Appointment to the election officers.

(l)	Confirm the results of the elections for submission to the City
Council as soon as possible and no later than the day required by the City Charter.

(m)	Prepare and provide a billing spreadsheet in a format similar

to Attachment A.

3.	In performing its duties under this Agreement, COUNTY shall comply with
all applicable Federal and State laws, including the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

4.	The City agrees to:

(a)	Pay its proportion of the costs of publications of the polling
places and the election officers.

(b)	Pay COUNTY its proportion of the costs for all services,
facilities, and equipment furnished by COUNTY to CITY in connection with said Election
upon receipt by CITY of a billing spreadsheet and statement from the Registrar of
Voters setting forth the actual cost of COUNTY for services, facilities, and equipment so
furnished. COUNTY will endeavor to keep all expenses to a minimum.

5.

Indemnification:

COUNTY shall indemnify, defend, and hold CITY, its officers, agents,
employees, and assigns, harmless from any claim, expense, payment, or for any injury,
death, or damage to any person or property arising out of the COUNTY’S performance
under this Agreement, including any violation of applicable Federal and State law,
unless any such injury, damage, or liability arises by virtue of the negligence, as
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, on the part of CITY, its officers, agents,
employees, or assigns.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands on
the date first written above.

COUNTY OF SAN JOAQUIN,
a Political Subdivision of the
State of California

Chairperson

"COUNTY”

ATTEST: MIMI DUZENSKI
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
Of the County of San Joaquin
State of California

BY

APPROVED AS TO FORM

BY:____________________________

County Counsel

ATTEST:	CITY	OF	STOCKTON,	A

Municipal Corporation

BONNIE PAIGE
CITY CLERK

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

BOB DEIS
CTY MANAGER
“CITY”

JOHN M. LUEBBERKE
CITY ATTORNEY