RESOLUTION NO. 2013/37

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ANTIOCH
AMENDING SECTION 8 OF CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION NO. 2013/33
TO EXTEND THE DATE FOR FILING BALLOT ARGUMENTS FROM JULY 9, 2013
TO 5:00 P.M. FRIDAY, AUGUST 16,2013 FOR THE BALLOT MEASURE ON
RESTORING ANTIOCH SERVICES SALES TAX

WHEREAS, on June 25,2013, the City Council adopted Resolution No, 2013/33, which is
attached as Attachment A and includes Exhibit 1 (Ordinance) and is incorporated into this
Resolution; and-

WHEREAS, City Council Resolution No. 2013/33 declared a fiscal emergency and called
for a municipal election on November 5, 2013 to present to the voters a measure to adopt a
temporary one-half cent transactions and use (sales) tax to fund all essential City services including
police, code enforcement and economic development; and

WHEREAS, Cjty Council Resolution No. 2013/33 established 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, July 9,
2013 as the deadline for the filing of any ballot arguments and the Impartial Analysis; and

WHEREAS, despite numerous prior communications with the County Elections Office,
which also reviewed the draft of Resolution No. 2013/33; on July 8, 2013 Joseph Canciamilla,
County Clerk-Recorder and Registrar of Voters, decided that the City of Antioch must extend the
deadline for ballot arguments until 5:00 p.m. on Friday, August 16, 2013;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ANTIOCH DOES
RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS that:

1.	Section 8 of Resolution No. 2013/33, “Submission of Ballot Arguments” is amended in its
entirety to read as follows:

“The City Clerk’s Office, at the direction of the County Clerk-Recorder and Registrar of
Voters, has fixed 5:00 p.m, Friday, August 16, 2013 as the deadline for submittal of
arguments for or against the measure.

The direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred (300) words, and shall not be signed by
more than five (5) persons. The City Council does not adopt the provisions of Elections Code
Section 9285(a); there shall be no rebuttal arguments.”

2.	The City Clerk shall keep any ballot arguments and the Impartial Analysis confidential until
5:00 p.m. on Friday, August 16, 2013 at which time they will be provided to the County
Elections Office. Pursuant to Elections Code section 9163, any ballot arguments that are
submitted early may be changed up to 5:00 p.m. on Friday, August 16, 2013.

3.	All other provisions of Resolution No. 2013/33 remain in effect.

4.	The City Clerk shall make arrangements to have City Hall opened on Friday, August 16,
2013 to accept any ballot arguments.

* * * *

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was passed and adopted by the City
Council of the City of Antioch at a regular meeting thereof, held on the 9th day of July, 2013, by the
following vote:

AYES:	Council	Members	Wilson,	Rocha,	Tiscareno,	Agopian	and	Mayor	Harper

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

Page 2 of 2

RESOLUTION NO. 2013/33

Attachment A

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ANTIOCH
DECLARING A FISCAL EMERGENCY;

CALLING FOR AND NOTICING A MUNICIPAL ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 5,2013
TO PRESENT TO VOTERS A MEASURE TO ADOPT
A TEMPORARY ONE-HALF CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX
TO FUND ALL ESSENTIAL ANTIOCH CITY SERVICES
INCLUDING POLICE, CODE ENFORCEMENT AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

WHEREAS, the Antioch City Council desires to place a ballot measure before the voters at
the November 5,2013 election to adopt a temporary Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax Ordinance, as
authorized by California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 and attached as Exhibit 1; and

WHEREAS, the State’s dissolution of redevelopment agencies including the Antioch
Development Agency has exacerbated a fiscal emergency in the City caused by State takeaways, the
economic recession and significant decreases in property values, reducing the City’s General Fund
revenues by almost $13 million since 2007; and

WHEREAS, this drastic reduction in the City’s General Fund required severe cuts to City
services, including reduced Police services with the elimination of School Resource Officers and
Traffic Enforcement, virtual elimination of Code Enforcement, reduced street repairs and
maintenance, reduced services at the Animal Shelter and Recreation Programs and less access to the
public given the weekly closures of City Hall; and

WHEREAS, providing pre-recession service levels and access would require at least $11.3
million in additional revenues annually, plus $3.6 million to address the current deficit; $1.3 million
to restore an operating reserve to protect the City in the event of catastrophe; and $1.5 million to
repay a loan from the City’s equipment replacement funds; and

WHEREAS, the City has already taken extreme and painful measures to mitigate the
increasing budget shortfalls, including: reducing staffing by 40%; decreasing management salaries
and employee work hours through furloughs; reducing overtime; increasing employee contributions
to retirement costs and drastically reducing post-employment medical benefits for new employees;
eliminating employee cost of living increases; reducing supply and equipment costs and deferring
equipment maintenance; and

WHEREAS, violent crime increased 30.6 % and property crime increased 22.8% in Antioch
compared to 2011, with Police Department staffing down to 87 officers (from 102 currently
authorized and 126 at peak staffing) and average response time to Priority 1 calls increased over 2
minutes; an average of 25 calls per week for Code Enforcement services cannot be timely returned;
and needed street rehabilitation and maintenance with an estimated cost of $52 million is unfunded;
and

WHEREAS, confirming existing business license taxes and imposing a residential landlord
business license tax as general taxes, the revenues of which are legally required to stay in Antioch to
maintain local services for general governmental purposes vital to the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized to request and order that this election be
consolidated with other elections to be held on the same day and in the same territory (California
Elections Code 10400 et seq.)\ and

WHEREAS, it is urgent that the Special Municipal Election be consolidated with the
elections to be held on November 5, 2013 and desirable that within the City, the precincts, polling
places, and election officers for the two elections be the same; that the Board of Supervisors canvass
the returns of the City ballot measure election; and said City election and the November 5, 2013
general election be held in all respects as if there were only one election;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ANTIOCH DOES
RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1.	Call for Election

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XHIC, Section 2, Government Code Section 53724, and
Elections Code Section 9222, the City Council of the City of Antioch hereby calls an election and
hereby submits to the qualified voters of the City a measure that, if approved, would adopt a
temporary general transactions and use tax, as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section
7285,9. This measure shall be designated by letter by the Contra Costa County Elections Department.
Pursuant to Election Code Section 10400 et seq., the election for this measure shall be consolidated
with the established election to be conducted on November 5, 2013.

Section 2.	Ballot Language

The question to be presented to the voters shall be as follows:

RESTORING ANTIOCH SERVICES SALES TAX.	YES	
To fund all essential city services including increased police staffing to reduce crime and gang activities and improve 911 emergency response time; restored code enforcement to clean up blighted properties; and local economic development and job creation, shall the City of Antioch adopt a one-half cent transactions and use (sales) tax, expiring in seven years, with mandatory annual audits and independent citizens’ oversight and for local Antioch use only?		
	NO	

The measure shall be designated on the ballot by a letter printed on the left margin of the square
containing the description of the measure, as provided in California Election Code section 13116.

Section 3. Fiscal Emergency Findings

Pursuant to Cal. Constitution Article XKEC, Section 2(b), increases in general taxes must be
submitted to the voters at a regularly scheduled general election of the City, except in cases of
emergency declared by a unanimous vote of the City Council. The City may expend the proceeds of
the taxes to be imposed by this measure for any lawful purpose of the City. Therefore, this

Page 2 of 10

Resolution, including the submission of the proposed Ordinance (attached as Exhibit 1) must be
approved by a unanimous vote of the City Council. This Resolution shall become effective
immediately upon its passage and adoption. The City Council’s emergency findings are set forth
below.

In accordance with California Constitution Article XHEC, Section 2(b), the City Council finds that
emergency conditions exist necessitating the placement of this tax measure on the November 5,2013
ballot to replenish the City’s general fund as soon as possible to avoid peril to the community, which
already suffers more than most due to increasing crime rates, stark declines in housing prices causing
a great number of foreclosures with the resultant detriment to the community, disturbing truancy and
high school drop-out rates and high unemployment rates.

In particular, the City Council makes the following findings in addition to the discussions that
occurred at City Council meetings on February 26, March 12, March 26, May 14, May 28, June 11
and June 25, 2013 (those staff reports and attachments are incorporated into the City Council’s
findings and can be found on the City’s website at
http://www.ci.antioch.ca.us/citygov/agendas/default.asp), and the significant amount of information
related to the City’s fiscal emergency set forth in the budget staff report being considered on June 25,
2013 (this staff report is incorporated into the City Council’s findings and can be found on the City’s
website at http://www.ci.antioch.ca.us/citygov/agendas/default.asp):

1.	Extreme and Painful Measures already taken to address Anticoh’s Fiscal Emergency. The
City has taken extreme and painful measures to address the $13 million decrease in General Fund
revenues since 2007 and to mitigate increasing budget shortfalls, including:

•	operating at 40% staffing reduction through layoffs, retirements and not filling
vacancies including the elimination of code enforcement staff, community services
officers (CSOs), school resource officers, traffic and other special police units;

•	reducing management salaries and employee work hours through furloughs and
reduced overtime for all employees since July 2009;

•	increasing employee contributions to retirement costs and drastically reducing
post-retirement medical benefits for new employees;

•	eliminating employee cost of living increases from 2009 to 2011;

•	reducing supply and equipment costs and deferring vehicle and equipment
maintenance; and

•	reducing services at the Animal Shelter and in Recreation Programs.

Page 3 of 10

2.	Serious Budget Issues Remain, Despite these painful measures, serious budget issues
remain:

•	The City’s General Fund revenues (primarily funded property and sales taxes) have
dropped almost $ 13M since 2007 (excluding one-time monies). This required severe
cuts to City services and less access to the public given the weekly closures of City
Hall. Providing pre-recession service levels and access would require at least $11.3
million in additional revenues annually.

•	In Fiscal Year 2014, the City is projected to spend $3.6 million more than it receives
in revenues. This results in an “unbalanced” budget and deficit spending, which
forces the City to use reserves to fund a minimum level of services. Deficit spending
is projected to increase to $4.7 million in Fiscal Year 2015 nearly exhausting the
City’s reserves.

•	Sound financial practice, recommended by the Government Finance Officers
Association (GFOA) requires a fund balance of at least two months’ operating
expenditures to provide financial stability in the face of such uncertainties as
economic crisis, catastrophic incidents and litigation costs. This is similar to a
personal savings account consumers are recommended to have to cover mortgage,
insurance, utilities, etc. in times of financial instability due to catastrophic events like
job loss, disability, recession, etc. In fiscal year 2014, the City should have at least
$6.6 million in reserves. However under current projections, the City will be
approximately $1.3 million short.

•	In Fiscal Year 2010, the City’s General Fund transferred $1.5 million in funds
identified to replace the City’s aging vehicles and computer systems. Three years
later, these funds have still not been re-paid. Repayment of these funds would cause
an immediate $1.5 million loss in General Fund balance/reserves, further reducing
the City’s operating reserve. As a result of this borrowing, replacement of aging
vehicles and computer equipment has been deferred, increasing the need for
continued maintenance costs to extend the useful lives as long as possible.

•	The City continues to fund post-retirement medical benefits and supplementary
retirement plan benefits on a pay as you go basis, creating a net Other Post
Employment Benefit (OPEB) obligation of $ 1.054 million as of June 30,2012 and an
unfunded actuarial accrued liability of $30.1 million (as of July 1, 2011 valuation
date) as to the post-retirement medical benefits; a Net Pension Obligation of
$354,764 as of June 30, 2012 and an unfunded actuarial accrued liability of $1.7
million (as of June 30,2011 valuation date) as to supplementary retirement benefits;
and although the City continues to pay the full actuarial required contribution for
PERS, massive investment losses in the CalPERS system over the last several years
have contributed to the City having an unfunded pension liability of $45 million (as
of June 30, 2011 valuation date).

Page 4 of 10

3.	The State’s Elimination of Redevelopment and Grab of Local Funds Has Exacerbated the
City’s Fiscal Condition. The State’s elimination of redevelopment agencies, and particularly the
Antioch Development Agency, has exacerbated the City’s precarious fiscal status. On December 29,
2011, the California Supreme Court in California Redevelopment Association v. Matosantos ordered
the immediate dissolution of all redevelopment agencies including the Antioch Development
Agency. This undercut the City’s ability to redevelop its older downtown Riverfront area, maintain
the Marina and waterfront and placed an additional burden on the General Fund for capital
improvement projects. Over the past ten years the Redevelopment Agency spent $10.8 million on
public works projects. Through its General Fund, the City must fund a minimal maintenance
program for capital improvements, exposing the City to higher replacement costs in the near future.
Further, under the “claw back” provision of AB 1x26, other City funds may be forced to transfer an
estimated $790,958 to the redevelopment successor agency, and ultimately the State.

The elimination of redevelopment has also impacted the City’s ability to attract and retain
businesses, which further reduces General Fund revenue. Business and economic development
activities provide local jobs, generating income to be spent locally, creating sales tax revenue for the
City. These activities also enhance property values increasing available property tax revenue to the
City. With the loss of redevelopment funds, any future business and economic development
activities must be paid by the General Fund.

4.	Increased Crime Rate and Decreased Police Staffing are Undermining Public Health. Safety
and Welfare of the Antioch Community. Violent crime in Antioch increased 30.6 % compared to
2011 and property crime saw a 22.8% increase in that time. The City’s overall Part 1 crime (i.e.
serious felonies) saw a 24.2% increase in 2012. There have been 6 homicides to date compared to 10
in all of 2012. The average response time to Priority 1 calls increased by more than 2 minutes from
2011 (from 8:57 minutes to 11:04 minutes). The City last had as few as 89 sworn Police Officers in
1995 when the City population was 74,925 instead of the current103,833; and when calls for service
numbered 47,677 far less than the recent number of annual calls for service of 81,572. The City
Council views the protection of the public health as an urgent priority. Several funding sources for
the Police Department are expiring and there is no other replacement funding source to address
increasing crime rates. Police staffing must be increased. In addition, staffing levels must be
increased to investigate serious crimes such as homicides and the increasingly sophisticated gangs
and drug traffickers.

Realignment under Assembly Bill 109 places additional, non-anticipated strain on the City’s
public safety services. Now, those most recently convicted of a non-violent, non-serious, and non-sex
related crimes (as defined) are jailed locally rather than sent to prison, regardless of prior convictions
or risk of re-offending. AB 109 also transfers the housing responsibility for parole and Post Release
Community Supervision revocations to local jails. Many of these reoffend when they get out of jail.
Finally, AB 109 allows for the early discharge of parolees. All this adds up to overcrowding at the
jail, early release of many offenders, no supervision by parole or in most cases probation, and an
increase in crime that puts additional strain on police resources. There is no state money for local
police agencies to compensate for this added work load. All the new State funds are devoted to the
County Jail, Probation, District Attorney’s Office and Health Services. A California Department of

Page 5 of 10

Corrections 2010 study revealed that California’s recidivism rate is 67.5%, and the San Francisco
area recidivism rate is among the highest in the state at 78.3%.

Realignment under AB 109 started October 1, 2011. Since then, 175 criminals have been
•released to Antioch, with East Contra Costa County having the highest percentage (42%) of the Post
Release Community Supervision (PRCS) population in the County and Antioch having the highest
number in East County. According to the County Probation Department, there are 34 outstanding
warrants for the PRCS population in East County with Antioch having 47% of them. This does not
take into account the crimes that suspects subject to realignment under AB 109 may have committed
which law enforcement has not yet identified and the cost to investigate those crimes. This is very
early in the realignment process so that number may increase dramatically and the City expects it to
greatly affect Antioch’s Police resources.

5.	Lack of Code Enforcement Services is Undermining Public Health, Safety and Welfare in the
Antioch Community. The City virtually eliminated the 11 -member Code Enforcement Division due
to the fiscal crisis and now receives an average of 25 calls per week for Code Enforcement services
that cannot be timely returned.

6.	Lack of Street Repairs and Maintenance is Undermining Public Health, Safety and Welfare in
the Antioch Community. A 2011 Pavement Management Program Budget Options Report
(Pavement Management Update) indicated that the City’s approximately 670 miles of streets has a
backlog of needed street rehabilitation and maintenance costing $52 million. The Streets Division
of the Public Works Department has been reduced from 19 to 10 workers, resulting in more deferred
maintenance, slower response to citizen requests for service, and elimination of some programs.
Spending less today on maintenance means more money will be needed for street and infrastructure
repairs and replacements later.

7.	Drastic Reduction in All City Services is Undermining the Public Health. Safety and Welfare
of the Antioch Community. Other City services have been reduced too. All Recreation activities,
including senior and youth services, require a subsidy from the City’s general fund to cover costs.
Funding for Recreation services has decreased by approximately $674,000 since fiscal year 2008
requiring cuts to important programs to the most needy in the community. Without an immediate
revenue increase, these programs face further reductions or elimination. Further reductions could
mean that seniors, many of whom rely on the Senior Center for daily meals and social interaction,
would be increasingly isolated and undernourished. Further reduction of youth recreation programs
may lead to more truancy and crime. According to the local public school district, truancy has
averaged at approximately 40% over the last several years. Delayed building inspections and
reduced programs to encourage due to the lack of staffing also impair the City’s ability to ensure
public safety.

8.	Significant Challenges Face the Antioch Community and the Needs are Immediate. The
housing market collapse and national economic recession caused median housing prices in Antioch
to fall by 36% to 68% between 2006 and 2010, with over 500 Antioch homeowners receiving notices
of default each month for several years. Although there has been some decline in unemployment
rates from the peak of 12.6% in 2010, per the California Employment Development Department, the

Page 6 of 10

unemployment rate was still over 10% in 2012. The high school drop-out rates for the public school
system were 6.9% in 2008-09,16.7% in 2009-10 and 17.3% in 2010-11. ABAG (Association of Bay
Area Governments) Projections 2009 indicated that the number of persons per household was higher
in Antioch than the rest of Contra Costa County due to a larger percentage of households with
children, which can strain the public school district and City recreational programs.

The City of Antioch needs every tool at its disposal, as soon as possible, to successfully fund
its general municipal services, including but not limited to public safety and crime prevention, code
enforcement and the elimination of blight, repair of streets and all other public infrastructure, job
creation, youth and senior services, efforts to increase home ownership and retail opportunities.
Accordingly, the City Council finds and declares that, because of the severe fiscal challenges facing
the City of Antioch combined with the serious needs such as public safety, code enforcement and
street maintenance, an emergency exists mandating a prompt election to consider adopting a
temporary one-half cent sales tax to help the City serve its citizens. Even a delay of twelve months
means hundreds of thousands of dollars that will not be available to meet these immediate needs of
the Antioch community. Any delay means that the Police Department may not be able to prevent or
investigate serious crimes; that blight may go unabated; that timely maintenance and construction of
streets and public infrastructure may not occur; that seniors may not have a place to meet for meals
and companionship; that the youth services program will be unable to assist school-age residents of
Antioch on their way to a good life; and that all other ordinary and usual purposes of city government
will be adversely affected.

9.	Antioch Cannot Delay the Sales Tax Measure and the City Council declares an Emergency.
The next regularly scheduled election for members of the City Council will not occur until
November 2014. Based on the foregoing findings, the City will face continued financial difficulties
before November 2014. Delaying this tax measure until the November 2014 ballot would mean that
the City would not begin to see any financial returns from any adopted increase until the spring of
2015. The City’s budget projections for fiscal year 2014-2015 already show the budget shortfall
increasing from $3.6 to $4.7 million. Accordingly, the City Council finds and declares that because
of the severe fiscal challenges facing the City of Antioch, combined with the serious needs
particularly in the area of public safety, code enforcement and street maintenance; an emergency
exists mandating an immediate election to consider a temporary one-half cent sales tax to enable the
City to serve its citizens. The City Council determines that because of the great need in Antioch, any
delay is unacceptable; and that an emergency exists to impose the taxes set forth in this ordinance
prior to November 2014 if the City is to meet its expenses necessary to provide the services not only
required by law but necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety of
the City.

Section 4. Proposed Ordinance

The Ordinance authorizing the general tax to be approved by the voters is as set forth in Exhibit 1.
The City Council hereby approves the ordinance, the form thereof, and its submission to the voters of
the City at the November 5, 2013 election, as required by Revenue and Taxation Code section
7285.9. The Ordinance specifies that the rate of the transactions tax shall be one-half of one percent
(0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail

Page 7 of 10

in the City. It specifies that the rate of the use tax shall be one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales
price of tangible personal property stored, used or otherwise consumed in the City, and that the tax
shall be in effect for seven years. The State Board of Equalization shall collect the tax from retailers
subject to the tax and remit the funds to the City.

The full text of the “Ordinance of the City of Antioch Imposing a Transactions and Use Tax to be
Administered by the State Board of Equalization,” which adds Article 4 to Chapter 5 of Title 3 of the
Antioch Municipal Code enacting a one-half cent Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax for seven years
to fund Antioch city services, is available at no cost from the City Clerk’s Office at 925-779-7009 or
on the City’s website: www.ci.antioch.ca.us. A statement about how to obtain the full text of the
Ordinance will be included in the Voter Information Pamphlet below the Impartial Analysis. Only
the ballot question. Impartial Analysis and Arguments are to be printed in the Voter Information
Pamphlet.

Section 5. Request to Consolidate, Conduct Election and Canvass Returns

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Contra Costa is hereby requested to authorize the County
Clerk/Recorder/Registrar of Voters to render all services necessary and proper for the conduct of the
special municipal election called by this Resolution. Pursuant to California Elections Code section
10403, the City Council hereby requests that the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors
consolidate that election with the election to be conducted on November 5, 2013 and order the
special municipal election to be conducted by the Registrar of Voters. The Contra Costa County
Elections department is authorized to canvass the returns of the special election, and the election
shall be held in all respects as only one election.

The City Clerk’s Office is authorized, instructed and directed to work with the County Elections
Division as needed to properly and lawfully conduct the election. The ballots to be used in the
election shall be in form and content as required by law. In all particulars not recited in this
Resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal
elections.

Section 6. Time and Place of Election

The polls for the election shall be open at 7:00 a.m. on the day of the election and shall remain open
continuously from that time until 8:00 p.m. that same day, when the polls shall be closed, except as
provided in Section 14401 of the Elections Code of the State of California. The notice of the time
and place of holding the election is hereby given, and the City Clerk is authorized to give further
notice of the election, as required by law.

Section 7.	Publication of Measure

The City Clerk’s Office is hereby directed to cause notice of the measure to be published once in
accordance with Section 12111 of the Elections Code.

Section 8.	Submission of Ballot Arguments

The City Clerk’s Office, with the concurrence of the County Elections Official, has fixed 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, July 9, 2013 as the deadline for submittal of arguments for or against the measure.

Page 8 of 10

The direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred (300) words, and shall not be signed by more
than five (5) persons. The City Council does not adopt the provisions of Elections Code Section
9285(a); there shall be no rebuttal arguments.

Section 9. Council Preparation of Argument In Support of Measure

The City Council hereby authorizes the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tern to prepare and file the written
primary argument in support of the ballot measure described above, pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter
3 of Division 9 of the California Elections Code. At the discretion of the Mayor and Mayor Pro
Tern, the argument may also be signed by other members of the City Council, bona fide associations
of citizens, or by individual voters who are eligible to vote.

Section 10. Impartial Analysis

Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9280, the City Council hereby directs the City Clerk’s
Office to transmit a certified copy of the measure to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall
prepare an impartial analysis of the measure, not to exceed 500 words in length, showing the effect
of the measure on the existing law and the operation of the measure, and transmit the impartial
analysis tothe.Elections.Division by no later than 5:00 p.m. on 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, July 9, 2013.

Section 11. Implementation.;

The City Clerk’s Office is directed to file with the Board of Supervisors and the Registrar of Voters
certified copies of thi$ resolution.

The City will reimburse the County for the actual cost incurred in conducting the election upon
receipt of a bill stating the amount due as determined by the Election Official.

Section 12. Jurisdictional Boundaries

The jurisdictional boundaries of the City of Antioch have not changed since the last general
municipal election.

Section 13. CEQA

The approval of this Resolution is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Public
Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA
Guidelines”). The transactions and use tax to be submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be
used for any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular action or
actions. As such, under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the
meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not involve any
commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that would have either such effect, the
City would undertake the required CEQA review for that particular project. Therefore, under CEQA
Guidelines section 15060 review under CEQA is not required.

Section 14. Passage of this Resolution.

This tax is a general tax requiring the approval of a majority of qualified electors casting votes.
While the measure lists several of the various municipal purposes to be funded, the list is illustrative
only and the Council retains complete discretion to expend the tax proceeds for any lawful purpose

Page 9 of 10

I

of the City of Antioch. Accordingly, this Resolution, including the submission of the proposed
Ordinance (attached as Exhibit 1) must be approved by a unanimous vote of the City Council.

This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage and adoption.

* * * *

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was passed and adopted by the City
Council of the City of Antioch at a regular meeting thereof, held on the 25th day of June, 2013, by
the following vote:

AYES:	Council	Members	Wilson,	Rocha,	Tiscareno,	Agopian	and	Mayor	Harper

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

%	V-4, ARNE/SIMONSEN

CITY CLERK OF Tffi CITY OF ANTIOCH

Page 10 of 10

Exhibit 1

ORDINANCE NO. 2068-C-S

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ANTIOCH
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The City Council of the City of Antioch does ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. ADDITION TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE. Article 4 is added to Chapter 5
of Title 3 of the Antioch Municipal Code to read as follows:

ARTICLE 4: TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Section 3-5.401. TITLE. This article shall be known as the “Antioch Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance.” The city of Antioch hereinafter shall be called ''City." This
article shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3-5.402. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this
ordinance.

Section 3-5.403. PURPOSE. This article is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285,9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by
the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost
of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this article.

Page 1 of7

Section 3-5.404. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the Operative Date, the City
shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax article; provided, that if the
City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the Operative Date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 3-5.405. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (.50%) of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this article.

Section 3-5.406. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this article, all retail sales
are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place
or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3-5.407. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the Operative Date of this article for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (.50%) of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 3-5.408. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this article and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set forth
herein.

Section 3-5.409. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

Page 2 of 7

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3-5.410. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this article.

Section 3-5.411. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax

the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee

Page 3 of 7

at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall
be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this article.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this article.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this article, the storage, use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this article.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this article.

Page 4 of 7

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business
in the City shall not be requited to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting
or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this article may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3-5.412. AMENDMENTS.

A.	All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this article, provided however, that
no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this article.

B.	Pursuant to California Elections Code section 9217 or any successor statute,
the City Council of the City of Antioch may amend or repeal this article, but not increase
or extend the rate of tax imposed by the article, without the approval of the voters of the
City of Antioch voting on such question.

Section 3-5.413. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this article, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Page 5 of7

Section 3-5.414. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS. All proceeds of the tax levied and
imposed under this article shall be paid into the General Fund for use by the City of
Antioch.

Section 3-5.415. ANNUAL AUDIT. By no later than December 31st of each year, the
City’s independent auditors shall complete a financial audit report to include the revenue
raised and expended by this tax to be reflected in the City’s budget.

Section 3-5.416. CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. A Citizens’ Oversight
Committee shall be established to review the receipt and expenditure of the revenue from
this transactions and use tax, including the annual auditor’s report. The Committee’s
review shall be completed in conjunction with the City’s budget process. The
Committee’s report on its review, whether oral or written, shall be considered by the City
Council at a public meeting. Any written report shall be a matter of public record. The
Committee shall consist of seven members who shall be Antioch residents. The terms of
the Committee members may be staggered but no term shall be less than two years. The
City Council may adopt a resolution regarding the appointment of the Committee
members and more specific duties of the Committee.

Section 3-5.417. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
article shall expire seven (7) years from the Operative Date.

SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 3. CEOA. This transactions and use tax to be submitted to the voters is a general
tax that can be used for any legitimate governmental purpose. As such, under CEQA Guidelines
section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA because it creates a
government funding mechanism that does not involve any commitment to any specific project
that may result in a potentially significant impact on the environment: Therefore, under CEQA
Guidelines section 15060, review under CEQA is not required.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE PATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City’s transactions and use taxes and shall not take effect until approved by the majority of
the voters voting at the general municipal election to be held on November 5, 2013.

SECTION 5. CERTIFICATION: PUBLICATION Upon approval by the voters, the
City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance and shall cause it to be
published according to law and transmitted to the Board of Equalization.

Page 6 of 7

INTRODUCED by the City Council of the City of Antioch on May 28, 2013 and PASSED AND
ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Antioch on June 25, 2013, by the following vote:

AYES:	Council Members Wilson, Rocha, Tiscareno, Agopian and Mayor Harper

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

/s/ Wade Harper___________

Wade Harper, Mayor

Attest:	/s/	Arne Simonsen______

Arne Simonsen, City Clerk

Ordinance No. 2068-C-S was submitted to the People of the City of Antioch at the November 5,
2013 special municipal election. It is hereby certified that this Ordinance was APPROVED by
the following vote of the People of Antioch:

YES:

NO:

This Ordinance was thereby adopted by the voters at the November 5, 2013 election and took
effect upon adoption of a resolution declaring the results of the election at a regular meeting of
the City Council held on_________________by	the	following	vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

I	hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of an ordinance duly and regularly
adopted by the People of the City of Antioch, California.

Arne Simonsen, City Clerk

Page 7 of7