TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO MEASURE D		
1  \  I  f  J  f  t  c	MEASURE D: To repair potholes, 1 repave roads, reduce traffic con- kv gestion, maintain and improve side- valks/drainage/street medians, preserve )ublic safety, and improve other general Tc utilities, and infrastructure, shall the T \nselmo establish a one-half percent (.51 or ten years, with annual independent au ory public expenditure reports, and an citizens’ oversight committee with all fun< San Anselmo under local control?	YES  NO  >wn services, own of San %) sales tax dits, manda- independent is staying in

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE D

SAN ANSELMO TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX MEASURE

If approved by a majority of the voters, this measure
would adopt a new Town of San Anselmo ordinance
imposing a one half of one percent (.5%) tax on sales to be
levied within the Town of San Anselmo. The proposed
“transactions and use tax” would be imposed on tangible
personal property sold at retail in the Town or purchased
outside the Town for use in the Town. This measure would
authorize the Town, as required by law, to contract with
the State Board of Equalization to administer and collect
the tax.

This .5% transactions and use tax would be a “general tax,”
meaning that the revenue raised from the tax would go into
the Town’s general fund and could be used for any munic-
ipal governmental purpose. Municipal governmental pur-
poses may include street maintenance and repair, drainage
improvements, parks and recreation services, public build-
ing and infrastructure repair, and other governmental func-
tions and services. This measure does not bind the Town to
use the proceeds of the tax for any particular services, facil-
ities, or programs.

The .5% transactions and use tax would be levied in addi-
tion to the currently applicable state and local sales taxes
and would be collected at the same time and in the same
manner as the existing sales tax. Currently, the sales taxes
in San Anselmo (including state and local taxes) are a total
of eight and one half percent (8.5%) of the purchase
amount. If this measure is approved, the total tax on sales
in San Anselmo will be nine percent (9%) of the purchase
amount.

The measure requires that the Town include - in its annual
audit of the Town’s financial operations by an independent
certified public accountant - an accounting of the revenue
generated by the tax and how the revenue was used. Ad-
ditionally, the measure requires that the Town Council estab-
lish an Oversight Committee to review and report on the
use of the general purpose revenues generated by the tax.
The authorization to collect the proposed tax would expire
in ten years. After that time, the tax authorized by this
measure would no longer be imposed.

State law authorizes the Town of San Anselmo to levy the
proposed one half percent transactions and use tax if two-

thirds (2/3) of the Town Council approves the ordinance
proposing the tax and a majority of the voters voting in an
election approve the ordinance. At its meeting on August
5, 2013, the San Anselmo Town Council approved the
ordinance for placement on the ballot by a vote of four of
its members.

If approved by a majority of the voters at the November 5,
2013 election, the one half percent tax on sales would
become operative on April 1,2014.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

s/ROBERT F. EPSTEIN
Town Attorney of San Anselmo

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Measure D would provide a much needed funding boost to
repair the Town’s aging streets and facilities. The measure
would add 1/2 percent to taxable sales transactions in the
Town over ten years. It would allow the Town to increase
funding by at least $500,000 annually to fix roads and
other infrastructure. Fairfax, San Rafael and Novato al-
ready have separate local sales taxes, and Larkspur and
Corte Madera have a local sales tax on their ballot. By
passing Measure D, we can keep this local revenue en-
tirely within our Town.

Recently, a Financial Advisory Committee of independent
residents closely examined San Anselmo’s budget. It con-
cluded that the Town has done a good job managing ex-
penses, reducing expenditures over the last several years,
and reducing staff by nearly 15% over the past decade.
The Town has also further reduced employee costs by
implementing a two-tier pension system, saving $1 mil-
lion over the last five years, and by consolidating our
police and fire services, saving even more. In short, the
Committee concluded that the Town budget can’t be cut
further.

The Committee also concluded that the Town has signifi-
cant unmet needs, particularly road maintenance. A recent
report concluded that our roads are among the worst in the
Bay Area. Although the Town spends nearly $1 million
annually on road maintenance, this is not enough to keep
up with deteriorating conditions. Drainage on many roads
is inadequate, and Town buildings (such as Isabel Cook)
have long-deferred maintenance needs. Continuing to put
off the repair of potholes and cracked surfaces in roads
will only make this work more expensive later.

Measure D includes requirements for an annual indepen-
dent audit, public expenditure reports and an independent
oversight committee to ensure that the sales tax revenues
are spent responsibly.

Please join us in supporting Measure D to Renew San
Anselmo.

s/KAY COLEMAN
Mayor of San Anselmo
s/ANNELISE BAUER
President, Ross Valley School District Board of
Trustees
s/JUDY COY
Chair, San Anselmo Historical Commission and
2013 San Anselmo Volunteer of the Year
s/GAGE HOUSER
Chair, Renew San Anselmo Committee

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR
OF MEASURE D

A regressive tax is a local sales tax, currently in San
Rafael, Novato, Fairfax, and proposed in Corte Madera,
Larkspur, and San Anselmo. Sales taxes financially hit res-
idents on modest income, seniors, young families, and
smaller retail stores the hardest.

General Sales Taxes become harmful because Council can
spend tax revenue on:

•	Employee Pension

•	Employee Medical

•	Employee Salary

•	Neighborhood Development Projects

Yes, 10-year San Anselmo Measure D sales tax pro-
ceeds “will remain entirely within our Town.” Council
made a second promise: Nothing herein shall bind
the Town to use the (sales tax revenue) proceeds for
anv specific purpose or function.

San Anselmo could spend Measure D tax to maintain
union agreements and pet projects like Memorial Park
constructed into a flood control project, a roadway trolley,
or enhance Town owned property.

Measure D is a General Sales Tax
Special Sales Taxes target street, drainage, and infrastruc-
ture funding critical to the Town, but Council chose an
alternative, a General Tax that allows limitless spending
choices.

When Council receives unrestricted General Tax revenue,
taxpayers have no spending control of financial decisions
and no Oversight Committee can prevent irresponsible
actions.

Although fiscal accountability provision establishes “Over-
sight Committee to review and report on the use of the
general purpose” of Measure D, Council gave no author-
ity to the Oversight Committee to ensure that sales tax
revenue spending is responsible.

Measure D is a General Sales Tax that gives
Council privilege to spend.

VOTERS MUST REJECT GENERAL SALES TAXES
Vote NO on Measure D

s/DALE ELLIS
s/SUSAN S GARNETT
s/LOUISE L MATHEWS
s/NANCY OKADA

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

After decades of belt tightening to balance personal and
family budgets, taking second or third jobs and, conse-
quently, reduce care and attention we are able to provide
to friends and family, and as we struggle to this day;

•	Voters demand Town of San Anselmo Council be
prudent and reduce its spending.

Some voters may know General Tax ballots give Council
full discretion over use of general tax revenue.

Measure D gives Council authority to decide spending and
no Oversight Committee will ever interfere.

Council has made it clear that the primary duty of an Over-
sight Committee is to review audits of the sales tax revenue
received by State Board of Equalization and expenditures
made, but not advise and not control where tax revenue is
spent.

This is the failure of Measure D; it compounds taxpayer
distress.

•	Measure D is a General Tax and will be spent as
Town Council demands.

Residents and consumers have limited spending dollars
but Town of San Anselmo officials seem relentless to
extract to that dollar limit, and beyond.

Police consolidation completed this year between San
Anselmo, Corte Madera, and Larkspur is expected to gen-
erate savings to San Anselmo. If roads, landscaping medi-
ans, and town hall facilities need revenue, then a Special
Tax that allows tax revenue spent for those specific uses
should be on this ballot.

Whenever a General Sales Tax ballot appears, know this:
Your sales tax dollar can be spent by Town Council on
what politicians’ value:

•	Payroll, benefits, retirement, and undertaking neigh-
borhood developments

A regressive tax takes more from shoppers who have less
income to spend.

Measure D is a 10-year regressive tax that will take even
more advantage of our community seniors, students, and
workers.

VOTERS CAN’T WAIT ANY LONGER
TO TAKE CONTROL OF TAXES.

Vote NO on D

s/SUSAN S. GARNETT
s/LOUISE L. MATHEWS
s/NANCY OKADA

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE D

The opposition relies on scare tactics, not facts.

Contrary to the opposition, the Town’s independent Finan-
cial Advisory Committee concluded the Town has done a
good job managing its expenses, made significant accom-
plishments in reducing expenses as a result of police con-
solidation and our two-tier pension system, and there were
no “further significant savings to be found in the Town bud-
get.” It recommended the Town offer a half-cent general
sales tax measure to provide increased funding for our high-
est priorities, including roads and infrastructure projects.
To ensure the funds go to our highest priorities, the Town
Council recently adopted a statement of intent committing
to spend the sales tax revenue on roads, street drainage,
and other critical infrastructure projects. False claims
about pensions and employee benefits are red herrings.
While attempting to scare seniors and others, the opposi-
tion fails to note that a significant portion of our sales taxes
are paid by nonresidents. If this measure passes, San
Anselmo’s sales tax rate would still be at or below the rates
charged in neighboring cities, including Fairfax and San
Rafael. It would add just 50 cents to a purchase of $100,
exempting essential purchases like food and medicine.

The opposition incorrectly claims the oversight committee
will have a narrow role of reviewing limited documenta-
tion. In fact, it is not limited in the information it may
review and is required to report to you, the residents, how
the revenue is spent. As a result, you will control how this
revenue is spent.
s/JOHN D. WRIGHT
President, Tamalpais Union High School
District Board of Trustees
s/JON ELAM
Resident
s/CHRIS LIVERMORE
Member San Anselmo Financial Advisory Committee
s/LORI LOPIN
Former RVSD School Trustee &

San Anselmo Councilmember
s/BARBARA THORNTON
Former Mayor, San Anselmo

AND-3

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE D

RESOLUTION NO. 4044
A RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF
THE TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO CALLING AND
GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF AN
ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 5,2013
AND REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPER-
VISORS OF THE COUNTY OF MARIN CONSOLI-
DATE SAID ELECTION; AND AUTHORIZE THE
TOWN CLERK OR HER DULY AUTHORIZED
OFFICERS AND AGENCY TO CARRY OUT ALL
THE NECESSARY PROCEDURES FOR SAID
ELECTION SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS
A ONE HALF PERCENT (5%) TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX MEASURE FOR GENERAL
PURPOSES TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF
THE TOWN AND SETTING THE BALLOT
LANGUAGE.

Whereas, the Town Council is committed to protecting
the small town ambience, access to parks and open space,
historic downtown and the great overall quality of life in
San Anselmo; and

Whereas, many of San Anselmo’s local streets and roads
are in need of repaving and pothole repair, current street
drainage on many roads is inadequate, in disrepair or col-
lapsed, and some streets are also in need of medians or
median improvements, and these issues contribute to traf-
fic and congestion that affects all residents; and
Whereas, several public facilities have long-deferred
maintenance needs that must be addressed before they
become more expensive; and

Whereas, the Town of San Anselmo has effectively man-
aged its expenses while protecting vital Town services,
reduced expenses by consolidating police and fire services
with nearby communities and by implementing pension
reform, and the Town’s independent Financial Advisory
Committee has concluded that there are not further sig-
nificant savings to be found in the Town budget; and
Whereas, all funds from a locally approved tax cannot be
taken by the State and must stay in San Anselmo under
local control to benefit local residents.

Whereas, Article XIIIC, Section 2 of the California Con-
stitution authorizes cities, by a majority vote of the quali-
fied electors, to impose a general tax; and
Whereas, Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code
and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 authorize a
city to adopt a transactions and use tax ordinance, which
shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose; and
Whereas, the Town Council desires to submit the ordi-
nance attached hereto as Exhibit A containing a ballot
measure to adopt a one-half of one percent (.5%) sales tax
measure (transactions and use tax) to be used exclusively
for general purposes to the qualified voters of the Town of
San Anselmo at the Uniform District Election to be held in
the Town on November 5,2013; and

Whereas, it is desirable that the election be consolidated
with the statewide election to be held on the same date and
that within the Town, the precincts, polling places, and
election officers of the two elections to be the same; and
Whereas, it is desirable that the County Election Depart-
ment of County of Marin canvass the returns of the Uni-
form District Election and that the election be handled in
all respects as if there were only one election.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE TOWN COUNCIL OF
THE TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO, CALIFORNIA,
DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE, AND
ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the
laws of the State of California relating to General Law
Cities, there is called and ordered an election to be held in
the Town of San Anselmo, California, on Tuesday, No-
vember 5,2013.

Section 2. That pursuant to the requirements of Sec-
tion 10403 of the California Elections Code, the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Marin is hereby requested to
consent and agree to the consolidation of said election.

Section 3. That the Town Council, pursuant to its
rights and authority, does order submitted to the voters at
the election the following question:

To repair potholes, repave roads, reduce ygs

traffic congestion, maintain and improve _____________

sidewalks/drainage/street medians, pre-

serve public safety, and improve other________________

general Town services, facilities, and infrastructure,
shall the Town of San Anselmo establish a one-half per-
cent (.5%) sales tax for ten years, with annual indepen-
dent audits, mandatory public expenditure reports, and
an independent citizens’ oversight committee with all
funds staying in San Anselmo under local control?

Section 4. The text of the proposed ordinance to be
submitted to the voters is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

Section 5. Pursuant to California Elections Code Sec-
tion 9280, the Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the
measure to the Town Attorney who shall prepare an im-
partial analysis of the measure in accordance with said
Section 9280.

Section 6. Arguments for and against said measure
may be filed in accordance with applicable provisions of
the law. Pursuant to Section 9285 of the California Elec-
tions Code, (the provisions of which are hereby adopted),
when the Town Clerk has selected the arguments for and
against the measure which will be printed and distributed
to the voters, the Clerk shall send copies of the argument
in favor of the measure to the authors of the argument
against, and copies of the argument against to the authors
of the argument in favor. The rebuttal arguments shall be
filed with the Town Clerk not more than 10 days after the
final date for filing direct arguments. Rebuttal arguments
shall be printed in the same manner as the direct argu-
ments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow
the direct argument which it seeks to rebut. The text of the
measure shall be printed on the ballot in the voter infor-
mation portion of the sample ballot.

Section 7. That the County Election Department is
authorized to canvass the returns of said election. The
election shall be held in all respects as if there were only
one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

Section 8. That the Board of Supervisors is request-
ed to issue instructions to the County Election Department
to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the
consolidated election.

Section 9. That the Town Clerk shall certify to the
passage and adoption of this Resolution and enter it into
the book of original resolutions.

Section 10. That the polls for the election shall be
open at 7:00 a.m. of the election and shall remain open
continuously from that time until 8:00 p.m. of the same
day, when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in
Section 14401 of the California Elections Code.

Section 11. That in all particulars not recited in this
resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as pro-
vided by law for holding municipal elections.

Section 12. That notice of the time and place of hold-
ing the election is given and Town Clerk is authorized,
instructed, and directed to give further or additional notice
of the election, in time, form, and manner as required by
law.

Section 13. That the Town Clerk is hereby directed to
file a certified copy of this resolution with the Board of
Supervisors and the Election Department of the County of
Marin.

Section 14. This resolution shall take effect immedi-
ately.

I,	the undersigned hereby certify that the foregoing is a
full, true, and complete copy of a resolution duly passed
and adopted by the Council of the Town of San Anselmo
at a special meeting thereof held on the 5th day of August,
2013 by the following vote:

AYES:	Coleman, Dahlgren, Kroot, Mclnemey

NOES:	None

ABSENT: Greene
ABSTAIN: None

s/KAY COLEMAN
Mayor

ATTEST:

s/JOANNE KESSEL
For Barbara Chambers, Town Clerk

EXHIBIT A

TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO
ORDINANCE NO.______________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN
OF SAN ANSELMO ADDING CHAPTER 8-8 TO THE
SAN ANSELMO MUNICIPAL CODE IMPOSING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINIS-
TERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
(November 5,2013 Ballot Measure)

Section 1. The People of the Town of San Anselmo
ordain as follows: that a new Chapter 8 shall be added to
Title 8, Finance, Revenue, and Taxation, subject to voter
approval as set forth herein, as follows:

Chapter 8-8 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Sections:

8-8.01. Title.

8-8.02. Operative Date.

8-8.03. Purpose.

8-8.04. Contract with State.

8-8.05. Transactions Tax Rate.

8-8.06. Place of Sale.

8-8.07. Use Tax Rate.

8-8.08. Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

8-8.09. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes.

8-8.10. Permit Not Required.

8-8.11. Exemptions and Exclusions.

8-8.12. Amendments.

8-8.13. Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

8-8.14. Severability.

8-8.15. Effective Date.

8-8.16. Use of Proceeds.

8-8.17. Fiscal Accountability Provisions.

8-8.01 TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the
Town of San Anselmo Transactions and Use Tax. The
Town of San Anselmo hereinafter shall be referred to as
“the Town.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the Town.

8-8.02. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means
the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date
of such adoption being as set forth below.

8-8.03. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and the pro-
visions hereof should be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing
with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division
2 which authorizes the Town to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if a majority of the electors vot-
ing on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the
tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordi-
nance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the

AND-5

Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar
as those provisions are not inconsistent with the require-
ments and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordi-
nance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore
that can be administered and collected by the State Board
of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administer-
ing and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordi-
nance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to
the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

8-8.04. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the oper-
ative date, the Town shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the admin-
istration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordi-
nance; provided, that if the Town shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

8-8.05. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privi-
lege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax
hereby is imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the Town at the rate of .50% (one half of one
percent) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said terri-
tory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.
8-8.06. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this
ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal prop-
erty sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-
of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has more
than one place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the
State Board of Equalization.

8-8.07. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby im-
posed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
Town of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for
storage, use, or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of .50% (one half of one percent) of the sales price of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

8-8.08. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE
LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code (“Transactions and Use Taxes”), all of the provisions
of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code (“Sales and Use
Taxes”) are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordi-
nance as though fully set forth herein.

8-8.09. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE
LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopt-
ing the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the Town
shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made under the following circumstances:

1.	When the word “State” is used as a part of the
title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	When the result of that substitution would
require action to be taken by or against this Town or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of
this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including but not necessari-
ly limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries
of the State of California, where the result of the substitu-
tion would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax
with respect to certain sales, storage, use, or other con-
sumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, stor-
age, use, or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use, or other consumption of tangible per-
sonal property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sen-
tence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “Town” shall be substituted for the
word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in
this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

8-8.10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller s per
mit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation code, an additional transactor’s per-
mit shall not be required by this ordinance.

8-8.11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax
or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-

Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made, and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the Town
which is shipped to a point outside the Town, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retail-
er or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the Town shall
be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than com-
mercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chap-
ter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-Town address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is,
in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-Town and decla-
ration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is
a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time
for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

5.	For the purpose of subparagraphs (3) and (4)
of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal prop-
erty shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a con-
tract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to termi-
nate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by
this ordinance, the storage, use, or other consumption in
this Town of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-adminis-
tered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such opera-
tors directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or com-

pensation under a certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any
right or power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease that is a continuing purchase of such proper-
ty for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior
to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4)
of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or pos-
session of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pur-
suant to a contract or lease for any period of time during
which any party to the contract or lease has the uncondi-
tional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a
retailer engaged in business in the Town shall not be
required to collect the use tax from the purchaser of tangi-
ble personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers
the property into the Town or participates within the Town
in making the sale of the property, including, but not lim-
ited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the Town
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the Town under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the Town”
shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented ves-
sels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Sec-
tion 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect the use tax from any purchaser who
registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the Town.

D.	Any person subject to the use tax under this ordi-
nance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district impos-
ing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage,
use, or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.
8-8.12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent
to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and
use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically

become a part of this ordinance, provided, however, that
no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of
tax imposed by this ordinance.

8-8.13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equi-
table process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding
in any court against the State or the Town, or against any
officer of the State or the Town, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

8-8.14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordi-
nance or the application thereof to any person or circum-
stance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and
the application of such provision to other persons or cir-
cumstances shall not be affected thereby.

8-8.15. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to
the levying and collecting of the Town transactions and
use tax and shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days
after the certification by the Town Council of the election
returns indicating passage of the Ordinance by a majority
of the voters casting votes in the Uniform District Election
of November 5,2013. The San Anselmo Transactions and
Use Tax will be assessed beginning April 1, 2014. The
authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall
expire ten years after the Effective Date.

8-8.16. USE OF PROCEEDS. The proceeds from the
transactions and use tax imposed by this ordinance shall
be for general governmental purposes of the Town and
shall be received into the general fund of the Town.
Nothing herein shall bind the Town to use the proceeds for
any specific purpose or function. This ordinance raises the
Town’s appropriations limit by the amount of the tax for
the next 10 years.

8-8.17. FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS.

The Town shall include in its annual audit of the Town’s
financial operations by an independent certified public ac-
countant, an accounting of the revenue generated by the San
Anselmo Transactions and Use Tax, and how the revenue
was used. Additionally, the Town Council will establish a
Transactions and Use Tax Oversight Committee to review
and report on the use of the general purpose revenues gen-
erated by the San Anselmo Transactions and Use Tax.
Section 2. This Ordinance was approved for placement
on the November 5,2013 ballot by a two-thirds vote of all
members of the Town Council. The Ordinance was adopt-
ed by the voters of the Town of San Anselmo at the Uni-
form District Election held on the 5th day of November,
2013, by the following vote tally:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Mayor

Attest:

Title

AND-8