SONOMA

CONSOLIDATED

ELECTIONS

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2013

©©dtfo^D© Bal lot

and

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

Compiled and Distributed by Sonoma County Registrar of Voters

O

f POLLS ARE OPEN FROM 7 A.M. TO 8 P.M.	-	YOUR

POLLING PLACE MAY HAVE CHANGED. The location of your polling
place for this election is shown on the back cover.

OR VOTE BY MAIL, APPLICATION ON BACK COVER.

POLLING PLACE ACCESSIBLE?

If there is a YES to the right of the polling place location on the mailing label,
#	your polling place is accessible to the disabled. If there is a NO,

your polling place does not strictly meet the criteria for polling place accessibility;
f	however, depending on the extent of your disability, you may be able to access

I iy your polling place. If you wish to know more about the accessibility of your
polling place, please phone the Registrar of Voters Office at 565-6800.

If your polling place is not accessible to the disabled, a precinct board member shall take
a regular ballot to the disabled person at a place as near as possible to the polling place and which
is accessible to such person.

Any voter may apply for Permanent Vote by Mail status. If you have not already applied, and would
like to become a Permanent Vote by Mail voter, check the box on the application for Vote by Mail
ballot on the back cover of this booklet.

The Sonoma County Registrar of Voters Office TDD (Telecommunications Device for the Deaf) election
information and assistance number is (707) 565-6888. Audio tapes of State and Local Ballot Measures
V are available from the Registrar of Voters by telephoning (707) 565-6800 or 1-800-750-VOTE.

TO OPT OUT OF GETTING THIS SAMPLE BALLOT/

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET BY MAIL,

OR FOR ELECTION NIGHT RESULTS ON THE INTERNET:
vote.sonoma-county.org

49-FC-E177902 49-FC

49-FC Sonoma Co,

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS

IF YOU VOTE AT A POLLING PLACE: USE ONLY THE MARKING DEVICE PROVIDED. After you have completed
voting, place your ballot cards in the secrecy holder with the NUMBERED STUBS AT THE TOP and hand
them, along with the marking pen, to the precinct officer who shall in your presence remove the numbered
stubs, hand them to you, then deposit the voted ballot in the ballot box.

IF YOU VOTE BY MAIL: USE A STANDARD PENCIL; A #2 IS RECOMMENDED. After you have completed
voting, place your ballot cards in the secrecy holder and remove the NUMBERED STUBS AT THE TOR Carefully
follow the instructions on the IDENTIFICATION ENVELOPE for returning your ballot.

To vote for a candidate whose name appears on the ballot, FILL IN THE RECTANGLE in the square to the
right of the candidate’s name. Where two or more candidates for the same office are to be elected, FILL IN
THE RECTANGLE in the square to the right of the names of all the candidates for the office for whom you
desire to vote, not to exceed, however, the number of candidates to be elected.

To vote on any measure, FILL IN THE RECTANGLE in the square after the word “YES” or after the word
“NO.”

To vote for a qualified WRITE-IN candidate, write the person’s name in the blank space provided for that
purpose after the names of the other candidates for the same office and FILL IN THE RECTANGLE in the
square to the right of the name you have written in, or your vote will not be counted.

Marking the ballot outside of the designated space to vote for a candidate or measure may compromise the
secrecy of the ballot. If you wrongly mark, tear, or deface this ballot, return it to the precinct officer. If you
vote by mail, follow the instructions on the IDENTIFICATION ENVELOPE to request a replacement.

HOWTO VOTE YOUR BALLOT CARDS

-#

MAKE SURE YOU VOTE BOTH SIDES OF YOUR BALLOT
CARDS

STEP 1

Remove ballot cards from the secrecy holder.

STEP 2

Fill in the small rectangle in the square to the right of the
candidates or measures of your choice.

DO NOT FILL IN THE WHOLE SQUARE, JUST THE SMALL
RECTANGLE, OR YOUR VOTE MAY NOT BE COUNTED.
Use only the marking pen provided at the polling place.
If you vote by mail, use a standard pencil; a #2 is
recommended.

STEP 3

After you have completed voting, place your ballot cards,
with the stubs at the top, in the secrecy holder. IF YOU
VOTE AT A POLLING PLACE, hand them, along with
the marking pen, to the precinct officer. IF YOU VOTE
BY MAIL, follow the instructions on the Identification
Envelope.

49-SMV-12E-85

49SMV12E85

Sample Ballot

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN BALLOT
Sonoma County

November 5, 2013

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

CITY

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK

Yes

No

Rohnert Park Continuation of Essential City
A Services Funding Measure To preserve the
M safety and character of Rohnert Park, and
maintain/protect general City services, including
9-1-1 emergency response; fire protection; neighborhood
police patrols; gang/sex offender enforcement; disaster pre-
paredness; street paving/pothole repair; park maintenance;
and other essential services, shall the City of Rohnert Park
continue a voter-approved V2 cent sales tax, subject to annual
audits and public review, keeping money from Sacramento,
and without raising existing tax rates?

49-A003

Sample Ballot

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK
MEASURE A

Rohnert Park Continuation of Essential City Services Funding

A Measure To preserve the safety and character of Rohnert Park, and
maintain/protect general City services, including 9-1-1 emergency
response; fire protection; neighborhood police patrols; gang/sex offender
enforcement; disaster preparedness; street paving/pothole repair; park
maintenance; and other essential services, shall the City of Rohnert Park continue
a voter-approved V2 cent sales tax, subject to annual audits and public review,
keeping money from Sacramento, and without raising existing tax rates?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council of the City of
Rohnert Park to levy a General Transactions and Use Tax (i.e. sales tax) if the ordinance proposing
the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the City Council and the tax is approved by
a majority vote of the City’s voters.

The City Council has unanimously approved an ordinance amending the expiration date of an exist-
ing sales tax in Rohnert Park and has authorized Measure A to be put on the ballot for voter approval.
As proposed by Measure A, the existing half cent (0.50%) sales tax, which was approved by the
voters in 2010 and would otherwise expire in 2015, will continue to be imposed until terminated by a
unanimous vote of the City Council. The effect of Measure A is to extend the time frame in which the
existing sales tax is imposed.

Measure A is considered a general tax under state law. As a result, if adopted, the sales tax will
continue to be collected at the same time and in the same manner as other sales taxes. The reve-
nues received from the tax will continue to be placed in the City’s general fund and be used in any
manner authorized by law and as directed by the City Council. Accordingly, all monies collected
could be used by the City to pay for general City operations and programs such as police and fire
services, street maintenance, park and recreation programs, and capital improvements.

A yes vote on Measure A would continue the imposition of the half cent (0.50%) sales tax in Rohnert
Park after 2015. A no vote on Measure A would result in the expiration of the half cent (0.50%) sales
tax in Rohnert Park on September 30,2015. The measure requires a majority vote (i.e. 50 percent
plus one) to pass.

si Michelle Marchetta Kenyon, City Attorney
City of Rohnert Park

49-501

9615

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote Yes on A - Protect your city services, without raising tax rates!

Yes on A does not create a new tax. It simply continues an existing, voter-approved sales tax that the
City has relied on to maintain essential services for our community.

Rohnert Park was founded to create a safe, middle-class community with great neighborhood parks,
recreational activities, and public safety services. With the help of this voter-approved funding, the
Police/Fire Department has been able to lower crime rates to the lowest levels in the past decade!
Yes on A keeps Rohnert Park a safe place to live, work and raise a family.

Yes on A maintains 9-1-1 Emergency Response; Yes on A maintains Fire Protection Services; Yes
on A maintains Neighborhood Police Patrols; and Yes on A maintains Gang/Sex Offender
Enforcement.

All Measure A money must be spent on our local services and Sacramento can’t touch it! Yes on A
protects these essential city services by maintaining Rohnert Parks financial stability and viability!

Sacramento grabbed $1.4 million from Rohnert Park in the past year alone. Yes on A ensures a con-
tinued, reliable source of local funding that cannot be taken by the state. By law, Yes on A requires
every dime be used for our local services—not Sacramento agendas.

Yes on A includes strong fiscal accountability, with annual financial audits and public review of ex-
penditures to monitor spending—guaranteeing funds are spent responsibly and as promised.

Rohnert Park’s new leadership team has increased our financial stability, transparency and account-
ability. Yes on A keeps things on the right track by protecting our services without raising tax rates.

Join the City Council, police officers, firefighters, local business owners, and community leaders in
voting Yes on A to protect and maintain Rohnert Park’s high-quality services without raising existing
taxes. Qs? Visit www.rpcitv.org

si Pam Stafford	si	Andy	Durkee

Mayor and Business Owner	Veteran	and	30-year	resident

si Susan Adams
Mother and PTA member

si Peter Callinan
Resident since 1959

ROHNERT PARK PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS ASSOCIATION
s/ Jeff Nicks, President

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE A

49-502

9615

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

ORDINANCE NO.________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ROHNERT PARK, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING
THE ROHNERT PARK MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 3.21.150 TO CONTINUE THE
EXISTING TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX

WHEREAS, on June 25, 2013, the City Council unanimously declared a fiscal emergency under
Article XIIIC, section 2(b) of the California Constitution by adopting Resolution No. 2013-106;

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 7285.9 and 7290, the City
of Rohnert Park (“City”) has the authority to levy a Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax for general pur-
poses;

WHEREAS, in an election held in June 2010, the City Council proposed and a majority of the voters
approved an essential services temporary funding measure which imposed a one-half cent sales tax
(0.5%) on the sale or consumption of tangible personal property within the City of Rohnert Park (the
“Sales Tax”);

WHEREAS, the City’s Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance imposing the Sales Tax is found in
Chapter 3.21 of the City’s Municipal Code;

WHEREAS, Section 3.21.150 of the City’s Municipal Code sets forth a termination date of the Sales
Tax on the fifth anniversary of its adoption, which will repeal the Sales Tax on September 30,2015,
unless continued by a majority of the voters of the City;

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the continuation of the existing Sales Tax, without
raising existing tax rates, is critical to funding the City’s essential services, preserving the safety and
character of Rohnert Park, and ensuring that our City has a guaranteed source of local funding that
cannot be taken by Sacramento;

WHEREAS, the City conducted a community opinion survey which shows over two-thirds (2/3) of
respondents would support continuing the Sales Tax to maintain and protect City services;

WHEREAS, the City Council, by adopting Resolution No. 2013-114, authorized placing the matter of
continuing the Sales Tax before the voters of Rohnert Park at the November 5,2013 election; and

WHEREAS, the termination date in Section 3.21.150 of the City’s Municipal Code must be amended
to continue the Sales Tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, the People of the City of Rohnert Park do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1: AMENDMENT. Section Chapter 3.21.150 of Chapter 3.21 (Transactions and Use Tax)
of the Rohnert Park Municipal Code shall be amended to read as follows:

3.21.150 Termination Date

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall not expire, unless terminated by
a unanimous vote of the City Council.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-503

9615

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

SECTION 2: FULL FORCE AND EFFECT. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, Chapter
3.21 (Transactions and Use Tax) of the Rohnert Park Municipal Code shall remain in full force and
effect.

SECTION 3: SEVERABILITY. The City Council hereby declares that every section, paragraph,
sentence, clause, and phrase of this ordinance is severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence,
clause, or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason found to be invalid or unconstitutional, such in-
validity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of the remaining sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases.

SECTION 4: EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be submitted to the voters at an election to
be held on November 5,2013. Upon approval by a majority of the voters of the City voting on this
Ordinance, the amendment of Chapter 3.21 of the City’s Municipal Code shall take effect immedi-
ately and the Transactions and Use Tax shall be continued as provided for in this Ordinance.

SECTION 5: PUBLICATION. The City Clerk of the City of Rohnert Park is hereby directed to cause
the following summary of the ordinance to be published in a newspaper of general circulation, pub-
lished and circulated in the City of Rohnert Park:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance amends the termination date of the
existing transactions and use (sales) tax. The tax will no longer expire on the fifth anniversary.
The tax will continue until terminated by a unanimous vote of the City Council.

SECTION 6: EXECUTION. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordi-
nance by the voters of the City by signing where indicated below.

PASSED and ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Rohnert Park on this 23rd day of July,
2013, by a two-thirds vote of the Council, by the following roll call vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK

Pam Stafford, Mayor

ATTEST:

JoAnne Buergler, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Michelle Marchetta Kenyon, City Attorney

49-504

9615

Opt Out and Go Green Now!

Apply to Access
Your Sample Ballots Online

As of January 1, 2011, California voters are permitted to opt out of
receiving a Sample Ballot/Voter Information Pamphlet, notice of
polling place, and other associated information by mail.
Instead, you can access them electronically.

If you change your mind, you may opt back in to
receive your information by mail.

Your Sample Ballot/Voter Information Pamphlet will be available
to you on our website approximately 40 days before each election.

It's FREE. It's FAST. And best of all, it's GOOD FOR THE PLANET.

To opt out, go to vote.sonoma-county.org

Questions?

Visit the Registrar of Voters website (above) for information and
additional services, or call (707) 565-6800.

Sonoma County

49-F-OPT

Impartial Analysis of Measure A

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council of the City of
Rohnert Park to levy a General Transactions and Use Tax sales tax) if the ordinance
proposing the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the City Council and the tax
is approved by a majority vote of the City's voters.

The City Council has unanimously approved an ordinance amending the expiration date of an
existing sales tax in Rohnert Park and has authorized Measure A to be put on the ballot for voter
approval. As proposed by Measure A, the existing half cent (0.50%) sales tax, which was
approved by the voters in 2010 and would otherwise expire in 2015, will continue to be imposed
until terminated by a unanimous vote of the City Council. The effect of Measure A is to extend
the time frame in which the existing sales tax is imposed.

Measure A is considered a general tax under state law. As a result, if adopted, the sales tax will
continue to be collected at the same time and in the same manner as other sales taxes. The
revenues received from the tax will continue to be placed in the City's general fund and be used
in any manner authorized by law and as directed by the City Council. Accordingly, all monies
collected could be used by the City to pay for general City operations and programs such as
police and fire services, street maintenance, park and recreation programs, and capital
improvements.

A yes vote on Measure A would continue the imposition of the half cent (0.50%) sales tax in
Rohnert Park after 2015. A no vote on Measure A would result in the expiration of the half cent
(0.50%) sales tax in Rohnert Park on September 30, 2015. The measure requires a majority vote
(i.e. 50 percent plus one) to pass.

/s/ Michelle Marchetta Kenyon, City Attorney
City of Rohnert Park

OAK #4826-0369-7941 vl

COUNTY OF SONOMA
REGISTRAR OF VOTERS OFFICE

ELECTION DATE:

AUTHOR ELIGIBILITY VERIFIED BY:
JURISDICTION:__________

(FOR OFFICE USE ONLY)

CONTEST ID:.
MEASURE LETTER DESIGNATION:

STATEMENT OF ACCURACY

The undersigned author(s) of the (select one of the following)

0 ARGUMENT IN FAVOR (300 WORDS)	□ REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR (250 WORDS)

□ ARGUMENT AGAINST (300 WORDS)	□ REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST (250 WORDS)

ballot measure A at the	‘S’	^	^

(Letter)

(Name of Election)

the

- *

C~ »	^-oV\v\^rV	Pony-V^

(Jurisdiction)

hereby state that such argument is true and correct to the best of his/her/their knowledgeand

being held on M>v. 5

(Date of Election)

election for

20 /%

i..___________

Signature/Date (Principal Officer signwg'of behalf c

Signature/Date (Principal Officer sigrftfig'df behalf of an Association? □ Yes [S’No)

__________P__________________________________________________________

Print/type your name or Association’s name as it should appear on argument

___________/Afr’yor

Title toappear below name on argument (optional-limited to 4 words)

Print/type your

behalf of an Association? □ Yes □ No)

AkA\a D\jrV.<t*L

pe your name Ir Association's name as it

i it should appear on argument

re-stde-HV

Title to appear below name on argument (optional-limited to 4 words)

Signature/Date (Principal Officer signing of behalf of an Association? □ Yes ()f No)

Ac^flvwvs

Print/type your name or Association’s name as it should appear on argument

__________/AqVVmt- *v\& PTF

Title to appear below name on argument (optional-limited to 4 words)

5._________(7h.	tv_____________________

Signature/Date (Principal Officer signing of behalf of an Association? □ Yes 2B No)

__________pjS'tefr C«a 1( Mot n_____________________________

Print/type your name or Association's name as it should appear on argument
Title to appear below name on argument (optional-limited to 4 words)

Sigf^uf«i©atetPrina^l'Officer^i5TTtng of behalf of an Association?^ Yes □ No)

A/As - &>W*i<L(lT fuAic&fcr/ oPfiscfc

Print/type your name or Association’s name as it should appear on argument

^jZESi bC/vT

Title to appear below name on argument (optional-limited to 4 words)

FOR INFORMATION CONTACT:

Name:_ P(KThW JfrlTYtfrsS,________________________

Address:_ZJL5 P f r^-VVvpr yy Dr__________________

R.oWyV f^rlci CA R4 ^ £<B

Phone:	Ciol)	________________

j

Email:

di(Arr’i,A-^v\W>wsQ s\?c,<g\oWl,iAg-V

ALL ARGUMENTS/REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS SHALL BE ACCOMPANIED BY THIS FORM AND SIGNED BY THE AUTHOR(S).

OPTIONAL TITLES SHOULD NOT EXCEED FOUR (4) WORDS.

TITLES WHICH DO NOT FIT IN ALLOTTED SPACE WILL BE ABBREVIATED.

A ballot argument or rebuttal argument shall not be accepted unless accompanied by the name or names of the person(s) submitting it, or, if
submitted on behalf of an organization, the name of the organization and the name of at least one of its principal officers. No more than five
signatures shall appear with any argument submitted. Arguments may be changed or withdrawn by their proponents until and including the date
fixed by the election official for filing. There is a 10 calendar day review period prior to submitting arguments for printing.

E.C. §§9164, 9190, 9283, 9295, 9380, 9501,9600

Text of arguments/rebuttal arguments should either be typewritten (see reverse side of form) on the reverse side of this form or a typewritten or
computer generated statement may be attached to this form. Statements are electronically scanned for typesetting, therefore handwritten
arguments will not be accepted for filing.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote Yes on A - Protect your city services, without raising tax rates!

Yes on A does not create a new tax. It simply continues an existing, voter-approved sales tax that
the City has relied on to maintain essential services for our community.

Rohnert Park was founded to create a safe, middle-class community with great neighborhood
parks, recreational activities, and public safety services. With the help of this voter-approved
funding, the Police/Fire Department has been able to lower crime rates to the lowest levels in the
past decade! Yes on A keeps Rohnert Park a safe place to live, work and raise a family.

Yes on A maintains 9-1-1 Emergency Response
Yes on A maintains Fire Protection Services
Yes on A maintains Neighborhood Police Patrols
Yes on A maintains Gang/Sex Offender Enforcement

All Measure A money must be spent on our local services and Sacramento can’t touch it! Yes on A
protects these essential city services by maintaining Rohnert Park’s financial stability and viability!

Sacramento grabbed $1.4 million from Rohnert Park in the past year alone. Yes on A ensures a
continued, reliable source of local funding that cannot be taken by the state. By law, Yes on A
requires every dime be used for our local services—not Sacramento agendas.

Yes on A includes strong fiscal accountability, with annual financial audits and public review of
expenditures to monitor spending—guaranteeing funds are spent responsibly and as promised.

Rohnert Park’s new leadership team has increased our financial stability, transparency and
accountability. Yes on A keeps things on the right track by protecting our services without
raising tax rates.

Join the City Council, police officers, firefighters, local business owners, and community leaders
in voting Yes on A to protect and maintain Rohnert Park’s high-quality services without raising
existing taxes. Qs? Visit www.rpcitv.org

s/ Pam Stafford, Mayor and Business Owner
s/ Andy Durkee, Veteran and 30-year resident
s/ Susan Adams, Mother and PTA member

s/ Jeff Nicks, President, Rohnert Park Public Safety Officers Association
s/ Pete Callinan, Resident since 1959

ORDINANCE NO. 875

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ROHNERT PARK, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING THE
ROHNERT PARK MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 3.21.150 TO CONTINUE THE
EXISTING TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX

WHEREAS, on June 25, 2013, the City Council unanimously declared a fiscal emergency under
Article XIIIC, section 2(b) of the California Constitution by adopting Resolution No. 2013-106;

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 7285.9 and 7290, the
City of Rohnert Park ("City") has the authority to levy a Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax for
general purposes;

WHEREAS, in an election held in June 2010, the City Council proposed and a majority of the
voters approved an essential services temporary funding measure which imposed a one-half cent
sales tax (0.5%) on the sale or consumption of tangible personal property within the City of Rohnert
Park (the “Sales Tax”);

WHEREAS, the City's Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance imposing the Sales Tax is found in
Chapter 3.21 of the City's Municipal Code;

WHEREAS, Section 3.21.150 of the City’s Municipal Code sets forth a termination date of the
Sales Tax on the fifth anniversary of its adoption, which will repeal the Sales Tax on September 30,
2015, unless continued by a majority of the voters of the City;

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the continuation of the existing Sales Tax,
without raising existing tax rates, is critical to funding the City’s essential services, preserving the
safety and character of Rohnert Park, and ensuring that our City has a guaranteed source of local
funding that cannot be taken by Sacramento;

WHEREAS, the City conducted a community opinion survey which shows over two-thirds (2/3) of
respondents would support continuing the Sales Tax to maintain and protect City services;

WHEREAS, the City Council, by adopting Resolution No. 2013-114, authorized placing the matter
of continuing the Sales Tax before the voters of Rohnert Park at the November 5, 2013 election; and

WHEREAS, the termination date in Section 3.21.150 of the City’s Municipal Code must be
amended to continue the Sales Tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, the People of the City of Rohnert Park do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1: AMENDMENT. Section Chapter 3.21.150 of Chapter 3.21 (Transactions and Use
Tax) of the Rohnert Park Municipal Code shall be amended to read as follows:

3.21.150 Termination Date

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall not expire, unless terminated
by a unanimous vote of the City Council.

SECTION 2: FULL FORCE AND EFFECT. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided.
Chapter 3.21 (Transactions and Use Tax) of the Rohnert Park Municipal Code shall remain in full
force and effect.

SECTION 3: SEVERABILITY. The City Council hereby declares that every section, paragraph,
sentence, clause, and phrase of this ordinance is severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence,
clause, or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason found to be invalid or unconstitutional, such
invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of the remaining
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases.

SECTION 4: EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be submitted to the voters at an election
to be held on November 5, 2013. Upon approval by a majority of the voters of the City voting on
this Ordinance, the amendment of Chapter 3.21 of the City's Municipal Code shall take effect
immediately and the Transactions and Use Tax shall be continued as provided for in this Ordinance.

SECTION 5: PUBLICATION. The City Clerk of the City of Rohnert Park is hereby directed to
cause the following summary of the ordinance to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation, published and circulated in the City of Rohnert Park:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance amends the termination date of the
existing transactions and use (sales) tax. The tax will no longer expire on the fifth
anniversary. The tax will continue until terminated by a unanimous vote of the City
Council.

SECTION 6: EXECUTION. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this
Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing where indicated below.

PASSED and ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Rohnert Park on this 23rd day of July,
2013, by a two-thirds vote of the Council, by the following roll call vote:

AYES:	Council Members Ahanotu, Mackenzie, Vice Mayor Callinan and Mayor Stafford

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Council Member Belforte

ABSTAIN:	None

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK

ATTEST:

Page 2 of 2

RESOLUTION NO. 2013-114

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ROHNERT PARK:

(1) CALLING AN ELECTION TO ASK THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF ROHNERT
PARK TO APPROVE THE CONTINUATION OF AN EXISTING GENERAL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX OF ONE-HALF CENT; (2) APPROVING THE FORM
OF THE ORDINANCE TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS; (3) REQUESTING
THAT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SONOMA
CONSOLIDATE THE ELECTION WITH THE ESTABLISHED ELECTION TO BE
HELD ON NOVEMBER 5, 2013; AND (4) DIRECTING THE COUNTY ELECTIONS
DEPARTMENT TO CONDUCT THE ELECTION ON THE CITY’S BEHALF

WHEREAS, Rohnert Park was founded in 1962 to create a safe, middle-class community with
easy access to neighborhood parks and pools, and recreational activities, and it is our goal to
maintain our quality of life and keep Rohnert Park a safe place to live, work and raise a family;

WHEREAS, in an election held in June 2010, a majority of the voters approved an
essential services temporary funding measure which imposed a sales tax of one-half cent (0.5%)
on the sale or consumption of tangible personal property within the City of Rohnert Park (the
“Sales Tax”), and since then the City has been able to reduce crime rates and the City’s budget
deficit, as well as keep open the Spreckels Performing Arts Center, the City’s community center
and the senior center and by continuing this existing sales tax we can keep things on the right
track;

WHEREAS, the City's Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance imposing the Sales Tax is found in
Chapter 3.21 of the City's Municipal Code;

WHEREAS, Section 3.21.150 of the City’s Municipal Code sets forth a termination date of the
Sales Tax on September 30, 2015, the fifth anniversary of its adoption, which will repeal the
Sales Tax unless continued by a majority of the voters of the City;

WHEREAS, this measure does not create a new tax and would simply continue the existing
sales tax, at existing rates, that the City has relied upon to maintain essential services;

WHEREAS, continuing the existing sales tax ensures our City has a guaranteed source of local
funding for our vital City services that cannot be taken by Sacramento, ensuring our tax dollars
are spent locally for Rohnert Park residents;

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters at a special municipal election on
November 5, 2013 a proposed ordinance to continue the Sales Tax;

WHEREAS, when a City seeks voter approval to continue a Sales Tax, article XIIIC, section
2(b) of the California Constitution requires the election to be consolidated with the general
municipal election for City councilmembers, except in cases in which a City Council has
unanimously declared that there is a fiscal emergency.

WHEREAS, the next general municipal election is not scheduled until November 2014. If the
City waited until November 2014 and the Sales Tax is not continued by the voters, it will be
repealed in 2015 and the City will have to make drastic cuts to essential services to address the
loss of revenue. An election earlier than November 2014 is therefore required;

WHEREAS, by the adoption of Resolution No. 2013-106, the City has unanimously declared
that a fiscal emergency exists in accordance with article X11IC, section 2(b) of the California
Constitution, and therefore an election prior to November 2014 is permitted;

WHEREAS, the City has seen dramatic decreases in revenue because of a declining economy
and continued takeaways by the State;

WHEREAS, the State has already taken millions of dollars from Rohnert Park - reducing the
City’s revenue by $1.4 million in the past year alone - and those cuts present significant fiscal
challenge to our City;

WHEREAS, the City has slashed its budget by cutting service positions, reforming employee
pensions, purchasing essentials with grant funding, conserving energy to keep costs down, and
participating in purchase pools with other cities to lower expenses;

WHEREAS, the City has had to freeze positions in all City Departments, including a dramatic
reduction to Public Safety Department - from 80 Public Safety Officers to the current total of 57
today. This reduction in Public Safety Officers has increased our response times in both the
police and fire departments. Increased response times to 911 calls potentially place our citizens
at risk in emergency situations where every second counts;

WHEREAS, the City has projected a significant General Fund operating deficit over the next
several years should the current economic trends continue;

WHEREAS, while the City has already made budget cuts to address its deficit to all
departments, including significantly reducing the total number of City employees, the City still
faces more cuts to essential City services, street paving and pothole repair, and park
maintenance;

WHEREAS, based upon a community opinion survey conducted this year, the community has
expressed a clear interest in supporting the City in order to maintain 911 emergency and medical
response services, preserve the safety of Rohnert Park, maintain gang and sex offender
enforcement, and maintain and protect vital police and fire services provided by the City’s Public
Safety Officers;

WHEREAS, the community opinion survey also shows over two-thirds of respondents would
support continuing the Sales Tax to maintain and protect City services;

WHEREAS, the City Council held a noticed public hearing on July 23, 2013 to consider calling
a special election to seek voter approval of a proposed general transactions (sales) and use tax as
authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9;

2013-114

2	of 6

WHEREAS, at the conclusion of that hearing, the City Council concluded that all of the
information presented indicated that the Council should call an election as soon as possible to
ask the voters of the City to approve an extension of the existing Sales Tax, the revenue from
which could be used to support general municipal services;

WHEREAS, the existing Sales Tax is and would continue to be imposed on retail transactions
involving, and use of, personal property. The tax rate is and would continue to be one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The tax revenue is and would continue to
be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City. The termination date
would be eliminated and the tax would remain in effect until it is suspended by a unanimous vote
of the City Council. The continuation of the existing tax shall be approved if the measure
receives at least a majority of affirmative votes;

WHEREAS, Elections Code sections 9280 et seq. set forth the procedures for arguments in
favor of or in opposition to any City measure and the procedures for rebuttal arguments;

WHEREAS, based on all of the information presented at the July 23rd 2013 meeting, both
written and oral, including the staff reports, minutes, and other relevant materials, the City
Council finds that under CEQA Guidelines 15060(c)(2) and 15378(b)(2) and (4), this tax does
not constitute a project under CEQA and therefore review under CEQA is not required.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Rohnert
Park that the foregoing Recitals are true and correct and are hereby adopted by the City Council.
Based on those Recitals, the Council unanimously finds and declares as follows:

SECTION 1. As declared by Resolution 2013-106, duly adopted on June 25, 2013, an
emergency exists due to the City's impending budget deficit of approximately $1.4 million,
which threatens to cause severe reductions in City programs and services posing an immediate
threat to the public health, welfare and safety of residents of the City of Rohnert Park.

SECTION 2. Pursuant to California Constitution article XI1IC, Section 2, subsection
(b); Government Code section 53724; and Elections Code section 9222, the City Council of the
City of Rohnert Park hereby calls an election at which it shall submit to the qualified voters of
the City, a measure relating to the adoption of a transactions and use tax. This measure shall be
designated by letter by the Sonoma County Elections Department. Pursuant to Election Code
section 10400 et seq., the election for this measure shall be consolidated with the established
consolidated primary election to be conducted on November 5, 2013.

SECTION 3. The Ordinance continuing the existing general transactions and use tax to
be approved by the voters pursuant to Section 2, is as set forth in Exhibit A hereto and
incorporated by this reference. The City Council hereby approves the Ordinance, the form
thereof, and its submission to the voters of the City at the November 5, 2013 election, as required
by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9, subject to the approval of a majority of the voters
voting on the measure at the election called by the adoption of this Resolution. The Ordinance
continues the existing Sales Tax and the existing rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the
City and one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of tangible personal property stored,

3	of 6

used or otherwise consumed in the City, without raising existing tax rates. The State Board of
Equalization shall continue to collect the tax from retailers subject to the tax and remit the funds
to the City.

SECTION 4. In accordance with Section 12111 of the Elections Code and Section 6061
of the Government Code, the City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause notice of the
measure to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation, printed, published, and
circulated in the City of Rohnert Park and hereby designated for that purpose by the City Council
of the City of Rohnert Park. The City Clerk may request that the County of Sonoma Elections
Department prepare and publish the required notice.

SECTION 5. Pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California relating
to cities within said State, the following proposed measure shall be added to the ballot for the
November 5, 2013, election and thereby submitted to the voters of the City:

Rohnert Park Continuation of Essential City Services Funding Measure

To preserve the safety and character of Rohnert Park, and maintain/protect
general City services, including 9-1-1 emergency response; fire protection;
neighborhood police patrols; gang/sex offender enforcement; disaster
preparedness; street paving/pothole repair; park maintenance; and other essential
services, shall the City of Rohnert Park continue a voter-approved 'A cent sales
tax, subject to annual audits and public review, keeping money from
Sacramento, and without raising existing tax rates?

□Yes

□ No

SECTION 6. The official ballot to be used at said election shall conform to the laws of
the State of California with relation thereto.

SECTION 7. The City Council authorizes the Registrar of Voters to consolidate this
election with the established election on November 5, 2013, for the ease and convenience of the
registered voters and to take advantage of any cost savings possible by such consolidation.

SECTION 8. The City Clerk may request the assistance of the County of Sonoma
Election Department in regard to said General Municipal Election, as the City Clerk deems
necessary.

SECTION 9. The City shall reimburse the County for services performed when the
work is completed and upon presentation to the City of a properly approved bill.

SECTION 10. The election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding
municipal elections.

SECTION 11. The notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the
City Clerk is directed to give further or additional notice of the election in the time, form and
manner as required by law.

2013-114

4	of 6

SECTION 12. The City Clerk is hereby directed to submit to the City Attorney a
certified copy of the measure. The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to prepare an
impartial analysis of the ballot measure showing the effect of the measure on the existing law
and operation of the measure, said analysis to be submitted by the City Attorney to the Registrar
of Voters, or other appropriate office of the County of Sonoma, for printing by the date set by the
City Clerk for the filing of arguments for and against the measure. The analysis shall not exceed
500 words in length and shall otherwise comply in all respects with the applicable provisions of
the Elections Code of the State of California.

SECTION 13. In accordance with the provisions of the Elections Code (Sections 9290
and following), the Auditor is directed to prepare a fiscal analysis, and the Mayor is authorized
and directed to submit an argument in support of the Measure and a response to any argument in
opposition to the Measure.

SECTION 14. The City Clerk shall fix and determine a date for submission of
arguments for or against said Measure, and said date shall be posted in the Office of the City
Clerk.

SECTION 15. The election on the measure set forth in sections 3 and 5 of this
resolution shall be held and conducted, the votes canvassed and the returns made, and the results
ascertained and determined as provided for herein. In all particulars not prescribed in this
resolution, the election shall be held as prescribed in the Elections Code of the State of
California. The Board of Supervisors of the County of Sonoma is authorized to canvas the
returns of that election with respect to the votes cast in the City of Rohnert Park and certify the
results to the City Council. At the next regular meeting of the City Council occurring after the
returns of the election have been canvassed and the certification of the results to the City
Council, the City Council shall cause to be entered in its minutes a statement of the results of the
election.

SECTION 16. This resolution shall be forthwith entered upon the minutes of this
Council and kept and maintained by the City Clerk of the City of Rohnert Park.

SECTION 17. The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to expend the
necessary funds to pay for the City’s cost of placing the measure on the election ballot.

SECTION 18. The City Clerk is hereby ordered to certify to the adoption of this
resolution, notice and proclamation, and to file copies hereof, so certified, with the Clerk of the
Board of supervisors of the County of Sonoma and with the Registrar of Voters of the County of
Sonoma, and to enter it into the book of original resolutions.

//

//

//

5	of 6

This Resolution and the attached Ordinance are PASSED AND ADOPTED this 23rd day of
July, 2013, by a two-thirds vote of the Council, by the following roll call vote:

AYES:	FOUR	(4)	Councilmembers	Ahanotu, Mackenzie, Callinan and Mayor	Stafford

NOES:	NONE	(0)

ABSENT:	ONE	(1)	Councilmember	Belforte

ABSTAIN: NONE	(0)

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK

Pain kjiuiiuiu, mujui

Attachments: Exhibit A - Ordinance

2013-114

6 of 6

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ROHNERT PARK, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING THE
ROHNERT PARK MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 3.21.150 TO CONTINUE THE
EXISTING TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX

WHEREAS, on June 25, 2013, the City Council unanimously declared a fiscal emergency under
Article XIIIC, section 2(b) of the California Constitution by adopting Resolution No. 2013-106;

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 7285.9 and 7290, the
City of Rohnert Park ("City") has the authority to levy a Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax for
general purposes;

WHEREAS, in an election held in June 2010, the City Council proposed and a majority of
the voters approved an essential services temporary funding measure which imposed a one-half cent
sales tax (0.5%) on the sale or consumption of tangible personal property within the City of Rohnert
Park (the “Sales Tax”),

WHEREAS, the City's Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance imposing the Sales Tax is found in
Chapter 3.21 of the City's Municipal Code;

WHEREAS, Section 3.21.150 of the City’s Municipal Code sets forth a termination date of the
Sales Tax on the fifth anniversary of its adoption, which will repeal the Sales Tax on September 30,
2015, unless continued by a majority of the voters of the City;

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the continuation of the existing Sales Tax,
without raising existing tax rates, is critical to funding the City’s essential services, preserving the
safety and character of Rohnert Park, and ensuring that our City has a guaranteed source of local
funding that cannot be taken by Sacramento;

WHEREAS, the City conducted a community opinion survey which shows over two-thirds (2/3) of
respondents would support continuing the Sales Tax to maintain and protect City services;

WHEREAS, the City Council, by adopting Resolution No. 2013-114, authorized placing the matter
of continuing the Sales Tax before the voters of Rohnert Park at the November 5, 2013 election; and

WHEREAS, the termination date in Section 3.21.150 of the City’s Municipal Code must be
amended to continue the Sales Tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, the People of the City of Rohnert Park do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1: AMENDMENT. Section Chapter 3.21.150 of Chapter 3.21 (Transaction and Use
Tax) of the Rohnert Park Municipal Code shall be amended to read as follows:

3.21.150 Termination Date

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall not expire, unless terminated
by a unanimous vote of the City Council.

SECTION 2: FULL FORCE AND EFFECT. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided.
Chapter 3.21 (Transaction and Use Tax) of the Rohnert Park Municipal Code shall remain in full
force and effect.

SECTION 3: SEVERABILITY. The City Council hereby declares that every section, paragraph,
sentence, clause, and phrase of this ordinance is severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence,
clause, or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason found to be invalid or unconstitutional, such
invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of the remaining
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases.

SECTION 4: EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be submitted to the voters at an election
to be held on November 5, 2013. Upon approval by a majority of the voters of the City voting on
this Ordinance, the amendment of Chapter 3.21 of the City's Municipal Code shall take effect
immediately and the Transactions and Use Tax shall be continued as provided for in this Ordinance.

SECTION 5: PUBLICATION. The City Clerk of the City of Rohnert Park is hereby directed to
cause the following summary of the ordinance to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation, published and circulated in the City of Rohnert Park:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance amends the termination date of the
existing transactions and use (sales) tax. The tax will no longer expire on the fifth
anniversary. The tax will continue until terminated by a unanimous vote of the City
Council.

SECTION 5: EXECUTION. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this
Ordinance by the voters of the City by signing where indicated below.

PASSED and ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Rohnert Park on this 23rd day of July,
2013, by a two-thirds vote of the Council, by the following roll call vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK

Pam Stafford, Mayor

ATTEST:

JoAnne Buergler, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Page 2 of 2

Michelle Marchetta Kenyon, City Attorney