ORDINANCE NO. 13-01

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FIREBAUGH
AMENDING CHAPTER 22.5 OF THE FIREBAUGH MUNICIPAL CODE
RELATED TO THE CITY’S UTILITY USERS TAX

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Firebaugh (the “Council”), by Ordinance
No. 88-2, submitted to the qualified electors in the City a measure to establish a utility users tax
within the City, fixed the date of an election thereon as June 7, 1988, and provided the manner of
holding the election and other matters related thereto; and

WHEREAS, the measure to establish the utility users tax and authorize its imposition by
the City, as described in Ordinance No. 88-2, was approved by the legally required number of
electors and was codified as Chapter 22.5 of the Firebaugh Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, by Ordinance 99-05, the Council amended the Utility Users Tax Ordinance;

and

WHEREAS, the Council has now determined to further amend Chapter 22.5 of the
Firebaugh Municipal Code, subject to voter approval.

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FIREBAUGH ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1.
SECTION 2.
SECTION 3.
SECTION 4.

Section 22.5-3e is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Section 22.5-4e is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Section 22.5-5e is hereby repealed in its entirety
Section 22.5-3a is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Upon the passage of the Measure, there will be imposed a tax on the amounts paid for
any intrastate telephone services by every rate payer in the City other than a telephone
corporation using such services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of
ten percent (10%) for residential rate payers and seven and one-half percent (7.5%) for
commercial rate payers, of the charges made for such services and shall be paid by the
person paying for such services.”

SECTION 5. Section 22.5-4a is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Upon the passage of the Measure, there will be imposed a tax on the amounts paid for
any intrastate telephone services by every rate payer in the City other than an electrical
corporation or a gas corporation, using electrical energy in the city. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of ten percent (10%) for residential rate payers and seven
and one-half percent (7.5%) for commercial rate payers, of the total charges made for
such energy, and for any supplemental services related to the provision of electrical

1

energy, provided by one (1) or more service suppliers, including a non-utility supplier, to
a service user. The tax shall be paid by the person paying for such electrical energy and
supplemental services.

As used in this section, “charges” shall include charges made for (1) metered electrical
energy, (2) minimum charges for services, including customer charges, service charges,
demand charges, standby charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, (3) supplemental
services related to the provision of electrical energy, whether or not the service supplier
also supplies the electrical energy commodity, and (4) all other annual and other periodic
charges authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission. Charges for “supplemental services related to the provision of
electrical energy” shall include charges for (1) wheeling, transmission or distribution, and
(2) standby, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation, emergency or other
similar services. Charges shall include monetary payments and the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for electrical energy or supplemental services related to the
provision of electrical energy.”

SECTION 6. Section 22.5-5a is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Upon the passage of the Measure, there will be imposed a tax upon every rate payer in
the City, other than a gas corporation using gas in the city which is delivered through
mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of ten percent (10%)
for residential rate payers and seven and one-half percent (7.5%) for commercial rate
payers, of the charges made for such gas, including the gas commodity and services
related to the storage, transportation and delivery of such gas, whether by one (1) or more
service suppliers, including a non-utility supplier. The tax shall be paid by the person
paying for such gas commodity or services.”

SECTION 7. A new Section 22.5-14 entitled “ADJUSTMENT OF RATES” is hereby
added to read as follows:

“a. On July 1, 2019, the residential rates set forth in Sections 22-5.3a, 22.5-4a, and
22.5-5a shall be automatically reduced from ten percent (10%) to seven and one-half
percent (7.5%).

b. On or after July 1, 2019, the City Council may, by a supermajority (4/5) vote by
resolution, lower the commercial rates set forth in Sections 22-5.3a, 22.5-4a, and 22.5-5a
from seven and one-half percent (7.5%) to five percent (5%) if the City Council makes
findings that one or more of the following conditions exist:

1.	The balance owed from the City’s General Fund to the City’s Enterprise
Funds is less than $100,000 and the City’s General Fund Budget will remain
balanced after reducing the rates as set forth above; or

2.	The City Council makes findings that the seven and one-half percent

2

(7.5%) rate charged to commercial rate payers is causing one or more of the
following unintended results:

(a)	Commercial rate payers are switching to solar power to avoid
payment of the City’s Utility Users Tax; or

(b)	Industrial or other large businesses have refused to locate in,
avoided expansion in, or have left the City as a result of the Utility Users
Tax.

3.	The Utility Users Tax rates may not be lowered below seven and one-half
percent (7.5%) for residential and five percent (5%) for commercial, unless approved by
a vote of the registered voters of the City.”

SECTION 8. This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of the
voters voting thereon and shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City
Council. The City Clerk is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance where
indicated below.

The foregoing Ordinance No. 13-01 was introduced at a special meeting of the City
Council of the City of Firebaugh on the 8th day of April, 2013, and was passed and adopted at a
regular meeting of the City Council on the 15th day of April 2013, by the following vote:

AYES:	Knight, Jenkins, Valdez, Sablan

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:	DeFrancesco

APPROVED:

ATTEST:

Marcia Sablan, Mayor
City of Firebaugh

Rita Lozano, Deputy City Clerk
City of Firebaugh

3

J:\wdoes\01907\00 l\ord\00271661 .DOC