City of Brisbane

Compiled by City of Brisbane City Clerk Ms. Sheri Spediacci

Measure T

To pay for general municipal expenses, shall the City increase the annual business license tax for liquid storage facilities up to $115.28
per one thousand cubic feet of liquid storage capacity, and provide for an offset for sales tax revenue received ?

Full Text__________________________ Impartial	Analysis	of	Measure	T

“AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
BRISBANE ADDING SECTION 5.20.011 OF
THE BRISBANE MUNICIPAL CODE TO
INCREASE THE BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
CHARGED TO LIQUID STORAGE FACILITIES

The People of the City of Brisbane, California, hereby
ordain as follows:

§1:	A	new	Section	5.20.011 in Chapter 5.20 of the Brisbane

Municipal Code is added to read as follows:

Section 5.20.011 Liquid Storage Facilities.

A.	Any person engaged in the business of operating,
leasing, supplying or providing a liquid storage
facility shall pay an annual business license tax of
up to one hundred and fifteen dollars and twenty-
eight cents per year for each one thousand cubic
feet of liquid storage capacity.

B.	The annual amount of liquid storage facilities
license tax payable by any person shall be reduced
by the amount of sales or use tax received by
the city attributable to such person, or sales tax
attributable to other persons, based on sales of
liquids using the liquid storage facilities as the
point-of-sale, during the same calendar year (the
“sales tax credit”).

Ballot Measure T was placed on the ballot by the City Council
and proposes the adoption of an increased business license tax for
liquid storage facilities in the City of Brisbane.

The City of Brisbane currently imposes a business license tax on
any business that is located in the City, pursuant to Chapter 5.20 of
the Brisbane Municipal Code. Liquid storage facilities currently
pay a business license tax that is based on either gross receipts or
number of employees, whichever produces the larger tax. The
2012 business license tax paid by liquid storage facilities in the
City of Brisbane was approximately $1,056. The business license
tax is a general tax, and the tax proceeds are deposited into the
City’s general fund and may be used for any municipal purpose.

The proposed amendment to the business license tax ordinance
would set an increased rate of up to $115.28 per 1,000 cubic feet
of liquid storage capacity. The actual annual tax rate would be
established by Council resolution, and the increased tax rate could
be, but is not required to be, phased in. The tax due from liquid
storage facilities would be reduced, on a dollar for dollar basis,
for sales tax received as the result of sales from the liquid storage
facilities by either the operator of the liquid storage facility or
other persons using the liquid storage facility as the point of sale.

When fully implemented, the effect of the increased business
license tax for liquid storage facilities is anticipated to increase
tax revenues by approximately $400,000 based on the capacity of
current liquid storage facilities in the City of Brisbane. The tax
cannot be increased in the future without voter approval.

A “Yes” vote is a vote in favor of increasing the business license
tax on liquid storage facilities.

A “No” vote is a vote against increasing the business license tax
on liquid storage facilities. A majority of “Yes” votes is required
for the ballot measure to pass.

A complete copy of the proposed ordinance is printed in this ballot
pamphlet.

DAVID KAHN

City Attorney

City of Brisbane

Compiled by City of Brisbane City Clerk Ms. Sheri Spediacci
Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument in Favor of Measure T

We encourage you to vote yes to increase business license taxes on
liquid storage facilities like the tank farm on Tunnel Avenue. This
increase helps secure funding for communitywide services that
keep Brisbane safe, and preserve of our quality of life.

Why we need it? Over the past several years our community
has experienced an unparalleled economic downturn. The loss
of our biggest revenue producer, VWR, and decrease in property
values have demonstrated our vulnerability to the volatility of
the economy. We need to diversify our tax base. Approving this
measure will increase our tax base and help secure our General
Fund, which supports important public services: public safety,
emergency response, road repair, parks, recreation, and open space
acquisition and management - benefiting the whole Brisbane
community.

What is the Fiscal Benefit? If fully phased in, this new revenue
source may add approximately $400,000 to our General Fund.
This measure provides for a not-to-exceed rate of $115.28 per
1,000 cubic feet of storage, so Council can phase in the tax at its
discretion to make the transition reasonable.

Is this tax fair? Our community continues to explore every
possibility to ensure our long-term financial future without placing
an undue burden on residents or businesses. The City has cut
staff, lowered wages, increased taxes on hotels and other large
corporations; yet our fiscal future is still uncertain. This measure
requires businesses that own large liquid storage facilities to pay
their fair share.

Originally the Tank Farm was a relatively bigger source of revenue
as it was a sales tax producer. Currently this is not the case and
has not been so for the past several decades.

SUPPORT OUR COMMUNITY’S FISCAL HEALTH. Vote YES
on Measure T.

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure T

Brisbane can’t afford to lose another business.

In the last three years, two large companies have left our
community, taking their jobs and tax revenue with them. Now,
city leaders want to increase taxes on Kinder Morgan and force
them to pay 400 times more. This is just bad economic planning.

If this unfair tax passes, Kinder Morgan may be the next business
forced out of our city. Without them we will be left with an
empty, blighted tank site and a huge hole in our city budget. And
we may face more cuts to city services - like public safety, road
repair, and parks - without the taxes and fees Kinder Morgan
currently pays.

Kinder Morgan is willing to pay their fair share and tried to work
with the city on a reasonable plan. Instead of working together,
city officials are steamrolling them and going straight to the ballot.
This is not the way we should do business if we want companies
to stay and keep contributing to our economy.

Brisbane needs a plan to attract and retain businesses that will
increase our revenue base. City officials say they want to diversity
our tax base, but all they are doing is taxing one company and
making it harder to do business here.

Instead of pushing out businesses, Brisbane politicians need to do
a better job of managing our finances.

I urge you to vote “no” on Measure T and protect Brisbane.

/s/ Walter Peters	August	22,	2013

Brisbane Resident

/s/ Raymond C. Miller

Mayor, City of Brisbane

/s/ W. Clarke Conway

Mayor Pro Tern, City of Brisbane

/s/ Clifford R. Lentz

Council Member, City of Brisbane

/s/ Terry O’Connell

Council Member, City of Brisbane

August 12, 2013
August 15, 2013
August 15, 2013
August 12, 2013

City of Brisbane

Compiled by City of Brisbane City Clerk Ms. Sheri Spediacci
Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Argument Against Measure T_____Rebuttal	to	Argument	Against	Measure	T

I’ve lived in Brisbane for over 50 years, and I’m urging you
to vote NO on Measure T. Measure T is unfair. It will hurt our
community and our local economy.

Kinder Morgan has been a part of our community for more than 40
years. They provide a vital service to the entire Bay Area - storing
and supplying fuel, particularly for the San Francisco International
Airport. They operate a safe business that contributes to our local
economy by paying taxes and fees that support our city budget.
Kinder Morgan also leases property to the city to use at a steep
discount - $1 per year. They are exactly the kind of responsible,
caring business that we want to keep in our community.

The plant has a good safety record and makes significant efforts
to remediate any possible contamination. They continually
outperform the industry average in virtually all safety categories.

But now city officials are proposing another new, huge tax that is
aimed at hurting Kinder Morgan. It’s not fair; especially given
everything else Kinder Morgan pays to help run our city. Kinder
Morgan has been good to our community and provides a vital
service to the entire Bay Area. It’s wrong to punish them for no
reason.

If this unfair tax passes, we could lose hundreds of thousands of
dollars in tax revenue. And if Kinder Morgan is forced to shut its
doors, we could be left with an empty, blighted site and the airport
will have to truck its fuel in, raising gas prices for everyone. We
can’t afford to lose another company. It doesn’t make sense to
pass a tax that will hurt us all in the end.

I urge you to vote NO on Measure T to stop this unfair tax and
protect our community.

/s/ Walter Peters	August	15,	2013

Brisbane Resident

The modest tax proposed for liquid storage tanks is fair and
economically realistic.

Kinder Morgan, the current owner of the tank farm, was
established in 1997 as a spinoff from Enron. Its web site claims
that it is the “largest independent terminal operator in North
America” with an enterprise value of $115 billion. It is a Fortune
500 company with over $300 million in profits and over 10,000
employees. A major function of its Brisbane terminal is the
storage and transmission of jet fuel for San Francisco Airport, a
need that is likely to be around for a long time.

Currently the Kinder Morgan tank farm pays to the City less than
$1,300 annually in business license taxes and only $23,739 in
property taxes. Other businesses such as Recology and the hotels
pay millions of dollars in taxes. Kinder Morgan could easily
afford to pay more in taxes so that it contributes its fair share.

The proposed tax will be phased in, and if sales taxes are collected
from any of the oil companies who use the facility, they will offset
Kinder Morgan’s tax obligation. This tax is a modest effort to
compensate for the originally promised continuous flow of sales
tax revenue that never materialized.

Kinder Morgan has been more proactive in dealing with safety
issues than previous owners. However, that should not exempt
them from paying their fair share of the taxes that the City needs
to provide essential public services.

Please vote yes on Measure T.

/s/ Raymond C. Miller	August	23,	2013

Mayor