CITY OF LARKSPUR MEASURE L	
MEASURE L: Shall there be a continuation of the four year special tax for paramedic services in the amount of $57 in the first year and raising the tax $6 annually to a maximun taxable living unit, or per 1500 square fee on a developed parcel in non-residential i appropriations limit increased by the amou for the next four years?	YES
	NO
	l of $75 per t of structure rse, with the nt of said tax

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE L

CITY OF LARKSPUR
The City Council of the City of Larkspur placed Measure
L on the November 4,2014 ballot to ask voters to extend
the existing special parcel tax for paramedic services
(“tax” or “Paramedic Tax”) for an additional 4 years. The
tax funds services provided by the Ross Valley Paramedic
Authority (“Authority”) and will expire on June 30,2015,
unless extended by the voters.

In 1983, the voters of Larkspur, along with the other voters
within the boundaries of the Authority initially approved
the Paramedic Tax. Voters have approved extensions and
increases in the Paramedic Tax since that time. The current
Paramedic Tax was approved by voters in 2010. The cur-
rent rate of the tax is $51 for each residential living unit and
for each 1,500 square feet of non-residential developed
space, plus a $0.50 Marin County administrative fee. The
authority for Paramedic Tax is set to expire on June 30,
2015 unless it is extended by the voters.

Measure L would authorize continuing the Paramedic Tax
for another 4 years, until 2019, when it would again have
to be renewed by the voters. The Measure would also set
the rate at $57 annually for each taxable living unit and for
each 1,500 square feet of non-residential developed space,
and authorize annual increases of $6, with a maximum rate
in the fourth year of $75.

As a special tax, the Paramedic Tax is restricted to funding
paramedic services, including but not limited to emer-
gency response, training, costs of medical supplies and
equipment, and replacement of ambulance transport units.
If Measure L were approved, the Paramedic Tax would
terminate automatically after four years, unless extended
by a subsequent vote of the voters within the Ross Valley
Paramedic Authority.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve the extension of the Para-
medic Tax for four years and authorize annual increases of
$6, with a maximum rate not to exceed $75 in the fourth
year. A “no” vote is a vote against extension of the Para-
medic Tax, which will terminate automatically in June 2015
if not extended. Measure L would be approved if it received
a two-thirds majority of “yes” voters. A copy of the resolu-
tion approving the tax is included in the sample ballot.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure L.
If you desire a copy of the measure, please call the City
Clerk’s office at (415) 927-5002 and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Since 1983, the voters in the Ross Valley have overwhelm-
ingly approved a special tax to provide paramedic service.
To continue this high standard of emergency medical care
for four more years, you must now re-approve this tax. The
initial Ross Valley Paramedic Authority (RVPA) tax pro-
vided for a single ambulance. The demand for paramedic
service from our citizens dictates that service levels con-
tinue to expand and evolve. We are seeking to continue the
Paramedic Tax for another 4 years, until 2019, when it
would again have to be renewed by the voters. The
Measure would set the rate at $57 annually for each taxable
living unit and for each 1500 square feet of non-residential
developed space, and authorize annual increases of $6,
with a maximum rate in the fourth year of $75.

As a special tax, the Paramedic Tax is restricted to funding
paramedic services, including but not limited to emer-
gency response, training, costs of medical supplies and
equipment, and replacement of ambulance transport units.
Your parcel tax pays for a significant portion of the para-
medic program and enables us to not directly bill our Ross
Valley resident customers. Additional funds are collected
from medical insurance companies and through billing of
non-resident customers. In addition, your tax covers
expenses associated with paramedic training, medical sup-
plies and equipment, and the replacement of ambulance
vehicles when needed.

In order to maintain our current levels of service and to
plan for future improvements based on community demand
for high quality, fire department-based advanced life sup-
port paramedic services, we are seeking your support.

Our goal is to continue to provide state of the art para-
medic care in the Ross Valley. We need your vote to con-
tinue this vital service. Vote YES on Measure L.
s/ANN MORRISON
Mayor

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE L WAS FILED.

s/SKY WOODRUFF
City Attorney

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans recommends that
you vote “NO” on Measure L. Our reasoning follows:

•	Measure L requests taxpayer money to provide ser-
vices that should be funded through the normal
operating revenues of the City.

•	The City has asked for funding to mask the system-
atic mismanagement of their operations.

•	Money is fungible. A “YES” vote on Measure L is
a vote to allow our elected officials to avoid setting
priorities and allocating funds appropriately.

•	The systematic mismanagement of operations is
highlighted through excessive pensions and retiree
medical plans.

Mismanaged pensions and other retirement plans are
endemic in the public sector and the City is no exception.
These plans suffer from major problems:

•	The plans are extremely generous. The value of the
plans dwarfs the value of corresponding plans pro-
vided in the private sector.

•	In addition to their lavish plan costs, the plans are
subject to extreme cost fluctuations and risk. The
costs of plans are based upon very optimistic
assumptions. Unless those assumptions are met
(and they have not been this century), there is a
funding shortfall (i.e., unfunded liability). This
shortfall is recovered through increased contribu-
tions from the City (i.e., the taxpayer).

•	These higher contributions come at a cost. Either
the City reduces services or it requests more money.
Measure L is an example of a request for more
money from the taxpayer.

If taxpayers vote for Measure L, they are enabling the City
to continue its mismanagement by maintaining its rich and
financially volatile retirement plans. A better idea is that
the City reform its plans to stabilize its budget and to elim-
inate the need for taxpayer requests such as Measure L.
Vote against this measure!
s/JODY MORALES
Founder and President,

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE L

Many of us support CSPP’s efforts regarding pension
awareness. However, “not supporting Measure L” because
of city employee pensions is not fact-based and would be
detrimental to our residents.

•	Larkspur is not mismanaged. The budget is tightly
controlled by staff and council. The budgeted Gen-
eral Expenditures for 2013-14 were $31,385 lower
than what was proposed in 2008-09, the year of the
Great Recession. Larkspur has taken all available
measures to reduce our pension costs and future lia-
bilities, and continues to work aggressively on
other post-employment benefits.

•	There is no ‘extra’ city money for paramedic ser-
vices.

•	These services have been voter funded since 1983.
The funds are restricted to emergency response Fire
Department-based advanced life support paramedic
services. Due to the significant cost associated with
providing paramedic services, each of the eight
communities in the Ross Valley formed a partner-
ship to share the costs of the program. This is one
of the longest running and most successful region-
al agency partnerships in Marin.

•	Because of the funding support of the RVPA prop-
erty tax, there is no direct cost to a Ross Valley res-
ident for paramedic care or emergency ambulance
transport.

•	If the measure fails, patients could be charged in
order to help off-set the costs of providing paramedic
service and ambulance transport. The cost to the tax-
payers will actually be higher.

Please join me and our community to continue the high
level of responsible paramedic services in the Ross Valley.
Vote YES on Measure L.
s/ANN MORRISON
Mayor

LK-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L

RESOLUTION No. 30/14
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF LARKSPUR PROPOSING TO CON-
TINUE THE SPECIAL TAX FOR PARAMEDIC
SERVICES FOR AN ADDITIONAL FOUR YEARS;
AND CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE
HOLDING OF AN ELECTION TO BE HELD
NOVEMBER 4,2014, AND REQUESTING THE
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF
MARIN TO CONSOLIDATE SAID ELECTION;
AND AUTHORIZING THE CITY CLERK OR HER
DULY AUTHORIZED OFFICERS AND AGENCY
TO CARRY OUT ALL THE NECESSARY PROCE-
DURES FOR SAID ELECTION SUBMITTING TO
THE VOTERS THE QUESTION RELATING TO
CONTINUING THE SPECIAL TAX FOR
PARAMEDIC SERVICES

WHEREAS, on November 2,2010, the voters of the City
of Larkspur approved a special tax for the
funding of paramedic services in the City for
four years through the Ross Valley Para-
medic Authority;

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Larkspur and
the Board of Directors of the Ross Valley
Paramedic Authority does hereby call for an
election on November 4, 2014, for the pur-
pose of increasing the special tax for para-
medic services for an additional four years
beginning at $57 in the first year and raising
the tax $6 annually to a maximum amount of
$75 per taxable living or per 1,500 square
feet of structure on a developed parcel in
non-residential use, with the appropriations
limit increased by the amount of said tax for
the next four years;

WHEREAS, under the provisions of the laws relating to
general law cities in the State of California,
an election shall be held on November 4,
2014, for the submission to the voters of a
question relating to continuing the special
tax for paramedic services;

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the election be consoli-
dated with the statewide election to be held
on the same date, and that within the City,
the precincts, polling places, and election
officers of the two elections be the same;
WHEREAS, it is desirable that the County Election De-
partment of the County of Marin canvass the
returns of the General Election and that the
election be handled in all respects as if there
were only one election; and
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the vot-
ers at the election a question relating to con-
tinuing the special tax for paramedic services.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE

CITY OF LARKSPUR DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE,

DETERMINE, AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. The City Council is authorized to present a
proposition to the voters for their considera-
tion pursuant to Government Code Sections
50077 and 53724.

Section 2. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws
of the State of California relating to General
Law Cities, there is called and ordered to be
held in the City of Larkspur, California, on
Tuesday, November 4, 2014, an election to
submit the question set forth in Section 4 here-
of to the voters within the City.

Section 3. That pursuant to the requirements of Section
10400 et seq. of the Elections Code, the Board
of Supervisors of the County of Marin is here-
by requested to consent and agree to the con-
solidation of said election.

Section 4. That the City Council, pursuant to its rights
and authority, does order submitted to the vot-
ers at the election the following question:

Shall there be a continuation of the four year
special tax for paramedic services in the
amount of $57 in the first year and raising the
tax $6 annually to a maximum of $75 per tax-
able living unit, or per 1,500 square feet of
structure on a developed parcel in non-resi-
dential use, with the appropriations limit
increased by the amount of said tax for the
next four years?

Section 5. The special tax to be approved by the voters
pursuant to Section 4 has been set forth in this
resolution.

Section 6. The election to be held in the City and all mat-
ters pertaining thereto shall be conducted in
accordance with the general election laws of
the State of California, as may be applicable to
the City.

Section 7. The Council authorizes the Mayor to prepare a
written argument in favor of the ballot propo-
sition, not to exceed 300 words. At the discre-
tion of the Mayor, the argument may also be
signed by bona fide associations or by individ-
ual voters who are eligible to vote.

Section 8. The City Clerk is directed to cause the posting,
publication, and printing of notices and all
other matters pursuant to the requirements of
the Elections and Government Codes of the
State of California.

Section 9. That the County Election Department is autho-
rized to canvass the returns of said election.
The election will be held in all respects as if
there were only one election, and only one
form of ballot shall be used.

Section 10.That the Board of Supervisors is respectfully
requested to issue instructions to the County
Election Department to take any and all steps

necessary for the holding of the consolidated
elections.

Section 11. That the City Clerk is hereby directed to file a
certified copy of this resolution with the Board
of Supervisors and the County Election
Department of the County of Marin.

Section 12.That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage
and adoption of this Resolution and enter it
into the book of original resolutions.

Section 13.If any provision, sentence, clause, section or
part of this resolution is found to be unconsti-
tutional, illegal or invalid, such finding shall
affect only such provision, sentence, clause,
section or part, and shall not affect or impair
any of the remaining parts of the resolution.
Section 14.This resolution shall be effective upon its
adoption.

IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the City Council of the
City of Larkspur duly introduced and regularly adopted
the foregoing resolution at a special meeting held on the
23rd day of June, 2014 by the following vote, to-wit:
AYES:	COUNCILMEMBER: Chu, Hillmer,

Morrison

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBER: None

ABSENT: COUNCILMEMBER: Haroff, Way
ABSTAIN: COUNCILMEMBER: None

s/ANN MORRISON
Mayor

ATTEST:

s/CYNTHIA HUISMAN
City Clerk

LK-4