RESOLUTION NO. 2014-34

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PINOLE
CALLING AN ELECTION TO ASK THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF PINOLE

TO APPROVE A

GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX OF ONE HALF CENT;

AND REQUESTING THAT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY
OF CONTRA COSTA CONSOLIDATE THE ELECTION WITH THE
ESTABLISHED ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014,
AND DIRECTING THE COUNTY ELECTIONS DEPARTMENT TO CONDUCT
THE ELECTION ON THE CITY’S BEHALF

RECITALS

WHEREAS, the Great Recession of 2008 (“Great Recession") has
presented both immediate and long terms challenges for the City of Pinole
(“City”) in maintaining sustainable levels of essential services to the community;
and

WHEREAS, during the Great Recession, shortly after taking office in
January 2011, Governor Edmund G. Brown, Jr. targeted the dissolution of
Redevelopment Agencies throughout the State of California as a means to
redirect more local revenue resources to the State to help balance the State
budget at the expense of local government, including the City of Pinole; and

WHEREAS, the Legislature had enacted AB xl 26 and AB 1484, which
contain comprehensive legislation that dissolves Redevelopment Agencies in the
State, including the Redevelopment Agency of the City of Pinole; and

WHEREAS, the State dissolution of Redevelopment Agencies has
eliminated a significant source of tax increment funding for Pinole’s
Redevelopment Agency project areas and eliminated all further redevelopment
programs and projects; and

WHEREAS, the City of Pinole, a full service city, has experienced a
general decrease of sales and property tax revenues over the last five budget
cycles; and

WHEREAS, as a direct result of the Great Recession and the dissolution
of the Pinole Redevelopment Agency, the City Council has struggled over the
past several years to continue to provide essential City services to the residents,
with a City staff that has been reduced by over 50 full-time positions; and

WHEREAS, since 2009, the City has adopted a balanced General Fund
budget by ceasing deficit spending, resolving the structural deficit, reducing
staffing levels, entering into labor contracts that increase employee cost sharing



for retirement and health care costs, managing expenditures and increasing user
fees; and

WHEREAS, rebuilding the City’s sales and property tax base will continue
to present a long-term challenge lasting numerous budget cycles; and

WHEREAS, due to the diminishing monies available in the City General
Fund, a host of City services and programs are currently under-funded or at
near-term risk of being under-funded, including but not limited to police and fire
services, infrastructure needs such as maintenance of streets, parks, and
recreation services including youth, family and senior services; and

WHEREAS, the cost of merely maintaining the current level of City
services, even in an under-funded state, may lead to a budgetary deficit by fiscal
year 2015-2016; and

WHEREAS, the Pinole Police Department does not have the necessary
sworn and non-sworn community preservation staff to adequately address crime
and to provide consistent proactive community policing necessary to address
crime; and

WHEREAS, Pinole Police operations have relied on seeking and obtaining
grant funds from the State and Federal government including the COPS More
Grants and the COPS Fast Grants in order to maintain sworn staffing levels; and

WHEREAS, these COPS grants will expire in two years; and

WHEREAS, the City has had to rely on a federal SAFER grant to augment
staffing in the Fire Department; and

WHEREAS, the City has had to “brown out” Pinole Fire Station 74 in
Pinole Valley due to funding constraints; and

WHEREAS, funding constraints have impaired the City’s ability to
maintain public infrastructure facilities such as roadways, storm drains and other
water control and discharge infrastructure in a first class manner, resulting in
deferred or delayed maintenance; and

WHEREAS, the cost of delaying such necessary maintenance will result in
future maintenance costs that are exponentially greater than they are today or
will be in the near future; and

WHEREAS, funding constraints have severely affected Pinole recreation
services, including the Tiny Tots program, the Youth Center, the Senior Center,
the Swim Center, Park maintenance and Cable Television programs; and

2

WHEREAS, the Council approved increases in fees for recreational
services for the City to ensure that the fee amounts fully recaptured the cost of
providing the services; however, the City cannot, charge a fee for all services that
it provides; and

WHEREAS, a one-half of one percent transaction and use tax (“sales tax”)
would generate approximately $1,600,000 per year. That revenue would
minimize the likelihood of a General Fund deficit and would allow the City to
maintain levels of public safety, recreation, parks, streets and other City services;
and

WHEREAS, the proposed sales tax would be a significant source of
revenue for the City at a time when the State’s efforts to balance its budget
increasingly involve redirecting funds from local governments; and

WHEREAS, the absence of additional General Fund revenue will prevent
the City from investing in and building a reserve fund; and

WHEREAS, the City Council held several special and/or regular City
Council meetings and workshops to discuss revenue generating options for
maintaining essential public services, including the possibility of calling a
municipal election to seek voter approval of a proposed general transactions and
use tax (or “sales tax”), as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section
7285.9; and

WHEREAS, the City Council held a regular or special City Council
meeting on the following dates to receive reports from the City Manager, City
Attorney and department heads on current levels of City services and to consider
how the proposed sales tax would address projected shortfalls in said City
services:

February 18, 2014
March 17, 2014
April 1,2014
April 14, 2014
May 6, 2014
May 20, 2014

WHEREAS, at each of those meetings, the City Council had considered
public testimony of those speaking in favor of the sales tax, and those speaking
against the sales tax, and debated the amount of the sales tax; and

WHEREAS, on May 20, 2014, the City Council held a Regular meeting
and conducted a public hearing to specifically consider calling a municipal
election to seek voter approval of a proposed sales tax, as authorized by
Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9; and

WHEREAS, after holding six meetings and conducting a public hearing,
and receiving testimony from the public and additional reports from the City
Manager and City Attorney, the City Council concluded that continuing to provide
municipal services at current levels would require additional revenue; and

WHEREAS, at the conclusion of the public hearing, the City Council
concluded that all of the information presented indicated an acute need to raise
revenue to provide an adequate level of necessary public services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit a sales tax measure to the
electorate of the City of Pinole to be consolidated with the November 4, 2014
municipal election; and

WHEREAS, the sales tax to be submitted to the voters, if approved, would
be imposed on retail transactions involving the transfer and use of personal
property; and

WHEREAS, the tax rate would be one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the
sales price of tangible personal property stored, used or otherwise consumed in
the City; and

WHEREAS, the tax revenue would be collected by the State Board of
Equalization and remitted to the City; and

WHEREAS, the sales tax shall be approved if the measure receives at
least a majority of affirmative votes (fifty percent plus one); and

WHEREAS, Government Code sections 53723 and 53724 require that a
general tax be proposed only upon approval by two-thirds of the City Council;
and

WHEREAS, Government Code sections 53723 and California Constitution
Article XIIIC, Section 2(b) require a majority vote of the voters voting in the
election for the extension of general taxes; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2(b) requires that
the election for the extension of general taxes must be consolidated with a city’s
general municipal election for members of the City Council; and

WHEREAS, November 4, 2014 is the date of the City’s regular municipal
election; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Sections 9219 and 9282 set forth the
procedures for arguments in favor of or in opposition of any City measure; and

WHEREAS, Elections Code Sections 9220 and 9285 set forth the
procedures for rebuttal arguments; and

WHEREAS, based on all of the information presented at the special and
regular City Council meetings and the May 20, 2014 public hearing, both written
and oral, including the staff reports, minutes, and other relevant materials, the
City Council finds that under CEQA Guidelines 15060(c) (2) and 15378,
subdivisions (2) and (4) of subdivision (b), this tax does not constitute a project
under CEQA and therefore review under CEQA is not required.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PINOLE
DOES HEREBY RESOLVE:

1.	The foregoing Recitals are true and correct and are hereby adopted
by the City Council.

2.	Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2;
Government Code Section 53724, and Elections Code Section 9222, the City
Council of the City of Pinole hereby calls an election at which it shall submit to
the qualified voters of the City, a measure that, if approved, would impose a
general transactions and use tax, as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code
section 7285.9. This measure shall be designated by letter by the Contra Costa
County Elections Department. Pursuant to Election Code Section 10400 et seq.,
the election for this measure shall be consolidated with the statewide election to
be conducted on November 4, 2014, which is also the date of the City’s regular
municipal election.

3.	The ordinance authorizing the general tax to be approved by the
voters pursuant to Section 2 is as set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto. The City
Council hereby approves the Ordinance, the form thereof, and its submission to
the voters of the City at the November 4, 2014 election, as required by Revenue
and Taxation Code section 7285.9, subject to the approval of a majority of the
voters voting on the measure at the election called by the adoption of this
resolution. Only the question shall be printed in the voter information portion of
the sample ballot (Exhibit B) and the full text of the proposed Ordinance shall be
available for review at the Office of the City Clerk, City of Pinole, 2131 Pear
Street, Pinole, CA 94564. The full text of the proposed Ordinance will also be
available on the City of Pinole website at www.ci.pinoIe.ca.us. The Ordinance
specifies that the rate of the transactions tax shall be one-half of one percent
(0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in the City; it specifies that the rate of the use tax shall be
one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of tangible personal property
stored, used or otherwise consumed in the City. The State Board of Equalization
shall collect the tax from retailers subject to the tax and remit the funds to the
City.

5

4.	The proposed transactions and use tax ordinance shall be
submitted to the voters on the ballot in the form of the following question:

MEASURE : APPROVAL OF LOCAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX		
City of Pinole Local Sales Tax: Shall an ordinance be adopted enacting a local half-cent transaction and use (sales) tax to maintain essential police and fire services, to prevent the reduction in maintenance of City parks and streets, and to prevent the reduction of youth, family and senior recreational services, subject to annual external audit and review?	YES	
	NO	

5.	The official ballot to be used at said election shall conform to the
provisions of the laws of the State of California with relation thereto.

6.	Pursuant to Election Code Section 9280, the City Attorney shall
prepare an impartial analysis of the ballot measures not to exceed five hundred
words in length showing the effect of the measures on the existing law and the
operation of the measure. The impartial analysis will be submitted by June 9,
2014.

7.	The deadline for filing primary arguments for or against the ballot
measure with the City Clerk shall be Monday, June 9, 2014, and the argument
shall not exceed 300 words in length, and shall be signed by not more than five
persons.

8.	The deadline for filing rebuttal arguments with the City Clerk shall
be June 19, 2014, and shall not exceed 250 words in length and shall be signed
by not more than five persons; those persons may be different persons than the
persons who signed the direct arguments.

9.	The Mayor and any and all City Council members are hereby
authorized to prepare a written argument in favor of the proposed ordinance, not
to exceed 300 words, on behalf of the Pinole City Council. At the Mayor’s
discretion, the argument may also be signed by bona fide associations or by
individual voters who are eligible to vote. Pursuant to Section 9285 of the
California Elections Code, when the City Clerk has selected the arguments for
and against the measure, which will be printed and distributed to the voters, the
City Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the measure to the
authors of the argument against, and copies of the argument against to the
authors of the argument in favor.

10.	Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the
primary arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct
argument, which it seeks to rebut.

6

11.	The City authorizes the Registrar of Voters to consolidate this
election with the established election on November 4, 2014, for the ease and
convenience of the registered voters and to take advantage of any cost savings
possible by such consolidation.

12.	The City Clerk may request the assistance of the County of Contra
Costa Elections Department in regard to said General Municipal Election, as the
City Clerk deems necessary, and the City shall pay the incurred cost of such
assistance.

13.	In accordance with Section 12111 of the Elections Code and
Section 6061 of the Government Code, the City Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to cause notice of the measure to be published once in the West County
Times, a newspaper of general circulation, printed, published, and circulated in
the City of Pinole and hereby designated for that purpose by the Council of
Pinole. The City Clerk may request that the County of Contra Costa Elections
Department prepare and publish the required notice.

14.	The election on the measure set forth in Section 2 shall be held and
conducted, the votes canvassed and the returns made, and the results
ascertained and determined as provided for herein. In all particulars not
prescribed in this resolution, the election shall be held as prescribed in
accordance with the Elections Code of the State of California. The Board of
Supervisors of the County of Contra Costa is authorized to canvas the returns of
that election with respect to the votes cast in the City of Pinole and certify the
results to the City Council. At the next regular meeting of the City Council
occurring after the returns of the election have been canvassed and the
certification of the results to the City Council, the City Council shall cause to be
entered in its minutes a statement of the results of the election.

15.	The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to expend the
necessary funds, including all costs and attorneys’ fees, to pay for the City’s cost
of placing the measure on the election ballot.

16.	The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the
adoption of this Resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Board
of Supervisors and the Registrar of Voters of Contra Costa County, and is
directed to take all steps necessary to place the measure on the ballot. A copy of
the full text of the Ordinance shall be made available to any voter upon request.

7

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 20th day of May, 2014 by the following

vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:	Banuelos,	Green,	Long,	Murray,	Swearingen

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:	None

ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBERS:	None

ABSTAIN:	COUNCILMEMBERS:	None



lira



Ja*ath£nour, MMC

of the City of Pinole

TIM BANUELOS
Mayor of the City of Pinole

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney of the City of Pinole

EXHIBIT A TO RESOLUTION 2014-34

(FULL TEXT AMENDMENT IS NOT PART OF THE VOTER PAMPHLET
PROVIDED FOR INFORMATION ONLY

ORDINANCE NO._______

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF PINOLE
IMPOSING A GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX OF ONE
HALF CENT TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF PINOLE:

Section 1. Findings. The voters of the City of Pinole hereby find as
follows:

a.	WHEREAS, the Great Recession of 2008 (“Great Recession”) has
presented both immediate and long term challenges for the City of Pinole (“City”)
in maintaining sustainable levels of essential services to the community; and

b.	WHEREAS, during the Great Recession, shortly after taking office in
January 2011, Governor Edmund G. Brown, Jr. targeted the dissolution of
Redevelopment Agencies throughout the State of California as a means to
redirect more local revenue resources to the State to help balance the State
budget at the expense of local governments, including the City of Pinole; and

c.	WHEREAS, the Legislature had enacted AB xl 26 and AB 1484,
which contain comprehensive legislation that dissolves Redevelopment Agencies
in the State, including the Redevelopment Agency of the City of Pinole; and

d.	WHEREAS, the State dissolution of Redevelopment Agencies has
eliminated a significant source of tax increment funding for Pinole’s
Redevelopment Agency project areas and eliminated all further redevelopment
programs and projects; and

e.	WHEREAS, the City of Pinole, a full service city, has experienced a
general decrease of sales and property tax revenues over the last five budget
cycles; and

f.	WHEREAS, as a direct result of the Great Recession and the
dissolution of the Pinole Redevelopment Agency, the City Council has struggled
over the past several years to continue to provide essential City services to the
residents, with a City staff that has been reduced by over 50 full-time positions;
and

9

g.	WHEREAS, since 2009, the City has adopted a balanced General
Fund budget by ceasing deficit spending, resolving the structural deficit, reducing
staffing levels, entering into labor contracts that increase employee cost sharing
for retirement and health care costs, managing expenditures and increasing user
fees; and

h.	WHEREAS, rebuilding the City’s sales and property tax base will
continue to present a long-term challenge lasting numerous budget cycles; and

i.	WHEREAS, due to the diminishing monies available in the City
General Fund, a host of City services and programs are currently under-funded
or at near-term risk of being under-funded, including but not limited to police and
fire services, infrastructure needs such as maintenance of streets, parks, and
recreation services including youth, family and senior services; and

j.	WHEREAS, the cost of merely maintaining the current level of City
services, even in an under-funded state, may lead to a budgetary deficit by fiscal
year 2015-2016; and

k.	WHEREAS, the Pinole Police Department does not have the
necessary sworn and non-sworn community preservation staff to adequately
address crime and to provide consistent proactive community policing necessary
to address crime; and

l.	WHEREAS, Pinole Police operations have relied on seeking and
obtaining grant funds from the State and Federal government including the
COPS More Grants and the COPS Fast Grants in order to maintain sworn
staffing levels;

m.	WHEREAS, these COPS grants will expire in two years; and

n.	WHEREAS, the City has had to rely on a federal SAFER grant to
augment staffing in the fire department; and

o.	WHEREAS, the City has had to “brown out" Pinole Fire Station 74 in
Pinole Valley due to funding constraints; and

p.	WHEREAS, funding constraints have impaired the City’s ability to
maintain public infrastructure facilities such as roadways, storm drains and other
water control and discharge infrastructure in a first class manner, resulting in
deferred or delayed maintenance; and

q.	WHEREAS, the cost of delaying such necessary maintenance will
result in future maintenance costs that are exponentially greater than they are
today or will be in the near future; and

10

r.	WHEREAS, funding constraints have severely affected Pinole
recreation services, including the Tiny Tots program, the Youth Center, the
Senior Center, the Swim Center, Park maintenance and Cable Television
programs; and

s.	WHEREAS, the Council approved increases in fees for recreational
services for City to ensure that the fee amounts fully recaptured the cost of
providing the services; however, the City cannot, charge a fee for all services that
it provides; and

t.	WHEREAS, a one-half of one percent transaction and use tax (“sales
tax”) would generate approximately $1,600,000 per year. That revenue would
minimize the likelihood of a General Fund deficit and would allow to the City to
maintain levels of public safety, recreation, parks, streets and other City services;
and

u.	WHEREAS, the proposed sales tax would be a significant source of
revenue for the City at a time when the State’s efforts to balance its budget
increasingly involve redirecting funds from local governments; and

v.	WHEREAS, the absence of additional General Fund revenue will
prevent the City from investing in and building a reserve fund; and

w.	WHEREAS, Government Code sections 53723 and 53724 require
that a general tax be proposed only upon approval by two-thirds of the City
Council; and

x.	WHEREAS, Government Code sections 53723 and California
Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2(b) require a majority vote (fifty percent plus
one) of the voters voting in the election for the extension of general taxes; and

y.	WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2(b)
requires that the election for the extension of general taxes must be consolidated
with a city’s general municipal election for members of the City Council; and

z.	WHEREAS, November 4, 2014 is the date of the City’s regular
municipal election.

Section 2. Amendment of Code. Chapter 3.30 “Transactions and Use Tax”
shall be added to Title 3 of the Pinole Municipal Code and shall read as follows:

“Chapter 3.30
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX



Section 3.30.010 Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the City of Pinole Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The City of Pinole hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3.30.020 Operative Date.

"Operative date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3.30.030 Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the
City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize
the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time,
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under
the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 3.30.040 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation
of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have

12

contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 3.30.050 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the City at the rate of one-half of one percent
(0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

Section 3.30.060 Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered
by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier
for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales
shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated
shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3.30.070 Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

Section 3.30.080. Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.30.090 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of
Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

13

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury,
or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to
the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of
the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3.30.100 Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

Section 3.30.110 Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as

14

common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

15

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City
or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place
of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the
retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.30.120 Amendments to State Law.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 3.30.130 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or

16

against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 3.30.140 Refunds and credits; suits and legal proceedings.

A.	Refunds of and credits for any tax paid pursuant to this Chapter may be made
only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	Suits and proceedings for the recovery of any amount alleged to have been
erroneously or illegally determined or collected pursuant to this Chapter may be
maintained in any court only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. A judgment shall not be
rendered in favor of the plaintiff in any action brought against the State Board of
Equalization to recover any amount paid when the action is brought by or in the
name of an assignee of the person paying the amount or by any person other
than the person who paid the amount.

Section 3.30.150 Annual Review.

Commencing in June 2015, and in June of every year thereafter, as part of the
budget process, the provisions of this chapter shall be reviewed and a separate
report made to the Council. The report shall contain a summary of the amounts
realized, the necessity of the tax and the adequacy of the tax rate. A public
hearing shall be held on the report and the Council shall determine whether or
not changes to the tax should be made. The tax proceeds shall be subject to the
same independent annual audit requirements as other general fund revenue. .

Section 3.30.160 Relationship with Transactions and Use Tax Imposed by
Chapter 3.28.

The tax imposed by this chapter shall be in addition to the tax imposed by
Chapter 3.28 of the Pinole Municipal Code.

Section 3.28.170 Amendment of This Chapter.

The following amendments to this chapter must be approved by the voters of the
City of Pinole: increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating
the tax such that a tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions
and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs
automatically by operation of Section 3.30.120); or extending the tax. The City
Council may otherwise amend this ordinance without submitting the amendment
to the voters for approval.

Section 3. Use of Tax Revenue. The tax approved by this ordinance is a
general tax. The City may use the revenue from the tax for any general
governmental purpose, including without limitation police, fire safety, paramedics,
streets, parks and recreation services.

17

Section 4. Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
The voters of the City of Pinole hereby declare that they would have adopted
each and every provision of this ordinance regardless of the invalidity of any
other provision.

Section 5. Codification. Upon adoption of this ordinance pursuant to the
voter approval referenced in Section 2, the City Clerk, in consultation with the
City Attorney, is hereby authorized and directed to codify this ordinance in the
Pinole Municipal Code.

Section 6. Effective Date. If this ordinance is approved by a majority of
the voters voting on the issue at the November 4, 2014 election, pursuant to
Elections Code Section 9217, this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days
after the Council declares the results of the election, and the tax shall become
operative on the “operative date,” as defined in this ordinance.

Section 7. Publication. The Clerk of the City of Pinole is hereby directed
to cause the following summary of the ordinance to be published by one (1)
insertion in the West County Times, a newspaper of general circulation published
and circulated in the City of Pinole:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance adopts a
half-cent transactions and use tax on the sale or consumption of
tangible personal property within the City of Pinole.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Pinole on
___________,	2014	by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

APPROVED by the following vote of the Voters of the City of Pinole on
November 4, 2014:

AYES:

NOES:

Timothy Banuelos, Mayor

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

ATTEST:

Benjamin T. Reyes II, City Attorney Patricia Athenour, City Clerk

19

EXHIBIT B TO RESOLUTION 2014-34

TO BE INCLUDED IN THE VOTER PAMPHLET

1.	The proposed transactions and use tax ordinance shall be submitted to the
voters on the ballot in the form of the following question:

MEASURE : APPROVAL OF LOCAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX		
City of Pinole Local Sales Tax: Shall an ordinance be adopted enacting a local half-cent transaction and use (sales) tax to maintain essential police and fire services, to prevent the reduction in maintenance of City parks and streets, and to prevent the reduction of youth, family and senior recreational services, subject to annual external audit and review?	YES	
	NO	

The full text of the proposed Ordinance shall be available for review at the
Office of the City Clerk, City of Pinole, 2131 Pear Street, Pinole, CA 94564.
The full text of the proposed Ordinance will also be available on the City of
Pinole website at www.ci.pinole.ca.us.

20