Ballot question

The question on the ballot appeared as:[2]

To maintain the City's fire suppression capabilities and its program to
replace fire trucks and equipment on a schedule that keeps response
times low, with positive effects on property owner insurance rates, shall
the expiring Fire Equipment Tax Levy be extended for 10 years and the
rate increased to $22 per parcel with all revenue restricted to those local
purposes? (quote)

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure 0:[i]

The City Council of the City of Fort Bragg placed Measure O on the
November 4, 2014 ballot to ask voters of the City of Fort Bragg (“City”) to
approve the continuation of the existing Fire Equipment Acquisition Tax.
Measure O would authorize the tax for another 10 years at the rate of $22
per parcel annually for all types of property located in the City (“Tax”).

The Fire Equipment Acquisition Tax was originally approved by the voters
in 1983 and was most recently extended for an additional ten (10) years in
2005. It is currently set to expire in June 2015, unless the voters approve
another extension. Use of the proceeds of the Tax is restricted to
acquiring fire suppression equipment for use by the Fire Department.
According to reports prepared by the Fire Department, the Fire Equipment
Acquisition Tax has made it possible for the Fire Department to maintain a
regular schedule of fire vehicles/apparatus replacement, which in turn has
allowed it to improve response times.

If voters approved Measure O, the Tax would be extended for an
additional 10 years, until June 30, 2025. The rate would be increased from
$18 to $22. Proceeds of the Tax would be placed into a separate fund or
account and could be used only for the acquisition of fire suppression
equipment for use by the Fire Department. The City Treasurer would be
required to file a report with the City Council at least annually that states
the amount of funds collected by the Tax, the amount expended, and the
status of the acquisition of fire suppression equipment. Funds from the
Tax collected in one year but unused would be available in the
subsequent year for acquisition of fire suppression equipment. The City
would be authorized to continue the practice of having the Tax collected
by Mendocino County on the property tax bill. If collected in that manner,
the County would remit the funds collected to the City.

Because the use of Measure O funds is legally restricted to the acquisition
of fire suppression equipment for the use of the City’s Fire Department,
the tax is considered a “special tax.” Under applicable provisions of the
California Constitution, Measure O would only be approved if two-thirds of
the voters voting on the question vote “Yes.”

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve an extension of the Fire Equipment
Acquisition Tax for 10 years at the rate of $22 per parcel of real property
in the City, with annual review and reporting by the City Treasurer. A “No”

vote is a vote against the tax. Measure O would be approved if it received
at least a two-third’s majority of “Yes” votes[3]

—Jason Rosenberg, acting city attorney of Fort Braggm