COUNTY OF SONOMA
CONSOLIDATED GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 4, 2014

COMPOSITE FACSIMILE
BALLOT

AND

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

Compiled and Distributed by Sonoma County Registrar of Voters

Local Measures	
E - Napa Valley Community College District, Bond (55% vote required)	10, 64-68
H - Sonoma County Junior College District, Bond (55% vote required)	10, 69-73
I - City of Santa Rosa High School District, Bond (55% vote required)	10, 74-77
J - Cinnabar School District, Bond (55% vote required)	10, 78-80
K- Oak Grove Union School District, Bond (55% vote required)	10, 81-83
L - City of Santa Rosa Elementary School District, Bond (55% vote required)	10, 84-87
M - Sonoma County Library Improvement Act (Two-thirds vote required)	11, 88-92
N - City of Santa Rosa, Utility User Tax (Majority vote required)	11, 93-94
0 - City of Cloverdale, Utility User Tax	11, 95
(Majority vote required)	
P - City of Healdsburg, Water Fluoridation (Majority vote required)	11, 96, 97
Q - City of Petaluma, Transactions, and Use Tax (Majority vote required)	11,98, 99
R - City of Sebastopol, Utility User Tax Amendment (Majority vote required)	11,100
S - Monte Rio Fire Protection District, Special Tax (Two-thirds vote required)	11, 101-103

FACSIMILE COMPOSITE BALLOT
CONSOLIDATED GENERAL ELECTION - NOVEMBER 4,2014

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		■
COUNTY		
Library Improvement Act: Shall the Sonoma iwr County Library Improvement Act be irnple- lvl mented by imposing a one-eighth cent (0.125%) sales tax for ten years to restore and enhance library hours and services to benefit chiidre niors and all residents of the County; with an annual to be conducted to ensure that funds are spent as man by the voters; and an increase in spending limit to alioi of the revenue?	Yes	1.7" '1
	No	r*1 i
	i, se- audit dated vuse	(
CITY		1
CITY OF SANTA ROSA		m
UUT MODERNIZATION AND FAIRNESS m MEASURE Shall the Utility Users Tax Ordinance 111 (UUT) be amended to: reduce the tax rate from 5% to 4.5%; exempt low income users; mod- ernize the ordinance to Include wireless and other tech gies to treat taxpayers the same regardless of technc and help maintain essential city services, with all money ing local for services and facilities in Santa Rosa?	Yes	r ~i
	No	E=
	nolo-  logy;  stay-	
CITY OF CLOVERDALE		P
Temporary City of Cloverdale Local Control/ O Fiscal Stability Measure. To create local u funding for local needs; maintain Cloverdale's independent, local Police Department; prevent further cuts to police officers, 911 response, violent/pro crimes investigation; maintain storm drains, pothole/j repair, local business support, and other City services; the City of Cloverdale establish a utility user tax at a 3°/ for eight years with low-income senior exemptions, citi oversight, annual independent audits and no mone Sacramento?	Yes	1=
	No	FT
	party treet shall rate :ens’ y for	I
CITY OFHEALDSBURG		
p Shall the City of Healdsburg continue to fluori- ~ date its water?	Yes	}	1
	No	E=
		

49-D032 TURN CARD OVER	D

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
CITY		us
CITY OF PETALUMA		§§
Shall the BETTER ROADS SAFER 0 PETALUMA MEASURE, a general transac- v* tions and use tax of 1%, with all proceeds placed in the Petaluma General Fu nd for oov-	Yes	I*"1 1
	No	1=1
ernmenta! purposes such as street and sidewalk mainte- nance and repair, traffic improvements like the Rainier Crosstown Connector/lnterchange, flood protection, storm drainage, vehicle replacement, restoring public safety posi- tions, and public facilities improvements, among others, with local control of tax proceeds, and Independent review and reporting on expenditures, be adopted?		1
CITY OF SEBASTOPOL		IB
Shall file City of Sebastopol amend the current D Utility User Tax ordinance by: reducing the tax rv from 4% to 3.75%; continuing the tax on gas and electricity which exempts low income oer-	Yes	i=
	No	i=
sons; adding telecommunications! video and garbage ser- vices; to maintain essential general fund City services such as police and fire, improving roads, sewers, parks, bicycle/ pedestrian infrastructure; requiring an independent audit; and no. rate increase without voter approval; and terminating the tax in ten years?		i
DISTRICT		Gf
MONTE RIO FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT		1
Shall Ordinance No. 2014/15-1 of the Monte e Rio Ffre Protection District authorizing the a District to impose and levy a special tax having flat raffia nf SfiO for sinale familv residential	Yes	t=
	No	i=
properties, $39 for campsites, mobile home spaces, multi- family residential units and vacant parcels and $1 per acre for timberland and maximum rates from $.04 to $.09 per square foot for lodging, commercial and industrial properties and in- creasing the Districts appropriations limit be approved?		I
		|

49-D070 TURN CARD OVER	D

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

{whichever is applicable to your ballot}

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF SANTA ROSA
MEASURE N

UUT MODERNIZATION AND FAIRNESS MEASURE

N Shall the Utility Users Tax Ordinance (UUT) be amended
to: reduce the tax rate from 5% to 4.5%; exempt low
Income users; modernize the ordinance to include
wireless and other technologies to treat taxpayers the same
regardless of technology; and help maintain essential city
services, with all money staying local for services and facilities in
Santa Rosa?

CITY ATTORNEYS IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

This measure is proposed by the Santa Rosa City Council to update the City's
existing Utility Users Tax ('‘UUT’} ordinance to be consistent with current practice
and technology.

The UUT is levied on utility users in the City. The City has imposed the UUT on tele-
phone and other utility services since 1970. The proceeds of the UUT can only be
spent on City services and cannot be taken away by the State. UUT revenues are
paid into the City's general fund to pay for such services as police and fire protection,
recreational programs, maintenance of City infrastructure such as streets and
parks, and senior programs.

The City's UUT, like those of most California cities, referred to federal law to describe
telephone services. These definitions have changed and telephone technology
has changed significantly. The measure would update the UUT to modernize its
language and to treat all technologies equally so every phone customer is treated
fairly, whether they use the latest technology or older phone services.

This measure would also lower the current tax rate from 5% to 4.5% and retains the
current $1,000 per utility cap on the amount of the tax and the ability to prepay the
maximum fax. The measure also retains current exemptions for low income ser-
vices for gas and electricity.

This measure would not apply to charges for internet access, internet content or
downloads of music, video and other information.

Voter approval would be required for any increase in the rate or the scope of ser-
vices subject to the UUT. The Council has the ability to lower the rate without voter
approval. The proposed measure requires approval of a majority of voters.

A "yes” vote is a vote in favor of adopting the updated UUT. A "no” vote will reject
the proposed amendments and continue the UUT in its present form and at the
present rate of 5%.

s/ Caroline L. Fowler
City Attorney
City of Santa Rosa

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the Ordinance. If you desire a copy
of the ordinance, please call the City Clerk at (707) 543-3015 and a copy will be
mailed to you at no cost.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Vote Yes on Measure N to preserve essentia! services and quality of life in the City
of Santa Rosa.

Since 1970, the City of Santa Rosa has used its Utility Users Tax (UUT) on electric-
ity, gas, cable TV, and telephone to help pay for essential services such as parks,
street repair, police and fire services. Without a Yes vote on Measure N the City is
at risk of losing $1.6 million in current revenue.

Measure N is not a new tax. Measure N would modernize the City’s existing UUT
on telephone so that ail taxpayers are treated the same regardless of the communi-
cations technology used. Accordingly, the City’s UUT on teiephone would apply in
the same manner whether the service is provided by iandline, wirelessly, or over a
broadband system like the internet. However Measure N would not impose a tax on
internet access, or on digital downloads like music, games, or ringtones.

The Measure also lowers the current UUT rate for all utilities by 10%, from a 5% tax
rate to 4.5%, By treating all teiephone users the same, regardless of technology, it
is projected that Measure N will generate the same, or slightly more tax revenue—
using a lower percentage, spread across all users of teiephone services. If revenue
is higher than projected the ordinance allows the City to lower, but not increase, the
rate further without a new ballot measure. Existing exemptions to the gas and elec-
tricity UUT for PG&E CARE recipients will remain in place.

A ’Yes” vote on Measure N will allow Santa Rosa to continue to provide programs
and services for residents that make Santa Rosa a great place to live, work and
play. Without it, the high quality of services Santa Rosa residents enjoy will be in
jeopardy.

Please help protect our existing revenue - Vote Yes on Measure N.

SANTA ROSA CITY COUNCIL
s / Scott P. Bartley, Mayor

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Don’t be misled by the rate reduction. That's just the first step of a two-step process.
Step one of course is to lower the rate as an enticement to lure voters into approv-
ing the addition of cell phones. Step two comes a couple years later when the city
seeks to jack the rate back up to its previous (or higher) level complaining that the
rate needs to be'‘adjusted" to protect revenues, or maintain parity with neighboring
cities, or whatever other reason city officials think will resonate with voters at the
time.

The utility users tax has been problematic for years. Because the city relies exclu-
sively on private utility companies to enforce and collect the tax, many users are
routinely overcharged while others who aren’t even subject to the fax (because
they live outside the incorporated city limits) have been assessed the tax when
they shouldn’t have been.

The city doesn’t have the records or access to the utility company records neces-
sary to monitor collection efforts and has proven unsympathetic to users seeking
refunds of wrongly collected taxes. Now, city officials want to add your cell phone to
the tax base while leaving collection of the tax to your cell phone provider.

Don’t contribute to the problem. Vote No on N.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION
s/ Dan Drummond, Executive Director

Sonoma County

93

9565

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your baiiot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

Measure N is a dysfunctional city council's response to a serious problem. After
more than a year of study, a special finance committee of the city council con-
cluded voters are not smart enough to grasp the unintended consequences cre-
ated by an earlier voter approved sales tax. Instead, the council wants to add cell
phones to the list of other services already subject to the city’s little known utility
users tax (UUT).

In 2004, voters approved Measure 0, which contains a "baseline" funding provi-
sion. That provision says public safety funding may never be less than the level it
was in 2004. Normally, that might be OK. But as budgets have been cut during the
recession, the baseline remains fixed at 2004 levels resulting in disproportionate
shares of the city budget being reallocated to preserve the baseline at the expense
of parks, roads, transit and every other local government service. The fix is easy -
change the baseline from a fixed figure to a percentage. That of course requires
voter approval, but our city council doesn’t think we’re smart enough to understand
the issue.

Instead of addressing the real problem, our council wants to tinker with the UUT.
Because collection of the tax is left to private utility providers, the UUT has proven
difficult to administer with many users being overcharged, sometimes for years.
Costly lawsuits have resulted as some users have been forced to sue the city to re-
cover amounts wrongly collected. State privacy laws prohibit the utility from shar-
ing user information with the city leaving the collection of the tax entirely to private
companies. That's no way to run a railroad.

Tell city council we won't be party to their dysfunction. Tell them to do the job they
were elected to do. Vote No on N.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION

si Dan Drummond, Executive Director si Timothy J, Hannan, Vice President

si Bryant Moynihan, Director

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

Measure N is not a reaction to the Measure O baseiine funding provisions as the
opposition suggests and is not an attempt to raise additional revenue but to prevent
further erosion of one of the City’s key revenue streams. Measure N addresses
changes in federal regulations that apply to the way the telephone UUT is collected,
it also applies the tax to all telecommunication technologies, including landlines,
wireless technologies and internet-based telecommunication technologies, so that
all taxpayers are treated fairly. If these changes are not made, the City will lose
$1.6 million in annual general fund revenue.

The City’s Utility Users Tax (UUT) which has existed since the 1970s generates $9
million in general fund revenue annually. Of that amount, $1.6 million comes from
the telephone UUT. This revenue, as with all general fund revenue, is vital to main-
tain park operations, street repair and public safety services.

Cities throughout California have addressed these changes in telecommunication
regulations by modernizing their UUT ordinances. Based on a 2012 survey, 155
cities in California have a UUT, with an average rate of 5.5%. Measure N would
lower the rate to 4.5%. Of those cities, 79% had a modern UUT ordinance with a tax
on wireless communications.

Measure N will preserve much needed general fund revenue and protect vital gen-
eral fund services. Additional information is available atwww.srcity.org/MeasureN.
Please vote Yes on Measure N.

SANTA ROSA CITY COUNCIL
si Scott P. Bartley, Mayor

si Steve Rabinowitsh
Former Santa Rosa City Counciimember

st Janet Condron	si	William	Arnone

Former Santa Rosa City Mayor Business Owner

■ Sonoma County

94

9565