City of Sebastopol Utility Users Tax
Update and Revision, Measure R
(November 2014)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The question on the ballot;!1]

// Shall the City of Sebastopol amend the current Utility User Tax ordinance by:

reducing the tax from 4% to 3.75%; continuing the tax on gas and electricity which
exempts low income persons; adding telecommunications, video and garbage
services; to maintain essential general fund City services such as police and fire,
improving roads, sewers, parks, bicycle/pedestrian infrastructure; requiring an
independent audit; and no rate increase without voter approval; and terminating the
tax in ten years?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure R by the office of the city

attorney;]1]

A Utility Users’ Tax (“UUT”) is a tax levied on each user of a utility within a city’s
boundaries. Since 2008 the City of Sebastopol has collected a Utility Users’ Tax on
the use of natural gas and electricity, generating revenue for the City of
approximately $330,000 per year. That UUT will expire on January 1, 2015.

Measure R would update the existing UUT ordinance to continue the tax on gas and
electricity, but reduce the tax rate from its current 4%, to 3.75%, and would add
telecommunications, video, and garbage services. It would also retain the existing
State of California “CARE” program, for exemption of low-income (or other
persons in qualifying public assistance programs) from the gas and electricity UUT.
Measure R will not tax access to the internet or internet purchases and downloads
such as books, music, games, or similar digital products.

The revenues from the City’s current UUT are used exclusively within the City for
general governmental services, including police and fire protection, maintenance
and repair of public streets, sewers, parks, bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure, and
other general services. It is estimated that Measure R would generate revenue of
approximately $586,000 per year to continue and enhance the funding of these
essential services.

The proposed UUT ordinance requires an annual independent audit to insure that
taxes have been properly applied and collected. There can be no change to the tax
rate, or the UUT ordinance, without voter approval.

A “yes” vote on Measure R is in favor of adopting the modernized, updated, and
expanded UUT ordinance summarized above, and a tax decrease for gas and
electricity UUT. A “no” vote is against adopting the ordinance. A majority of “yes”
votes is required for the ordinance to be enacted. The tax would be effective upon
certification of voter approval of Measure R by the City Council and would
automatically end 10 years after such certification.!2]

Larry McLaughlin, Sebastopol City Attorney111