City of Newman Urban Growth
Boundary, Measure Z (November 2014)

| Text of measure

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure Zmw

Under this proposed ordinance, the City’s General Plan would be amended and an
“Urban Growth Boundary” (UGB) would be established around the City of
Newman, coterminous with the City’s Sphere of Influence line established by the
Local Agency Formation Commission for the City as it exists as of January 1, 2014.

This ordinance prohibits most urbanized uses of land, as defined in the ordinance,
from being approved by the City for land outside of the UGB until December 31,

2040. However, construction of public potable water facilities, certain roadways,
public schools, public parks and other government facilities outside the UGB would
be allowed. The ordinance does not apply to any project which has received a
vested right to develop on the effective date of the ordinance.

Generally, in order to amend or repeal this ordinance, or the Urban Growth
Boundary, before December 31, 2040, a majority vote of the City’s voters is
required. However, the City Council may amend the UGB following at least one
public hearing, and after compliance with the California Environmental Quality
Act, as follows:

(1)	For non-residential uses, if it deems it to be in the public interest provided the
amended boundary is adjacent to the UGB and an equal or greater amount of land is
removed from the existing Sphere of Influence /UGB.

(2)	To comply with the General Plan Goal LU-6 - Provide adequate land for and
promote development of employment uses that create high quality jobs and enhance
the economy but only after making certain findings as set forth in the ordinance.

(3)	To comply with State law regarding the provisions of housing for all economic
segments of the community but only after making certain findings as set forth in the
ordinance.

The UGB could also be amended by the City Council without a vote of the City’s
voters, if the modification to the boundary is required to avoid an unconstitutional
taking of a landowner’s property, with the boundary amended only to the minimum
extent necessary to avoid such taking.!2]

—Phaedra A. Norton, Newman City Attorney™

Argument in Favor of Measure Z

Our wonderful City is known throughout the region for its quaint Downtown, the Fall Festival, and lively
Westside Theatre. But did you know our community has received five planning related awards over the past
three years. These regional and State awards honored our Downtown Revitalization efforts, our plaza, an
affordable housing project and a newly adopted non-motorized transportation plan. Why is this important and
how is it relevant to this measure?

All great communities start with a bold Vision and a roadmap on how to reach this goal. Newman is no
exception. The awards mentioned earlier are evidence of this Vision and the planning documents are the
roadmap. The Newman Save Open-space and Agricultural Resources (Newman SOAR) measure is recognition
of our connection with the surrounding agricultural resources and its significance in both our past and with our
future.

Passage of Newman SOAR will limit the City's future growth to the area contained within the current General
Plan boundaries until the year 2040. By casting an affirmative vote for Measure Z, you are supporting the
City's current General Plan policies that encourage efficient growth patterns and protect the City's quality of
life by concentrating future development within those General Plan boundaries (Sphere of Influence). An
affirmative vote tells future Councils that the community wants growth that fosters and protects the character
of the City while encouraging economic development in accordance with the City's unique local conditions.

Newman SOAR has been modeled after successful measures in Ventura County. If approved by Newman
citizens, it will serve as a cornerstone policy that designates the geographic limits of long term urban
development while allowing some flexibility within those limits to respond to the City's changing needs over
time. We hope you will join us and VOTE YES on MEASURE Z.

The undersigned proponents of the primary argument in favor of Ballot Measure Z at the General Municipal
Election for the City of Newman to be held on November 4, 2014, hereby state that such argument is true
and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

CouQfil Member Nicholas Candea

I .. . - I__n _ I_+ -» ns\/k

/Coin^il Member Roberta Davis

Date



i - ii -14

Council Member Donald Hutchins

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-5 - CS

(2014 City Council Sponsored Measure_)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NEWMAN
ADDING TITLE 5, CHAPTER 29 TO THE NEWMAN MUNICIPAL CODE
TO BE KNOWN AS THE “URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY ORDINANCE”

SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS

The City Council of the City of Newman does hereby ordain as follows:

Part 1

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT: Article 1 is added to Chapter 29 of Title 5 of the Newman Municipal
Code to read as follows:

Article 1. URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY
Section 5.29.101.	Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the Newman Save Open-space and Agricultural Resources, or Newman
SOAR, ordinance.

Section 5.29.102.	Purpose and Findings.

A.	Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to create the City of Newman (City) Urban
Growth Boundary (Newman UGB). The Newman UGB has the following objectives:

1.	To encourage efficient growth patterns and protect the City’s quality of life by
concentrating future development within the adopted Sphere of Influence;

2.	To promote on lands outside the Newman UGB ongoing agricultural and other
natural resource and open space uses such as preservation of natural resources, public and private
outdoor recreation, uses that foster public health and safety, and productive investment for
farming enterprises;

3.	To manage the City’s growth in a manner that fosters and protects the character
of the City while encouraging appropriate economic development in accordance with the City’s
unique local conditions and General Plan;

4.	To allow the City to continue to meet its reasonable housing needs for all
economic segments of the population by directing the development of housing into areas where
services and infrastructure are more efficiently available; and

5.	To promote stability in long term planning for the City by establishing a
cornerstone policy within the General Plan designating the geographic limits of long term urban
development and allowing sufficient flexibility within those limits to respond to the City’s
changing needs over time.

B.	Findings.

1.	The protection of existing agricultural, open space, watershed and other lands

surrounding the City is of critical importance to present and future residents of the City.
Agriculture has been and remains a major contributor to the economy of the City and County of
Stanislaus, directly and indirectly creating employment for many people and generating
substantial revenues for the City and the County of Stanislaus.

2.	In particular, the City and surrounding area, with its alluvial plain topography,
excellent climate and prime agricultural soils, is located in the heart of one of the finest
agricultural regions in the world. Vegetable, nut and dairy production from the County of
Stanislaus and adjacent to the City continue to enhance the City’s, and County’s, economy and
reputation.

3.	Continued urban encroachment into agricultural, open space or watershed areas
may impair agriculture and threaten the public health, safety and welfare by causing increased
traffic congestion, associated air pollution, not only for the City but for its jurisdictional
neighbors. Such urban encroachment may eventually result in both the unnecessary, expensive
extension of public services and facilities and inevitable conflicts between urban, agricultural and
open space uses.

4.	The unique character of the City and quality of life of City residents depend on
the protection of a substantial amount of open space, rural and agricultural lands particularly
outside of City’s Sphere of Influence. The protection of such lands not only ensures the continued
viability of agriculture, but also protects the available water supply to surrounding communities
and contributes to the protection of wildlife, environmentally sensitive areas, and irreplaceable
natural resources. As importantly, adopting a UGB around the City would promote the formation
and continuation of a cohesive community by defining the boundaries and by helping to prevent
urban sprawl. Such an UGB would promote efficient municipal services and facilities by
confining urban development to defined development areas.

5.	This measure ensures that the important Goals and Policies of the General Plan
are inviolable against transitory short-term political decisions and that agricultural, watershed and
open space lands are not prematurely or unnecessarily converted to other non-agricultural or non-
open space uses without public debate and a vote of the people. Accordingly, the ordinance
requires that until December 31, 2040, the City of Newman shall restrict the provision of urban
services, or creation of urban uses, other than in certain circumstances and according to specific
procedures set forth in this measure, within the Newman UGB created by this ordinance using the
location of the Sphere of Influence Line established by the Local Agency Formation Commission
as a reference for locating the Newman UGB. The Newman UGB line shall be coterminous with
the Sphere of Influence line established by the Local Agency Formation Commission for the City,
as it exists as of January 1, 2014.

6.	Although established in the same location as the Sphere of Influence line as it
exists as of January 1, 2014, the Newman UGB is not intended to and shall in no way inhibit the
Local Agency Formation Commission from changing or altering the Sphere of Influence line in
accordance with state law. The two lines, although coincidentally coterminous as of one point in
time are independent one from the other in legal significance and purpose. While the Sphere of
Influence line may be altered by the Local Agency Formation Commission in accordance with the
provisions of state law, the Newman UGB is a local land use policy of the City and shall not be
changed except as herein provided.

Section 5.29.103. General Plan Amendment: Changes in Boundary

This ordinance hereby amends the Newman General Plan by adding the following as Chapter 9 to the

Community Design Element of the General Plan:

NEWMAN CITY URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY

Introduction.

The electorate of the City of Newman (City) has adopted a UGB line denominated the City of
Newman UGB (Newman UGB). Its purpose, principals, implementation procedures, and methodologies
for amendment are set forth in this General Plan Amendment.

A.	Purpose.

1.	The City and surrounding area, with its alluvial plain topography, excellent
climate and prime agricultural soils, is located in the heart of one of the finest agricultural regions
in the world. Vegetable, nut, and dairy production from the County of Stanislaus and adjacent to
the City continue to enhance the City’s, and County’s, economy and reputation.

2.	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the preservation of agricultural
production, open space, and protection of environmentally sensitive habitat are inviolable against
transitory short-term political decisions and that agricultural, viewshed, watershed, and open
space lands are not prematurely or unnecessarily converted to other non-agricultural or non-open
space uses without public debate and a vote of the people.

3.	As importantly, limiting urban sprawl through the use of an UGB enhances the
sense of community, allows for development unique to the City of Newman and promotes the
efficient use of the City’s infrastructure.

B.	Principals.

1.	Continued urban encroachment into open space, viewshed, watershed and
agricultural areas negatively impacts sensitive environmental areas, intrudes on open space
irrevocably changing its utility, diminishes the quality of life and threatens the public health,
safety and welfare by causing increased traffic congestion, associated air pollution, and causing
potentially serious water problems, such as pollution, depletion, and sedimentation of available
water resources not only for the City of Newman but for its jurisdictional neighbors. Such urban
encroachment may eventually result in both the unnecessary, expensive extension of public
services and facilities and inevitable conflicts between urban and Open Space/ Agricultural uses.

2.	The unique character of the City, and quality of life of City residents, depends on
the protection of a substantial amount of open space, viewshed, and watershed. The protection of
such lands through the implementation of this measure not only ensures the continued viability of
agriculture, but also protects the available water supply and contributes to flood control and the
protection of wildlife, environmentally sensitive areas, and irreplaceable natural resources.

C.	Implementation.

1. The City hereby establishes the Newman Urban Growth Boundary (Newman
UGB). The Newman UGB is established coterminous with the Sphere of Influence line
established by the Local Agency Formation Commission for the City, as it exists as of January 1,
2014.

2. Until December 31, 2040, the City shall restrict urban services (except temporary
mutual assistance with other jurisdictions) and urbanized uses of land to within the Newman
UGB, except as provided herein and except for the purpose of completing roadways designated in
the circulation element of the Newman General Plan as of January 1, 2014, construction of public
potable water facilities, public schools, public parks or other government facilities. Other than the

exceptions provided for herein, upon the effective date of this UGB General Plan amendment, the
City and its departments, boards, commissions, officers and employees shall not grant, or by
inaction allow to be approved by operation of law, any general plan amendment, rezoning,
specific plan, subdivision map, conditional use permit, building permit or any other ministerial or
discretionary entitlement, which is inconsistent with the purposes of this General Plan
amendment, unless in accordance with the Amendment Procedures of Section D of this General
Plan Amendment.

3.	“Urbanized uses of land” shall mean any development which would require the
establishment of new community sewer and/or water systems or the significant expansion of
existing community sewer and/or water systems; or, would result in the creation of residential
densities greater than one primary residential unit per 10 acres in area; or, would result in the
establishment of commercial or industrial uses which are neither agriculturally-related nor related
to the production of mineral resources.

4.	The C ity of Newman LAND USE DESIGNATIONS Map, figure LU3 to the
Land Use Element is amended to reflect the existence of the Newman UGB which is
coterminous with the Sphere of Influence line as it exists as of January 1, 2014.

5.	The Newman UGB may not be amended, altered, revoked or otherwise changed
prior to December 31, 2040, except by vote of the people or by the City Council pursuant to the
procedures set forth in Section D of this General Plan Amendment.

D.	Amendment Procedures.

1. Until December 31, 2040, the foregoing Purposes, Principles and Implementation
provisions of this General Plan amendment, and the Newman UGB may be amended only by a
vote of the people or pursuant to one of the following methods:

a)	The City Council may, by a majority vote, amend the Newman UGB
described herein for non-residential uses if it deems it to be in the public interest,
consistent with the intent of this Ordinance, provided that the amended boundary is
adjacent to the Newman UGB established by this General Plan amendment and an equal
or greater amount of land is removed from the existing Sphere of Influence/UGB. The
result of the action would be a negative or neutral impact on the amount of land within
the UGB. Such amendment may be adopted only if the City Council makes the
following finding:

(i)	The	land	subject	to	the	proposed Newman UGB boundary

amendment is immediately adjacent to existing compatibly developed areas and
the applicant for inclusion of land within the UGB has provided to the City
evidence that the Fire Department, Police Department, and Department of Public
Works with jurisdiction over such land have adequate capacity to accommodate
the proposed development and provide it with adequate public services: or

b)	The City Council, following at least one noticed public hearing for
presentations by an applicant and the public, and after compliance with the California
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”), may amend, by majority vote, the Newman UGB
as described herein to comply with General Plan Goal LU-6 to “Provide adequate land
for and promote development of employment uses that create high quality jobs and
enhance the economy of Newman”. Such amendment may be adopted only if the City
Council makes each of the following findings:

i)	The land subject to the proposed Newman UGB boundary

amendment is immediately adjacent to existing compatibly developed areas and
the applicant for the inclusion of land within the UGB has provided to the City
evidence that the Fire Department, Police Department, and Department of Public
Works with jurisdiction over such land have adequate capacity to accommodate
the proposed development and provide it with adequate public services; and

ii)	That inventory of undeveloped commercial, business park,
and/or industrial designated land within the Newman UGB has reached a level of
less than one hundred (100) acres. At this point, the City would be placed at an
economic disadvantage when trying to recruit existing businesses to expand
and/or attract new businesses to relocate to the City; and

iii)	That it is not reasonably feasible to accommodate the proposed
development by re-designating lands within the Newman UGB due to size, shape
and/or location; or

c)	The City Council, following at least one noticed public hearing for
presentations by an applicant and the public, and after compliance with CEQA, may
amend, by majority vote, the Newman UGB described herein to comply with state law
regarding the provision of housing for all economic segments of the community. The
City Council may amend the Newman UGB as described herein in order to accommodate
lands to be designated for residential uses, provided that no more land may be brought
within the UGB as required for compliance with State law for this purpose. Such
amendment may be adopted only if the City Council makes each of the following
findings:

i)	The land is immediately adjacent to existing compatibly
developed areas and the applicant for the inclusion of land within the Newman
UGB has provided to the City evidence that the Fire Department, Police
Department, Department of Public Works, the Community Services Department,
applicable water and sewer districts, and the School District with jurisdiction
over such land have adequate capacity to accommodate the proposed
development and provide it with adequate public services; and

ii)	That the proposed development will address the highest priority
need identified in the analysis by which the City has determined it is not in
compliance with State law, i.e., low and very low income housing; and

iii)	That there is no existing residentially designated land available
within the Newman UGB to accommodate the proposed development; and

iv)	That it is not reasonably feasible to accommodate the proposed
development by re-designating lands within the Newman UGB; or

d)	The City Council following at least one noticed public hearing for
presentations by an applicant and the public, and after compliance with CEQA, may
amend, by majority vote, the Newman UGB described herein, based on substantial
evidence in the record, if the City Council makes each of the following findings:

i)	Application of the provisions of subsections a, b or c of these
amendment procedures are unworkable and failure to amend the Newman UGB
would constitute an unconstitutional taking of a landowner’s property for which
compensation would be required or would deprive the landowner of a vested
right; and

ii)	The amendment and associated land use designations will allow
additional land uses only to the minimum extent necessary to avoid said
unconstitutional taking of the landowner’s property or to give effect to the vested
right; or

e)	The City Council following at least one noticed public hearing for

presentations by an applicant and the public, and after compliance with CEQA, may
place any amendment to the Newman UGB or the provisions of this ordinance on the
ballot pursuant to the mechanisms provided by State law; or

f)	The General Plan may be reorganized and individual provisions,
including the provisions of this ordinance, may be renumbered or reordered in the course
of ongoing updates of the General Plan in accordance with the requirements of State law.

Section 5.29.104.	Exemptions.

The provisions of this Article do not apply to any roadways designated in the circulation element of the
Newman General Plan as of January 1, 2014, construction of public potable water facilities, public
schools, public parks or other government facilities, nor to any development project that has obtained as
of the effective date of this ordinance a vested right pursuant to State or local law.

Section 5.29.105.	Insertion Date.

A.	Upon the effective date of this ordinance, the General Plan is effectively amended to
incorporate the terms of this ordinance; except, that if the four amendments of the mandatory elements of
the General Plan permitted by State law for any given calendar year have already been utilized in 2014,
prior to the effective date of this ordinance, this General Plan amendment shall be deemed inserted into
the City’s General Plan on January 1, 2015.

B.	The City’s General Plan in effect when the ordinance was adopted and that General Plan
as amended by this measure, comprise an integrated, internally consistent and compatible statement of
policies for the City. In order to ensure that the City’s General Plan remains an integrated, internally
consistent and compatible statement of policies for the City, as required by state law, and to ensure that
the actions of the voters in enacting this ordinance are given effect, any provision of the General Plan that
is adopted between the City Council submittal date to be placed on the ballot and the date that this
ordinance is deemed inserted into the General Plan, shall, to the extent that such interim-enacted provision
is inconsistent with the General Plan provisions adopted by Section 5.29.103 of this ordinance, that
interim-enacted provision shall be amended as soon as possible and in the manner and time required by
State law to ensure consistency between the provisions adopted by this ordinance and other elements of
the City’s General Plan. In the alternative, such interim-enacted inconsistent provision shall be
disregarded and of no validity or effect.

Section 5.29.106. Severability.

This ordinance shall be interpreted so as to be consistent with all federal and State laws, rules, and
regulations. If any section, sub-section, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion of this ordinance is held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The voters hereby declare that this
ordinance, and each section, sub-section, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion thereof would have
been adopted or passed even if one or more sections, sub-sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, parts, or
portions are declared invalid or unconstitutional. If any provision of this ordinance is declared invalid as
applied to any person or circumstance, such invalidity shall not affect any application of this ordinance
that can be given effect without the invalid application. This ordinance shall be broadly construed in order
to achieve the purposes stated in this ordinance. It is the intent of the voters that the provisions of this
ordinance shall be interpreted by the City and others in a manner that facilitates the confinement of urban
uses within the City’s UGB thereby protecting agricultural, open space and rural lands, and preventing
urban sprawl.

Section 5.29.107.	Amendment or Repeal.

Except as otherwise provided herein, this ordinance may be amended or repealed only by the voters of the
City at an election held in accordance with State law.

Section 5.29.108.	Competing Measures.

In the event there are competing measures on the same ballot with this measure that purport to address the
same subject matter of this measure, the following rules shall apply: If more than one such measure
passes, both measures shall go into effect except to the extent that particular provisions of one measure
are in direct, irreconcilable conflict with particular provisions of another measure. In that event, as to
those conflicting provisions only, the provisions of the measure which received the most votes shall
prevail.

SECTION 2. ENACTMENT: This ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days after its passage by the
City Council, and following the affirmative vote of a majority of the electors of the City of Newman
voting on the measure. Prior to the expiration of fifteen (15) days from the passage and adoption thereof,
this ordinance shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation printed and published in the
County of Stanislaus, State of California, together with names of the members of the City Council voting
for and against the same.

Introduced at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Newman held on the 27th day
of May, 2014 by Council Member Hutchins and adopted at a regular meeting of said City Council held
on the 10th day of June, 2014 by the following vote:

AYES

NOES

NOT PARTICIPATING
ABSENT

Candea, Davis, Hutchins, Martina and Mayor Katen.
None.

None.

Signed and approved this 10

ATTEST:



Mike Maier, Deputy City Clerk,

City of Newman, County of Stanislaus,
State of California

Exhibit B

M E MORANDUM

TO: City Clerk
FROM: City Attorney
DATE:

SUBJECT: City Attorney’s Impartial Analysis of

Urban Growth Boundary, City Measure

Pursuant to state law, the City Attorney’s Office has reviewed the City Council
sponsored measure proposed for the November 2014 ballot to create an urban growth
boundary, and prepared the following impartial analysis.

CITY ATTORNEY’S ANALYSIS:

Under this proposed ordinance, the City’s General Plan would be amended and an
“Urban Growth Boundary” (UGB) would be established around the City of Newman,
coterminous with the City’s Sphere of Influence line established by the Local Agency
Formation Commission for the City as it exists as of January 1, 2014.

This ordinance prohibits most urbanized uses of land, as defined in the ordinance, from
being approved by the City for land outside of the UGB until December 31,2040.
However, construction of public potable water facilities, certain roadways, public
schools, public parks and other government facilities outside the UGB would be
allowed. The ordinance does not apply to any project which has received a vested right
to develop on the effective date of the ordinance.

Generally, in order to amend or repeal this ordinance, or the Urban Growth Boundary,
before December 31,2040, a majority vote of the City’s voters is required. However, the
City Council may amend the UGB following at least one public hearing, and after
compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act, as follows:

Exhibit B

MEMORANDUM

TO: City Clerk
FROM: City Attorney
DATE:

SUBJECT: Impartial Analysis of Urban Growth Boundary, Measure
PAGE: 2 of 2

(1)	For non-residential uses, if it deems it to be in the public interest provided the
amended boundary is adjacent to the UGB and an equal or greater amount of land is
removed from the existing Sphere of Influence/UGB.

(2)	To comply with the General Plan Goal LU-6 - Provide adequate land for and
promote development of employment uses that create high quality jobs and enhance
the economy but only after making certain findings as set forth in the ordinance.

(3)	To comply with State law regarding the provisions of housing for all economic
segments of the community but only after making certain findings as set forth in the
ordinance.

The UGB could also be amended by the City Council without a vote of the City’s voters,
if the modification to the boundary is required to avoid an unconstitutional taking of a
landowner’s property, with the boundary amended only to the minimum extent
necessary to avoid such taking.

Phaedra A. Norton
Newman City Attorney

PREPARED PURSUANT TO
ELECTIONS CODE SECTION 9280
BY THE NEWMAN CITY ATTORNEY,
PHAEDRA A. NORTON	.

dated: Q(q Zn/V

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS
AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE IF YOU DESIRE
A COPY OF THE ORDINANCE
OR MEASURE, PLEASE
CONTACT THE CITY CLERK
AT (209) 862-3725 AND A
COPY WILL BE MAILED AT
NO COST TO YOU.