YES

NO

A MEASURE A: To preserve qual-
ity education in Novato schools
without increasing taxes and
maintain stable local funding that cannot
be taken by the State to:

• Maintain competitive science, math, engineering
and other programs
• Attract and retain high quality teachers
• Integrate modem instructional technology to
prepare students for future success
Shall Novato Unified School District renew the expiring
parcel tax at the current rate for 8 years, with an
exemption for seniors, independent oversight, and no
money for administrator salaries?

COUNTY COUNSELS IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE A

NOVATO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX RENEWAL TO PRESERVE QUALITY
OF PUBLIC EDUCATION AND SERVICES

This Measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of
Trustees of the Novato Unified School District of the
County of Marin.

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
Novato Unified School District will be authorized to renew
the existing school parcel tax for eight (8) years beginning
in fiscal year 2014-2015. The proceeds of the tax may be
used only for the purposes set forth in the Measure and not
for administrative salaries, and will be subject to oversight
by an independent citizens’ advisory committee appointed
by the Board of Trustees.

Exemptions will be available for individuals who have
attained the age of 65, as set forth in the Measure.

s/STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

NVS-1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote Yes on Measure A: renew local school funding
without raising taxes.

All Measure A funds stay in our Novato schools under
local control—nothing can be taken by the State, and no
funds can be used for administrator salaries.

Your YES vote is critical to protecting quality education in
our Novato schools. Measure A renews funding that is set
to expire and will keep great teachers in our classrooms,
maintain competitive academic programs and make sure
students have the instructional technology they need for
future success.

Measure A will NOT raise your taxes—it will simply
renew existing local school funding that our community
has supported for over 20 years, and the State can’t take
a penny.

Vote YES to protect quality education in Novato
schools:

•	Maintain competitive science, engineering and
math programs and protect the quality of academic
instruction in core subjects

•	Attract and retain high-quality teachers and
maintaining manageable class sizes

•	Provide career and technical training and integrate
modern instructional technology to prepare students
for future success

•	Protect music, arts, library and athletics programs

Fiscal accountability is required:

•	Nothing can be taken by the State

•	No funds can be used for administrator salaries

•	Independent citizens oversight and required annual
reports ensure funds are spent properly

•	Seniors are eligible for an exemption

Since 1992, our community has supported Novato schools
with local funding. This support continues to be essential
to keeping our schools great and protecting student
achievement.

Measure A simply renews existing school funding which is
set to expire, without increasing taxes.

We are all proud of our high quality schools in Novato,
and they help keep our community and our property values
strong.

Join parents, teachers, seniors, business owners and
community members—vote YES on Measure A to keep
Novato schools strong!

s/A. GERALD (JERRY) PETERS
Past President, Novato Chamber of Commerce, Novato
Sanitary District Board
s/TALI SUNDBERG
Former Novato Teacher, 59-Year Novato Resident
s/SYLVIA BARRY
Novato Realtor

s/MARTHA PATSY WHITE
Former President, League of Women Voters, Novato
Citizen of the Year, 2009
s/MARY JANE BURKE
Marin County Superintendent of Schools

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A
WAS SUBMITTED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

Novato Unified School District Protection of Quality
Local Education Measure

RECITALS

Whereas, the Board of Trustees (“Board”) of the Novato
Unified School District (“District”) has established the
goals of improving academic performance and the quality
of education for all children in the District so that they
are prepared for college and may compete for good jobs.
Furthermore, the District aims to enhance local control
of our schools and reduce its dependence on the State of
California for education funding; and
Whereas, by law, all funds from this local funding measure
must be used to support the specified programs in District
schools and cannot be taken away by the State. Strict
accountability, including independent citizen oversight and
annual reports to ensure funds are spent as promised, will
be observed, and no funds will be used for administrators’
salaries.

TERMS

To preserve quality education in Novato schools without
increasing taxes and maintain stable local funding that
cannot be taken by the State to:

•	Maintain competitive science, math, engineering
and other programs

•	Attract and retain high quality teachers

•	Integrate modern instructional technology to
prepare students for future success

Shall Novato Unified School District renew the expiring
school parcel tax at the current rate of $251 per parcel
for 8 years, with an exemption for seniors, independent
oversight, and no money for administrator salaries?

The purpose of the measure is to fund the following specific
types of programs and services:

•	Maintaining competitive science, math and
engineering programs, along with quality core
academic programs such as reading and writing

•	Attracting and retaining qualified and experienced
teachers and school employees

•	Avoiding significant increases in class sizes in all
grades

•	Integrating computers and instructional technology
in all classrooms and libraries to provide a 21st
century education and prepare for rigorous new
state and federal standards

•	Maintaining school library staff and operating
hours

•	Protecting programs and services that prepare
students for college and the 21st century job market

•	Protecting music, arts and athletics programs that
provide a well-rounded education for Novato kids

•	Keeping school counselors

A.	Amount and Basis of Tax

The special tax shall be $251 per Parcel of Taxable Real
Property beginning in July 1, 2015, and continuing for a
period of eight (8) years.

To the extent allowed by law “Parcel of Taxable Real
Property” shall be defined as:

(a)	Any unit of real property in the District that receives
a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes
from the County Tax Collector.

(b)	All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon
which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in
any year shall not be considered a Parcel of Taxable
Real Property for purposes of the special tax in
such year.

(c)	Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under
common ownership, and that constitute one
economic unit, meaning that they have the same
primary purpose as the principal parcel and are
not separate and distinct properties that may be
independently developed or sold, shall comprise a
single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes
of the special tax.

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary
to law, the Board declares and the voters by approving
the Measure concur, that every other section and part of
this definition has independent value, and the Board and
voters would have adopted each other section and part
hereof regardless of every other section or part hereof. If
all sections or parts of this definition are deemed contrary
to law, “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined
as any real property in the District assigned an assessor’s
parcel number.

B.	Exemptions

Under procedures adopted by the District, upon
application or confirmation of a continuing exemption, an
exemption from payment of the special tax may be granted
on any parcel owned by one or more persons who is/are:

1.	Sixty-five (65) years of age or over and occupying
said parcel as a principal residence (“Senior Citizen
Exemption”); or

2.	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a
disability, regardless of age and occupying said
parcel as a principal residence (“SSI Exemption”).

3.	Receiving Social Security Disability Insurance
benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly income
does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal
poverty guidelines issued by the United States
Department of Health and Human Services (“SSDI
Exemption”).

C.	Claim / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters within its
jurisdiction, the County Tax Collector or other appropriate
County tax official shall make all final determinations of
tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision
shall be final and binding. With respect to matters specific
to the levy of the special tax, including the Senior Citizen
Exemption, the SSI Exemption, the SSDI Exemption, the
application of the definition of “Parcel of Taxable Real
Property” to any parcel(s), the legality or validity of the
special tax, or any other disputed matter specific to the
application of the special tax, the decisions of the District
shall be final and binding. The procedures described
herein, and any additional procedures established by
the Board shall be the exclusive claims procedure for
claimants seeking an exemption, refund, reduction, or re-
computation of the special tax. Whether any particular

claim is to be resolved by the District or by the County
shall be determined by the District, in coordination with
the County as necessary.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution and applicable laws,
the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted
periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this
special tax.

E.	Accountability Measures

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special
tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes
identified above.

2.	Annual Reports. The proceeds of the special tax
shall be deposited into an account, which shall be
kept separate and apart from other accounts of the
District, pursuant to the Government Code. No
later than December 31 of each year while the tax
is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with
the Board a report detailing the amount of funds
collected and expended during the prior fiscal
year, and the status of any project authorized to be
funded by this measure. The report may relate to
the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate
annual period, as said officer shall determine, and
may be incorporated into or filed with the annual
budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to
the Board.

3.	Oversight Committee. An oversight committee of
citizens shall be appointed or designated by the
Board to ensure that the special tax proceeds are
spent for their authorized purposes, and to report
annually to the Board and the public regarding the
expenditure of such funds. The Board shall provide
by resolution for the composition, duties, funding,
and other necessary information regarding the
committee’s formation and operation.

F.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal
funding to the District resulting from the adoption of an
education parcel tax. However, if any such funding is
reduced or affected because of the adoption of this local
funding measure, then the Board may reduce the amount
of the special taxes levied as necessary in order to restore
such State or federal funding and/or maximize the District’s
fiscal position for the benefit of the educational program.
As a result, whether directly or indirectly, no funding from
this measure may be taken away by the State or federal
governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this
measure has independent value, and the Board and the
voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless
of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part of the measure
or taxing formula be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining
parts of the measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain
in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

NOVATO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. 10
RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
OF THE NOVATO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
CALLING A MAILED BALLOT ELECTION,
ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE
ELECTION ORDER, AND REQUESTING
CONSOLIDATION WITH OTHER ELECTIONS
OCCURRING ON MAY 6,2014
WHEREAS, the Novato Unified School District
(“District”) is committed to offering a high-quality
educational program to all students in the District; and
WHEREAS, Novato schools have sustained over $50
million in state funding cuts since 2007, and while the
State budget appears to be stabilizing, and Proposition 30
has helped to prevent further cuts, it does nothing to restore
the tens of millions in funding already lost; and

WHEREAS, the State is an unreliable partner when it
comes to funding education, and funding for our schools
has been reduced over the past several years and is not
expected to be restored until 2021, at the earliest; and
WHEREAS, of the 19 school districts within Marin
County, the District receives among the lowest level of
funding per student; and

WHEREAS, since 1992, community support in the form
of local education funding has been critical to maintaining
high-quality academic programs and keeping qualified
teachers in our classrooms through this challenging period;
and

WHEREAS, the existing educational parcel tax is set
to expire, and unless renewed by voters, will result in a
dramatic reduction of funding, which will force reductions
to the District’s academic programs; and

WHEREAS, to meet new rigorous state and federal
state standards, and to ensure that students receive a
modem education that prepares them for future success
throughout their education and onto college and the 21st
century job market, Novato schools are implementing new
instructional technology and programs; and

WHEREAS, 100% of local parcel tax education
funding stays in our Novato schools, is dedicated to
supporting high-quality education, and cannot be taken or
redirected by the State, with annual reports and review by
a Citizens’ Oversight Committee to ensure funds are spent
properly, and no funds are used for administrator salaries;
and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (“Board”) believes
that our strong local property values are related to the
quality of education available in the District’s public
schools; and

WHEREAS, an adequately funded and well-developed
public education program provides numerous benefits and
advantages to all of the residents of the community; and
WHEREAS, the California Constitution and
Government Code authorize the District, upon approval
of 2/3rds of the electorate, to levy qualified special taxes
on property in the District for the purpose of providing
quality educational programs in the District and other
lawful purposes of the District; and

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Board, following

public hearing and comment, it is advisable to request
that the Marin County Registrar of Voters (“Registrar”)
call a mailed ballot election and submit to the voters of
the District the question whether the District shall renew
a special tax within the District for the purpose of raising
revenue for the District; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Elections Code, a school
district may, by resolution of its governing board, conduct
any election by all mailed ballots in accordance with the
laws governing all mailed ballot elections; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Education Code and
Elections Code such election may be completely or
partially consolidated with any other election held on the
same day and in the same territory or territory that is in part
the same.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1.	Resolution Constitutes Order of Election.

This resolution shall constitute an order of election pursuant
to the Education Code to the Marin County Superintendent
of Schools (“County Superintendent”) to call an all mailed
ballot election within the boundaries of the District on
May 6, 2014.

Section 2. Date and Purpose of Measure. Pursuant
to the California Constitution and Government Code, a
special all mailed ballot election shall be held within the
boundaries of the District on Tuesday, May 6, 2014, for the
purpose of voting on a measure (“Measure”) which will
be presented to voters in substantially the form attached
hereto as Exhibit A, containing the question of whether
the District shall impose a special tax for the educational
purposes stated therein. In addition, the full text of the
Measure (“Full Ballot Text”) shall appear in the ballot
pamphlet in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit B. The authority for the specifications of this
election order is contained in the Education Code, and
the authority for ordering the election is contained in the
Education Code, Elections Code, Government Code, and
California Constitution.

Section 3. Exemptions from Special Tax. Under
procedures adopted by the District, an exemption from
payment of the special tax may be granted on any parcel
owned by one or more persons who is/are:

(a)	Sixty-five (65) years of age or over and occupying
said parcel as a principal residence (“Senior Citizen
Exemption”); or

(b)	Receiving Supplemental Security Income for a
disability, regardless of age and occupying said
parcel as a principal residence (“SSI Exemption”).

(c)	Receiving Social Security Disability Insurance
benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly income
does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal
poverty guidelines issued by the United States
Department of Health and Human Services (“SSDI
Exemption”).

The District shall annually provide to the Marin County
Tax Collector (“County Tax Collector”) or other
appropriate County official a list of parcels that the District
has approved for an exemption.

Section 4. Collection of the Tax. Beginning July 1,

2015, the special tax shall be collected by the County
Tax Collector, at the same time, in the same manner, and
subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes
collected by the County Tax Collector. Unpaid special
taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for
unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

The special tax shall be levied on every Parcel of Taxable
Real Property in the District. To the extent allowed by law
“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as:

(a)	Any unit of real property in the District that receives
a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes
from the County Tax Collector’s Office.

(b)	All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon
which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in
any year shall not be considered a Parcel of Taxable
Real Property for purposes of the special tax in
such year.

(c)	Multiple parcels which are contiguous, under
common ownership, and that constitute one
economic unit, meaning that they have the same
primary purpose as the principal parcel and are
not separate and distinct properties that may be
independently developed or sold, shall comprise a
single Parcel of Taxable Real Property for purposes
of the special tax.

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary
to law, the Board declares and the voters by approving
the Measure concur, that every other section and part of
this definition has independent value, and the Board and
voters would have adopted each other section and part
hereof regardless of every other section or part hereof. If
all sections or parts of this definition are deemed contrary
to law, “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined
as any real property in the District assigned an assessor’s
parcel number.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its
jurisdiction, the County Tax Collector shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason,
and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to
matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including the
Senior Citizen Exemption, the SSI Exemption, the SSDI
Exemption, the application of the definition of “Parcel of
Taxable Real Property” to any parcel(s), the legality or
validity of the special tax, or any other disputed matter
specific to the application of the special tax, the decisions
of the District shall be final and binding.

Section 5. Authority for Ordering Election. The
authority for ordering the election is contained in the
Education Code, Elections Code, Government Code, and
California Constitution.

Section 6. Authority for Specifications. The

authority for the specification of this election order is
contained in the Education Code.

Section 7. Resolution to County Officials. The Clerk
of the Board is hereby directed to cause certified copies
of this Resolution and order to be delivered not later
than February 5, 2014, to the County Superintendent, the
Registrar, and the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of
Marin County (“Board of Supervisors”).

Section 8.	Formal Notice. The County Superintendent

is hereby requested to prepare and execute a Formal
Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit C (the
“Formal Notice”), and to call the election by causing
the Formal Notice to be posted in accordance with the
applicable law no later than February 5, 2014, or to
otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by
law. The Secretary of the Board, on behalf of and as may
be requested by the County Superintendent, is authorized
to cause all notices required by law in connection herewith
to be published and posted, as the case may be.

Section 9. Conduct of Election.

(a)	Request to Registrar. Pursuant to State law, the
Registrar is requested to take all steps to hold the
election on May 6, 2014, in accordance with law
and these specifications. The election shall be
conducted by means of an all mailed ballot election
pursuant to the Elections Code. The election may
be consolidated with another election as specified
below, if such consolidation is feasible and
appropriate.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar is hereby requested
to reprint the Full Ballot Text in substantially the
form attached hereto as Exhibit B in the voter
information pamphlet to be distributed to voters
pursuant to the Elections Code. In the event the
Full Ballot Text will not be reprinted in the voter
information pamphlet in its entirety, the Registrar
is hereby requested to print, immediately below the
impartial analysis of the Measure, in no less than
10-point boldface type, a legend substantially as
follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of

Measure_____. If you desire a copy of the Measure,

please call the Marin County Registrar of Voters at
[phone number] and a copy will be mailed at no cost
to you. ”

(c)	Consolidation. The County Superintendent and
the Board of Supervisors are hereby requested to
consolidate the election ordered hereby with any
and all other elections as may be held on the same
day in the same territory or in territory that is in part
the same.

(d)	Canvass and Declaration of Results. The Board of
Supervisors is authorized to canvass the returns of
the election and declare the result pursuant to the
Elections Code.

(e)	Cost of Election. The District will reimburse the
Registrar and the County for costs associated with
the election as required by law.

Section 10. Appropriations Limit. The Board shall
provide in each year for an increase in the District’s
appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that the
proceeds of the special tax may be spent for its authorized
purposes.

Section 11. Ballot Arguments. The President of
the Board and/or her designees are hereby authorized to
prepare and file with the Registrar any ballot argument
prepared in connection with the election, including a
rebuttal argument, each within the time established by

the Registrar, which shall be considered the official ballot
arguments of the Board as sponsor of the Measure.

Section 12. Official Actions. The District
Superintendent, President of the Board, or their designees
are hereby authorized to execute any other document and
to perform all acts necessary to place the Measure on the
ballot, including making alterations to the Measure and
Full Ballot Text stated in Exhibits A and B hereto, and to
this Resolution to comply with requirements of law and
election officials or which are, in the judgment of the
Superintendent, in the best interests of the District.

Section 13. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take
effect from and after its adoption.

ADOPTED, SIGNED and APPROVED by the Board of
Trustees of the Novato Unified School District on the 4th
day of February, 2014, by the following vote:

AYES: 7
NOES: 0

ABSTENTIONS: -

s/SHELLY SCOTT
President of the Board of Trustees of the Novato Unified
School District