CITY OF RED BLUFF
MEASURE D
ORDINANCE NO. 1030
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF RED BLUFF ENACTING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY

THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, SUBJECTTO
ADOPTION BY THE ELECTORATE

The City Council of the City of Red Bluff does ordain as follows:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City
of Red Bluff Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance of 2014. The City
of Red Bluff hereinafter shall be called “City." This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days
after November 4, 2014.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve
the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of
Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use
Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retaii transactions and use tax ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest
degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance,

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative
date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform ail functions incident to the administration and operation of
this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall
not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shal! nevertheless so contract and In such a case
the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of
selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of
0,25% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative
date of this ordinance.

Section 6, PLACE OF SALE, For the purposes of this
ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business
of the retailer uniess the tangible persona! property sold is delivered
by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the
place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted
by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7, USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed
on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible persona!
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date
of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory

at the rate of 0.25% of the sales price of the property. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.
Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001} of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted
therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the
title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control,
State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or
employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration
or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	in those sections, including, but not
necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of
the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be
to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to
tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision
of that code.

4.	in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code,

B,	The word ''City11 shall be substituted for the word "State"
in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State'1 in Section 6203
and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has
been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required
by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS,

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use
tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county,
or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use
Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use
tax.

B,	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers
of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government.

2,	Sales of property to be used outside the City
which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract
of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point, For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside
the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000} of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities

52-501

52501

Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840} of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is' obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to
a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of 'tangible personal property which
is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which
the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and

(4)	of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall
be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by
this ordinance, the storage, use or .other consumption in this City of
tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products
purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366,1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any
right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease
which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time
for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and

(4)	of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession
of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a
retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect
use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within
the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited
to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the
authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City"
shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3,5 (commencing with Section 9840} of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer snail be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft
at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property
the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use

taX‘ Section 12. AMENDMENTS TO STATE LAW. All amendments
subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes
and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that
no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed
by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process
shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the
State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount
of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this
ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is
held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 15. EFFECTIVE DATE AND SUBMISSION TO VOTERS.
This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of City transactions
and use taxes and shall take effect immediately. However, no tax
imposed by this ordinance shall be effective unless that tax has been
approved by the by the voters of the City as required by Section 2(b)
of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution and applicable law.

Section 16. AUDIT. The proceeds of the tax imposed pursuant
to this Ordinance, as well as the expenditure thereof, shall be audited
annually by an independent accounting firm.

Section 17. TERMINATION. The authority to levy the taxes
imposed by this ordinance shall terminate on March 31, 2021.

Section 18.	DECLARATION. The proceeds of the taxes imposed

by this ordinance may be used for any lawful purpose of the City, as
authorized by ordinance, resolution or action of the City Council or by
Ordinance adopted by the electorate of the City. These taxes do not
meet the criteria established by Section 1(d) of Article XIIIC of the
California Constitution for special taxes, and are general taxes imposed
for general government purposes,

Section 19. Within 15 days from the passage thereof, this
ordinance shall be published at least once in the Red Bluff Daily News,
a newspaper of general circulation, published and circulated in the City
of Red Bluff.

The forgoing ordinance was introduced at a regular meeting of the Red
Bluff City Council on March 18, 2014 and adopted at a regular meeting of
the Red Bluff City Council on April 1, 2014 by the following vote:

AYES: Councilmembers: Brown, Eliggi, Jackson, Parker and Schmid

NOES: Councilmembers: None

ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: Councilmembers: None

s/ Daniele Jackson
Daniele Jackson, Mayor

ATTEST:

si Chervl Smith_____________

Cheryl Smith, Deputy City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

si Rick Crabtree_________

Rick Crabtree, City Attorney

52-502

52502

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE D

Measure D seeks voter approval of a 0.25% (quarter-cent) transactions
and use tax authorized by the City of Red Bluff Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance of 2014 (Ordinance No. 1030}.

If Measure D is approved, the transactions and use tax will be in
effect from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2021. Any extension of
the tax beyond March 31, 2021 would require additional voter
approval.

The transactions and use tax would be collected by the California
Franchise Tax Board along with the sales and use tax. Consumers
most commonly pay sales and use taxes in the form of the sales tax
collected by a retailer. In certain circumstances, when a product is
bought outside of the state and first used inside of the state, that
use is subject to the use tax. The current sales and use tax rate in
Red Bluff (and throughout Tehama County) is 7.5% (seven and a half
cents}, One cent of this rate is a local sales tax (known as the
Bradley-Burns tax) that is imposed throughout the state, The
remainder is a state tax that funds the state government.

For the most part, if a transaction or use that occurs in the City of
Red Bluff is subject to the California sales or use tax, it will also be
subject to the proposed transaction and use tax. The differences
between a transaction and use tax and a sales and use tax are
governed by state law. The most significant difference is that, for
sales of motor vehicles, the transactions and use tax is applied not
based on the location of the sale (such as a car dealer's location)
but based on the location.for which the motor vehicle is registered
with the Department of Motor Vehicles (generally the new owner’s
address). Sales of goods that are exempt from the California sales
and use tax (such as most food sales, drug sales, and charges for
services) are also exempt from the transactions and use tax.

The City estimates that the Measure' D tax will generate $600,000 in
revenues annually. These revenues will be deposited in the City’s
general fund and available for any lawful municipal purpose, Such
purposes include, but are not limited to, funding of the City’s police,
fire and recreation and parks departments, Because revenues are
available for general purposes, Measure D can be approved by the
voters by a majority vote of the ballots cast on the measure. Revenues
will be subject to annual independent audit.

Measure D was placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City
of Red Bluff

s/Mark Mandell_________________________

Mark Mandell, Special Deputy City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure D,
If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call
the City’s Deputy City Clerk (530-527-2605, ext 3057) and a
copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

VOTE YES on Measure D, a temporary sales tax increase to help
restore safe neighborhoods; sustainable police and fire staffing;
replacement of necessary police and fire equipment, keep City Parks
clean, safe and acquire safe playground equipment. The City of Red
Bluff has worked hard to be fiscally responsible while maintaining
essential city services. The recession and state raids on local revenue
sources have taken your local tax dollars to balance the State’s budget-
-no more! We want local control over local tax dollars! Measure D
will authorize a temporary 14 cent sales tax to fund important City
services such as;

•	Maintaining firefighting response with adequate staffing and
equipment

*	Improving police protection for a safer Downtown District and
safer neighborhoods

•	Restore staffing levels lost due to the recession

*	Enhance funding to sustain well equipped and maintained City
Parks

ALL Measure D funds will stay locally controlled IN Red Bluff - FOR
Red Bluff. The State CANNOT take any of this funding away.

Measure D automatically ends in 6 years, it includes strict
accountability, with mandatory annual audits which will be reported
to and made available for the community to ensure the funds are
spent as promised for community priorities.

Basic necessities like groceries and prescription medications will not
be taxed. Visitors to Red Bluff will pay their fair share, so residents
won’t shoulder the entire cost. The average citizen will see an increase
of only about (Ip) penny for every four dollars spent; but collectively
this will generate funds for essential services.

Measure D is a smart investment for our future. Please join us in
voting YES on Measure D.

s/ Rvan Sale______________._______________________

Ryan Sale, Former Red Bluff Mayor/Council Member

s/ Daniele Jackson______________________

Daniele Jackson, Mayor City of Red Bluff

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

52-503

52503