TOWN OF CORTE MADERA MEASURE I	
T MEASURE I: In order to continue ex- 1 isting emergency services in the Town A of Corte Madera, shall there be a con- tinuation of the special tax for paramedic and/or emergency medical services for four i the annual amount of $75.00 per residence a square feet of floor area for nonresidential i years 2015-2016 through 2018-2019, with tl tions limit increasing by the amount of said	YES
	NO
	more years at ind per 1,000 ises for fiscal lie appropria- tax?

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE I

If this measure is approved by the requisite two-thirds
vote, an ordinance shall be adopted in the Town of Corte
Madera imposing a special tax for paramedic and/or emer-
gency medical services (EMS). This is not the first time
an EMS tax has been submitted to and approved by the
Town’s voters. A special EMS tax was first approved by
the Town’s voters on June 7, 1983, and was last approved
by the Town’s voters on November 8,2011. Since that tax
will expire on June 30, 2015, voter approval of this mea-
sure is required in order to continue the provision of EMS
services at existing levels.

If approved, this measure will impose a yearly tax for
EMS services for the four fiscal years beginning July 1,
2015, and ending on June 30, 2019. A “fiscal year” runs
from July 1 of one year through June 30 of the next year.
If approved, the tax amount per fiscal year will remain at
the rate of $75.00 for each residential unit and $75.00 per

1.000	square feet of enclosed floor area for nonresidential
uses throughout the entire period that the tax is in effect.
In the current fiscal year (2014-2015), the yearly tax rate
is also $75.00 for each residential unit and $75.00 for each

1.000	square feet of enclosed floor area for nonresidential
uses.

The measure provides that the tax proceeds must be
placed in a special fund which may only be used for the
provision of EMS services. The tax amount specified
above may not be increased without the approval of two-
thirds of the Town voters. The measure also provides that
the EMS tax will be collected by the Marin County Tax
Collector along with the property tax. As stated above, the
tax will automatically terminate on June 30,2019.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Town
Council of the Town of Corte Madera.

s/JEFFREY A. WALTER
Town Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I

This is not a new tax! It is a continuation of a special tax
approved by an overwhelming majority of Corte Madera
voters starting in 1983. For the next four years the tax will
remain at the capped amount ($75) approved by the voters
in the 2011 election.

The tax provides a significant portion of the revenue need-
ed to fund the existing paramedic ambulance services in
Corte Madera. Without the tax, the Advanced Life Support
services provided since 1998 by Corte Madera Fire
Department Paramedics primarily for Corte Madera resi-
dents will be in jeopardy. Emergency paramedic ambu-
lance service would be provided by an ambulance miles
away, instead of in town.

Response time and rapid intervention are critical to saving
lives in cardiac events, other medical emergencies and
traumatic injuries. A delay of even seconds in care and/or
transport can literally mean the difference between life and
death.

Please vote “YES” on this measure.
s/MICHAEL LAPPERT
Mayor, Town of Corte Madera
s/DR. BOB BUNDY
Corte Madera Flood Board
s/PATI STOLIAR
Registered Nurse
s/JANA HAEHL
Co-Chair, Citizens for Saving Paramedic Services
s/BECKY REED
Co-Chair, Citizens for Saving Paramedic Services

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE I WAS FILED.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans recommends that
you vote “NO” on Measure I. Our reasoning follows:

•	Measure I requests taxpayer money to provide ser-
vices that should be funded through the normal
operating revenues of the Town.

•	The Town has asked for funding to mask the sys-
tematic mismanagement of their operations.

•	Money is fungible. A “YES” vote on Measure I is a
vote to allow our elected officials to avoid setting
priorities and allocating funds appropriately.

•	The systematic mismanagement of operations is
highlighted through excessive pensions and retiree
medical plans.

Mismanaged pensions and other retirement plans are
endemic in the public sector and the Town is no exception.
These plans suffer from major problems:

•	The plans are extremely generous. The value of the
plans dwarfs the value of corresponding plans pro-
vided the private sector.

•	In addition to their lavish plan costs, the plans are
subject to extreme cost fluctuations and risk. The
costs of plans are based upon very optimistic
assumptions. Unless those assumptions are met
(and they have not been this century), there is a
funding shortfall (i.e., unfunded liability). This
shortfall is recovered through increased contribu-
tions from the Town (i.e., the taxpayer).

•	These higher contributions come at a cost. Either
the Town reduces services or it requests more
money. Measure I is an example of a request for
more money from the taxpayer.

If taxpayers vote for Measure I, they are enabling the
Town to continue its mismanagement by maintaining its
rich and financially volatile retirement plans. A better idea
is that the Town reform its plans to stabilize its budget and
to eliminate the need for taxpayer requests such as
Measure I.

Vote against this measure!
s/JODY MORALES
Founder and President,

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE I

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans (CSPP) has a noble
and worthwhile cause, but it makes the same argument
against all tax measures, regardless of the facts and cir-
cumstances.

Revenue from paramedic tax measures approved by the
voters has been supporting paramedic and emergency
medical services in Corte Madera, and the rest of the Ross
Valley, since 1983, and has been providing a local para-
medic ambulance in Corte Madera since 1998. Without
these funds, the service would never have existed. This
measure continues that support, at the capped rate, for
another four years. It cannot be used for any other pur-
pose. These facts are not “masked”; they are in the mea-
sure itself.

The town is actively addressing the cost of pension plans
and other post-employment benefits and has taken steps to
reduce or reform the liability for these, as well as overall
expenses. Among the changes are:

-	Employees now pay their own and a portion of the
employer’s cost for their retirement benefits

-	Retiree Health benefits have been significantly
reduced

-	Employees hired after 2012 have a significantly
reduced pension benefit

-	Employees were subject to unpaid work furloughs
for 18 months

-	Apparatus and equipment replacement has been
deferred

Retirement cost reduction will take time, but the town is
off to a good start.

Pension reform is important, but unrelated to the purpose
of this tax.

Please vote “Yes” on Measure I.
s/JOAN VAUGHAN
Long-time Corte Madera Community Leader
s/LARRY REED
Retired CFO Highmark Capital
s/CLYDE MARQUART
Long-time Corte Madera Community Leader
s/SUZI BEATIE
Long-time Corte Madera Community Leader
s/ROBERT RAVASIO
Councilmember, Town of Corte Madera

CM-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE I

ORDINANCE NO. 941

AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF CORTE
MADERA IMPOSING A SPECIAL TAX FOR
PARAMEDIC AND/OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL
SERVICES

The people of the Town of Corte Madera do ordain as
follows:

Section 1: Chapter 3.50 of the Town of Corte Madera
Municipal Code is hereby added to read as follows:
Chapter 3.50
CORTE MADERA PARAMEDIC AND/OR
EMERGENCY MEDTCAT. SERVICES TAX

3.50.010	Authority, purpose and intent.
3.50.020	Definitions.
3.50.030	Tax imposed.
3.50.040	Use of tax proceeds, appropriations limit.
3.50.050	Method of collection.
3.50.060	Delinquency.
3.50.070	Amendment of chapter.
3.50.080	Severability.
3.50.090	Two-thirds voter approval, effective date.
3.50.100	Sunset provision.
3.50.110	Execution.
3.50.010	Authority. purpose and intent. It is the

sole purpose and intent of this chapter to impose a special
tax on residential and nonresidential property within the
Town of Corte Madera (Town) for paramedic and/or emer-
gency medical services.

3.50.020 Definitions. The definitions given in this
section shall govern the construction of this chapter.

(1)	Floor area. “Floor area” shall be defined as the
total enclosed area of all floors of a building measured to
the outside face of the walls.

(2)	Nonresidential Use. “Nonresidential use” shall be
defined as any building which is designed, intended, or
used for any purpose other than a residential use, includ-
ing, but not limited to, commercial, industrial and office
uses. A hotel, motel and all residential units contained
therein, as defined below, shall be treated as a nonresiden-
tial use.

(3)	Residential Unit. “Residential unit” shall be de-
fined as each building or portion thereof, containing one or
more rooms, a separate bathroom, and a single kitchen, as
defined in Section 18.04.400 of the Corte Madera
Municipal Code, designed for or occupied by one family
or by one or more individuals.

3.50.030 Tax imposed. A special tax for the pur-
pose outlined in Section 3.50.010 shall be imposed on
nonresidential uses and on residential units in the amount
specified below for each of the fiscal years 2015-2016 to
2018-2019.

(1) Nonresidential uses:

Seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per year for each 1,000
square feet of floor area.

(2) Residential Units:

Seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per year for each resi-
dential unit.

3.50.040	Use of tax proceeds, appropriations limit.
The proceeds of the special tax imposed by this chapter
shall be used solely for the purpose of providing para-
medic and/or emergency medical services. The appropri-
ations limit of the Town shall be increased by the proceeds
received from this special tax for each of the four years of
this special tax.

3.50.041	Creation of Special Account and Annual
Report. The proceeds of the special tax imposed by this
chapter shall be placed in a special fund to be used solely
for the purpose of providing paramedic and/or emergency
medical services. No later than January 1, 2017, and at
least once a year thereafter, the Town’s chief financial offi-
cer shall file a report with the Town Council in compliance
with Cal. Gov’t Code section 50075.3.

3.50.050 Method of collection. The special tax
imposed by this chapter shall be due from every person
who owns real property within the Town on which is locat-
ed a residential unit(s) and/or a nonresidential use(s) and
as reflected upon the rolls of the Marin County Assessor at
the same time ad valorem tax is due. This special tax shall
be collected by the Marin County Tax Collector at the
same time, in the same manner, and subject to the same
terms and conditions, including penalties and interest, as
the ad valorem tax. The full amount due under this chap-
ter shall constitute a debt to the Town. An action for the
collection of any tax due hereunder may be commenced in
the name of the Town, or its assignee, in any court having
jurisdiction of the cause.

3.50.060 Delinquency. To any amount of the tax
created by this chapter which becomes delinquent, the
Marin County Tax Collector shall add a penalty in an
amount equal to any penalty owing for delinquencies in
the ad valorem property tax. The tax and penalty shall
bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad val-
orem tax until paid.

3.50.070 Amendment of chapter. The Town Coun-
cil is hereby authorized to amend this chapter by three (3)
affirmative votes of its members for the limited purposes
of carrying out the general purposes of this chapter, to con-
form the provisions of this chapter to applicable state law,
to permit the County Tax Collector to collect the special
tax levied by this chapter, or to re-assign the duties of pub-
lic officials under this chapter. In no event, however, may
the Town Council increase the tax amount specified in
Section 3.50.030 or modify the purposes for which the tax
may be utilized as provided for in Section 3.50.040 with-
out the approval of two-thirds of the voters of the Town
voting on the question.

3.50.080 Severability. If any section, or part there-
of, of this chapter is held invalid or unenforceable by any
court and such judgment becomes final, then that section,
or part thereof, may be amended by this Council, by a
majority vote, to conform with the judgment of such court,
provided such amendment is consistent with the purpose
and intent of this chapter. If any section, subsection, sen-

tence, phrase or clause of this chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the valid-
ity of the remaining portion of this chapter. The People of
the Town of Corte Madera hereby declare that they would
have adopted this chapter and each section, subsection,
sentence, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
phrases, or clauses may be declared invalid.

3.50.090 Two-thirds approval, effective date. An
election to confirm and approve this Ordinance has been
set for November 4, 2014. This ordinance shall be effec-
tive only if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters vot-
ing upon this Ordinance and shall go into effect ten (10)
days after the vote is declared by the Town Council.

3.50.100 Sunset provision. This Ordinance shall
expire and be of no further force or effect after midnight,
June 30,2019.

3.50.110 Execution. The Town Mayor is hereby
authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance by
signing where indicated below.

I certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED,
APPROVED and ADOPTED by the people of the Town of
Corte Madera voting on the 4th day of November 2014.

s/MICHAEL LAPPERT
Mayor

ATTEST:

s/REBECCA VAUGHN
Town Clerk

CM-4