City of Woodland Sales Tax
Continuation, Measure J (June 2014)

Ballot question

The question on the ballot:m

Shall Ordinance No. 1558 which would authorize the City of Woodland to continue
to collect a one-quarter cent sales tax for general city services, for a period of eight
years, and would not increase taxes, be adopted?121

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE J

Measure J, if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure, will continue for eight
(8) years a one-quarter cent sales tax previously adopted by City of Woodland voters in 2010
(Measure V). Unless the continuation is approved by the voters, the existing one-quarter cent
sales tax will sunset and expire on September 30, 2014. If Measure J is adopted, it will extend
the one-quarter cent sales tax until September 30, 2022.

Measure J proposes to raise revenue for general City of Woodland purposes by continuing the
current one-quarter cent sales tax within the City of Woodland. The tax would be paid in
addition to current state and local sales taxes and would continue to be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as the existing sales tax.

State law allows the City to levy a transaction and use (i.e. a “sales”) tax at certain rates,
including a 0.25 percent rate if the tax is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure. The City Council of the City of Woodland voted on January 7,2014 to place Measure J
on the ballot.

Measure J would continue the existing sales tax, which is used for city services, programs, and
facilities. Measure J would maintain the overall effective sales tax rate in the City of Woodland
at 8.25%. Because this tax would continue to be a “general tax,” the City would be able to use
the tax proceeds for any legal governmental purpose without restriction. The City would not be
legally bound in any way to use the tax monies for any special purpose or for any particular
program or service. However, the City Council could choose to allocate some or all of the
revenue from the extended sales tax according to the voters’ preferences on the advisory
measures (Measures K, L, M, and N), which ask the City’s voters about their funding
preferences concerning whether the tax revenue should be used to fund youth and teen programs,
educational and youth literacy programs, public safety, and/or utility ratepayer assistance.

The City would continue to be required to annually prepare a detailed report of income and
expenditures of sales tax revenues and to present the report to the public and to publish it in local
newspapers.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance 1558, Measure J. If you desire a
copy of the Ordinance or Measure, please call the elections official’s office at (530) 661-
5806, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Kara K. Ueda
Woodland City Attorney

YES ON MEASURE J

Argument in Favor Of Measure J

A YES vote will reauthorize an existing V* cent sales tax to fund vital Library programs,
enhance literacy, expand recreational programs for our youth, enhance public safety and
crime prevention and assist low income residents with City utility bill payments.

A YES vote on J will NOT result in any increase in taxes.

Sunset: This authorization will expire in 8 years.

Accountability: We will receive a detailed spending plan and an annual report from the
City of revenues collected and how the funds have been spent.

Fairness: The % cent sales tax is already being collected; this measure extends the sunset
date. 100% of this % cent sales tax extension will remain in Woodland to serve our
residents.

Woodlanders have a proud history of paying our own way and a willingness to pay for
what we need. A YES vote on this measure means that approximately $1.5 million to $2
million annually will be raised for the next 8 years to help fund these critical City
services. A YES vote means that we are taking an active role in protecting our quality of
life in Woodland as we work to move our community forward.

Please vote YES on Measure J.

IS/

Marlin H. Davies, Mayor
Tom Stallard, Vice Mayor
William L. Marble, Council Member
Jim Hilliard, Council Member
Sean Denny, Council Member

ORDINANCE NO. 1558

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WOODLAND
AMENDING SECTION 23-100 OF ARTICLE VII OF CHAPTER 23 OF THE WOODLAND
MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO A SUPPLEMENTAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, the voters of the City of Woodland approved the enactment of a one-quarter cent
sales tax on June 8, 2010; and

WHEREAS, the tax measure (Measure V) provided that it would sunset in four years; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Woodland has determined that it is necessary and
desirable to ask the voters of the City of Woodland to extend the one-quarter cent sales tax for an
additional eight years for the purpose of funding general City programs and services; and

WHEREAS, approval of this Ordinance by the voters of the City of Woodland would not raise
taxes but would extend an existing tax.

The City Council of the City of Woodland does ordain as follows:

WHEREAS, the voters of the City of Woodland approved a one-quarter cent sales tax in June

Section 1. Authority. The City Council enacts this ordinance in accordance with the authority
granted to cities by Article XI, Section 7 of the California Constitution.

Section 2. Amendment. Section 23-100 of Article VII of Chapter 23 of the City of Woodland
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Section 23.100. Definitions.

For the purpose of this chapter the following words terms shall have the meaning
given in this section:

(a)	The words “in the city” shall mean and include all territory within
the city limits.

(b)	“Operative Date” shall mean the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the later of the adoption of
Ordinance No. 1558 and the approval by the voters of the city of a measure
approving the extension of a transaction and use tax; provided that, if the city
shall not have entered into, or amended, a contract with the State Board of
Equalization as required by Section 23-102 prior to such date, the Operative Date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract. If this amendment is approved on January 7, 2014, and the measure is

approved at the June 3, 2014 election, the Operative Date shall be October 1,
2014.

(c) “Termination Date” initially shall mean the eighth anniversary of
the Operative Date and, if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure at an election held subsequent to the June 3, 2014, election, shall mean
such later date as the voters may approve. If the Operative Date is October 1,
2014, the initial Termination Date shall be September 30, 2022.

Section 3. Spending Plan. The City shall prepare a detailed spending plan and report regarding
the expenditure of any proceeds from the the taxes collected pursuant to Article VII of Chapter
23 of the Woodland Municipal Code. The spending pland and report shall be presented to the
public and published in the newspapers.

Section 4. Effective Date and Notice. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect only if approved by a majority of the voters
voting on the measure at the June 2014 General Municipal Election and shall become effective
ten days after the City Council declares and certifies by resolution the results of the election and
that the measure was approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon. The ordinance shall
then become operative in accordance with Section 23.100 .The City Clerk is hereby directed to
publish this ordinance at least once, within fifteen (15) days of its adoption, in a newspaper of
general circulation published and circulated in the City of Woodland.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council this 7th day of January, 2014, by the following
vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Council Members Denny, Hilliard, Marble, Stallard and Davies

None

None

None

Marlin H. Davies

ATTEST:

Ana B. Gonzalez, City

APPROVED AS TO FORM:



K/ara K. Ueda, City Attorney