Ballot Question - REVISED

Shall an ordinance imposing a 10 per ounce general tax on the distribution of sugar-sweetened
beverages (e.g., sodas, energy drinks, presweetened teas) and sweeteners used to sweeten
such drinks, but exempting: (1) sweeteners (e.g., sugar, honey, syrups) typically used by
consumers and distributed to grocery stores; (2) drinks and sweeteners distributed to very small
retailers; (3) diet drinks, milk products, 100% juice, baby formula, alcohol, or drinks taken for
medical reasons, be adopted?

City Attorney's Impartial Analysis - REVISED

The proposed ordinance would impose a general tax of one cent ($0.01) per ounce on the
distribution in Berkeley of sugar-sweetened beverages and the added-calorie sweeteners
(“sweeteners”) used to make them. The tax on added-calorie sweeteners would be calculated
based on the number of ounces of sweetened beverage that would typically be produced using
that sweetener.

The tax would be payable by the distributor, not the customer.

Beverages

Sugar sweetened beverages whose distribution would be subject to the tax would include
sugar-sweetened beverages, like soda, energy drinks, and presweetened tea, that contain at
least 2 calories per fluid ounce.

Certain beverages would not be subject to the tax:

•	Baby formula

•	Beverages in which milk is the primary ingredient

•	Beverages or liquids sold for use for weight reduction as a meal replacement

•	Medical beverages (beverages used as oral nutritional therapy or oral
rehydration electrolyte solution for infants and children),

•	Beverages containing only natural fruit and vegetable juice

•	Alcoholic beverages..

Added-calorie sweeteners

Added-calorie sweeteners would include any edible product that is perceived as sweet and adds
calories, and is used to make sugar-sweetened beverages, including but not limited to sucrose,
fructose, glucose, other sugars, and high fructose corn syrup.

Added-calorie sweeteners would not include natural, concentrated, or reconstituted fruit or
vegetable juice or any combination thereof.

Applicability and exemptions
The tax would apply to:

•	distribution of sugar-sweetened beverages to stores and restaurants;

•	distribution of sweeteners to restaurants; and

•	distribution of sweeteners to stores where they are used to make sugar-
sweetened beverages for customers.

The tax would not apply to:

•	distribution of sweeteners to food stores;

•	distribution of sugar sweetened beverages or sweeteners to retailers with less
than $100,000 in annual gross receipts.

The proposed ordinance would also establish a panel of experts to advise the City Council on
how and to what extent the City should establish and/or fund programs to reduce the
consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley and to address the effects of such
consumption.

The panel would consist of 9 members, who must satisfy at least one of the following criteria:

•	have experience in	community-based youth food and nutrition programs; or

•	have experience in	school-based food and nutrition programs and be referred by

the Berkeley Unified School District; or

•	have experience in	early childhood nutrition education; or

•	have experience in	researching public health issues or evaluating public health

programs related to diabetes, obesity, and sugary drink consumption; or

•	be a licensed medical practitioner.

This proposed ordinance was placed on the ballot by the City Council.

Is/ ZACH COWAN
Berkeley City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Vote YES on MEASURE D to protect our children’s health.

Overwhelming scientific evidence shows that consumption of sugary drinks causes widespread health
problems, starting in childhood. One-third of all children, and nearly half of African-American and Latino
children, are predicted to develop diabetes in their lifetimes. In addition to diabetes, tooth decay and heart
disease are also linked to sugary drink consumption.

Big Soda spends hundreds of millions of dollars to aggressively market sugary drinks to children - even
bypassing parents by texting teenagers directly.

Measure D places a tax on distributors (not on consumers) of high-calorie, low-nutrition sugary drinks
and syrups to make them. It does not tax natural fruit or vegetable juices, milk products, baby formula, or
drinks taken for health reasons. Measure D is NOT a sales tax.

Measure D establishes a panel of health professionals and educators to advise the City Council on how
best to support programs to reduce sugary drink consumption in Berkeley and address the effects of
consumption.

A wide range of Berkeley citizens, organizations, and healthcare professionals endorse Measure D,

including the Berkeley NAACP, Berkeley Federation of Teachers, City Council, School Board, Latinos
Unidos de Berkeley, Ecology Center, Telegraph Business Improvement District, Berkeley Dental Society,
Alice Waters, and Michael Pollan.

Big Soda has spent millions of dollars to confuse and manipulate voters and is trying to do so again.

Don’t be fooled. Look closely - you will see that primary opposition comes from outside Berkeley, led by
the American Beverage Association. The real costs and suffering for families come from health problems
linked to sugary drinks.

Berkeley has always been a leader on important issues. Together with San Francisco we will become the
first of many U.S. cities to tax sugary drinks.

www.BerkeleyVsBigSoda.com

VOTE YES ON MEASURE D

s/Loni Hancock
State Senator

s/Mansour Id-Deen
President of Berkeley’s NAACP

s/Alice Waters

Founder, Chez Panisse & the Edible Schoolyard Project
s/Nancy Bickel

President, League of Women Voters of Berkeley, Albany, Emeryville
s/Marty Lynch

LifeLong Medical Care, Executive Director

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

Some want you to believe Measure D will make Berkeley healthier—but look closer and you’ll see that’s
just not the case.

Right now, San Franciscans are voting on a similar proposal that specifically dedicates beverage tax funds
for health and wellness programs.

Unfortunately for those who live in Berkeley, Measure D just does not come with those guarantees.

Measure D is purposefully written so that tax revenue will not be directed toward health and
wellness programs. Rather it will be funneled into the general fund where there is no accountability
as to how the money is spent and no guarantee that any revenue will actually benefit nutritional
programs.

Obesity and diabetes are important problems, but Measure D takes the wrong approach to solving these
problems:

•	Measure D comes with arbitrary and confusing exemptions.

•	Chocolate milk, 100% juice drinks, diet soda, alcoholic beverages, and some coffee drinks will
not be taxed.

•	Under Measure D, some stores will pay the tax and others won’t.

Singling out some sugar-sweetened beverages for taxation but providing exemptions for others doesn’t
make sense. If this law won’t be applied with any consistency, what’s the point?

Lawmakers in San Francisco say funds from their proposed tax measure will go toward health and
wellness programs. Berkeley lawmakers just want the tax money for the general fund so they can spend it
however they choose—and they want Berkeley taxpayers to pay for it.

That’s not fair.

There is a better way, Berkeley—but a beverage tax riddled with exemptions and arbitrary loopholes isn’t
it. That’s why you should vote NO on Measure D.

s/Masamoni Yasumaga
Owner of Seasons of Japan

s/Roy Mowrouzi
Owner of Cafe Rio

s/Sylvester Lollis

Owner of Bootstrapper Restaurant

s/Houshmand Ghaderi

Owner of The Vault Cafe and Restaurant

s/Francis Wong
Owner of Just Rite Market

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

A tax on some sugar-sweetened beverages—but not others—is the wrong way to approach complex
health issues.

Look closer: Measure D is riddled with loopholes.

For starters:

Some stores will pay the tax, but others won’t. For example, retailers who pick up their beverages outside
of Berkeley won’t pay the tax.

Measure D makes no sense:

Chocolate milk, 100% juice drinks, alcoholic beverages, and some coffee drinks will not be taxed—no
matter how much sugar or how many calories they contain. Organic local root beer will be taxed, but diet
soda is exempt. An iced tea is taxed if it is pre-sweetened, but not if the customer adds the sugar.

As for the panel that’s supposed to advise the city on managing the funds:

Measure D is written so that City Council can ignore those recommendations and spend the tax revenue
on anything they want. A similar measure in San Francisco specifically dedicates beverage tax funds for
health and wellness programs. That’s not the case with Measure D.

We can’t tax our way to health with a measure that provides absolutely zero accountability in
terms of how revenue is spent:

This tax is not about health; it’s about raising more money for the city. The fact is nothing in this measure
will prevent future City Councils from shifting the money to other things. Measure D comes with too
many loopholes, too many exemptions, and too few safeguards.

That’s why you should vote NO on D.

s/Ted Mundorff

CEO/President Landmark Theaters
s/James Fried

Vice President Teamsters Local 70

s/Masamoni Yasumaga
Owner of Seasons of Japan

s/Roy Mowrouzi
Owner of Cafe Rio

s/Sylvester Lollis

Owner of Bootstrapper Restaurant

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

The Beverage Industry is funding the campaign against Measure D. They have hired a Los Angeles PR
company and paid canvassers and phoners. And if it hasn’t happened already, expect a flood of mail in
an attempt to defeat Measure D. They even got one of their LA consultants to register to vote in Berkeley
so they could sue the city over Measure D.

Big Soda is concerned about the emerging scientific consensus that significant health problems -
including diabetes, obesity and dental problems - are linked with drinking sugary drinks. They are
concerned that Measure D will spark other communities around the country to tax sugary drinks (Mexico
already has).

Here are the facts:

•	Deceptively, although Big Soda asserts the San Francisco measure is “better,” Big Soda
opposes the San Francisco measure too.

•	Measure D is carefully written to create a panel of health and education experts, not
politicians, to devise strategies to combat the effects of sugary drinks on young people.

•	Milk products, diet drinks, natural vegetable and fruit juices are not taxed because they
are not typically laced with added sugar.

One third of all children face getting diabetes in their lifetimes, an outcome scientifically linked to the
beverage industry’s products.

Big Soda knows Measure D taxes distributors of these products, not consumers and Measure D will help
educate our children on healthier food choices.

Please join Berkeley teachers, nurses, parents, local Democratic clubs, restaurants, grocers and
community organizations in supporting Measure D.

www.BerkeleyvsBigSoda.com

VOTE YES on Measure D

Robert B. Reich

Chancellor’s Professor of Public Policy

Xavier Morales, Ph.D.

Co-Director Latinos Unidos de Berkeley

Martin Bourque

Ecology Center Executive Director
Tina Ferguson-Riffe

Chef/Owner of Smoke Restaurant Berkeley

Ann-Marie Hogan
Berkeley City Auditor

ORDINANCE NO. #,### - N.S.

IMPOSING A GENERAL TAX ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF SUGAR-SWEETENED
BEVERAGE PRODUCTS

BE IT ORDAINED by the People of the City of Berkeley as follows:

Section 1. Findings

A.	Our nation, our state, and our community face a major public health crisis.

B.	Diabetes, obesity, and tooth decay have been on the rise for decades. Although no
group has escaped these epidemics, children as well as low income communities
and communities of color have been and continue to be disproportionately affected.

C.	While there is no single cause for the rise in diabetes, obesity, and tooth decay,
there is overwhelming evidence of the link between the consumption of sugary
drinks and the incidence of diabetes, obesity, and tooth decay.

D.	Sugary drinks such as soft drinks, energy drinks, sweetened teas, and sport drinks
offer little or no nutritional value, but massive quantities of added sugar. A single 20-
ounce bottle of soda, for instance, typically contains the equivalent of approximately
16 teaspoons of sugar.

E.	Before the 1950s, the standard soft-drink bottle was 6.5 ounces. In the 1950s, larger
size containers were introduced, including the 12-ounce can, which became widely
available in 1960. By the early 1990s, 20-ounce plastic bottles had become the
norm.

F.	At the same time, hundreds of millions of dollars have been spent in an ongoing
massive marketing campaign, which particularly targets children and people of color.
In 2006 alone, nearly $600 million was spent in advertising to children under 18.
African American and Latino children are also aggressively targeted with
advertisements to promote sugar-laden drinks.

G.	The resulting impact on consumption should not be surprising. The average
American now drinks nearly 50 gallons of sugary drinks a year. The problem is
especially acute with children in California. From 1989 to 2008, the percentage of
children consuming sugary drinks increased from 79% to 91% and the percentage of
total calories obtained from sugary drinks increased by 60% in children ages 6 to 11.

H.	This level of consumption has had tragic impacts on community health. Type 2
Diabetes - previously only seen among adults - is now increasing among children. If
the current obesity trends are not reversed, it is predicted that one in three children
and nearly one-half of Latino and African American children born in the year 2000
will develop type 2 diabetes in their lifetimes.

I.	An Asian resident of Berkeley is almost 3 times more likely than a white resident to
have been diagnosed with diabetes, and an African American resident of Berkeley is
14 times more likely than a white resident to be hospitalized for diabetes.

K. Childhood obesity has more than doubled in children and tripled in adolescents in
the past 30 years; in 2010, more than one-third of children and adolescents were
overweight or obese.

1

N.	Our community has not been immune to the challenge of unhealthy weight gain and
obesity. In 2008-09, over 40% of Berkeley 9th graders were overweight or obese.
These overweight and obese children have a much greater chance of being obese
as adults, with all the health risks that entails.

M. There are also economic costs. In 2006, for instance, overweight and obesity-related
costs in California were estimated at almost $21 billion.

O.	Tooth decay, while not as life threatening as diabetes or obesity, still has a
meaningful impact, especially on children. In fact, tooth decay is the most common
childhood disease, experienced by over 70% of California’s 3rd graders. Children
who frequently or excessively consume beverages high in sugar are at increased
risk for dental cavities. Dental problems are a major cause of missed school days
and poor school performance as well as pain, infection, and tooth loss in California.

Section 2. Purpose and Intent

A.	Based on the findings set forth above, the purpose of this Ordinance is to diminish
the human and economic costs of diseases associated with the consumption of
sugary drinks by discouraging their distribution and consumption in Berkeley through
a tax. Specifically, the purpose of this ordinance is to tax the distribution of sugary
drinks and the products used to make them.

B.	This Ordinance is not intended for the purpose of regulation.

C.	This Ordinance does not authorize the conduct of any business or activity in the city,
but merely provides for the taxation of distribution of specified products as it occurs.

D.	This Ordinance imposes a general tax on the distribution of sugar-sweetened
beverages such as high-calorie, low-nutrition products, like soda, energy drinks, and
heavily presweetened tea, as well as the added caloric sweeteners used to produce
these sugar-sweetened beverages, such as the premade syrup used to make
fountain drinks. Certain drinks containing sugar are exempted, including infant
formula, milk products, and natural fruit and vegetable juice.

E.	This Ordinance provides for a small business exemption for Retailers who transport
sugar-sweetened beverage products into the City themselves and then sell those
products directly to consumers.

F.	This general tax will provide revenue to be available for the general governmental
needs of the people of Berkeley.

G.	This Ordinance provides for a Sugar Sweetened Beverage Product Panel of
Experts, composed of experts in the areas of public health, child nutrition, nutrition
education, and food access programs. The Panel will make recommendations on
how and to what extent the City should fund programs to further reduce the
consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages in Berkeley and address the
consequences of such consumption.

2

Section 3. New Berkeley Municipal Code Chapter 7.72

That a new Chapter 7.72 is added to the Berkeley Municipal Code is to read as follows:

Chapter 7.72

Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Product Distribution Tax

Section 7.72.010 Excise Tax

A.	In addition to any other taxes imposed by the City, the City hereby levies a tax of
one cent ($0.01) per fluid ounce on the privilege of Distributing Sugar-sweetened
beverage products in the City.

B.	For the purposes of this Chapter, the volume, in ounces, of a Sugar-sweetened
beverage product shall be calculated as follows:

1.	For a Sugar-sweetened beverage, the volume, in fluid ounces, of Sugar-
sweetened beverages distributed to any person in the course of business in the
City.

2.	For Added caloric sweeteners, the largest volume, in fluid ounces, of Sugar-
sweetened beverages that could be produced from the Added caloric
sweeteners. In accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the City
pursuant to Section 7.72.040, the largest volume, in fluid ounces, that would
typically be produced from the Added caloric sweeteners shall be determined
based on the manufacturer’s instructions or, if the Distributor uses the Added
caloric sweeteners to produce a Sugar-sweetened beverage, the regular practice
of the Distributor.

C.	The tax shall be paid upon the first non-exempt Distribution of a Sugar-sweetened
beverage product in the City. To the extent that there is a chain of Distribution within
Berkeley involving more than one Distributor, the tax shall be levied on the first
Distributor subject to the jurisdiction of the City. To the extent the tax is not paid as
set forth above for any reason, it shall be payable on subsequent Distributions and
by subsequent Distributors, provided that the Distribution of Sugar-sweetened
beverage products may not be taxed more than once in the chain of commerce.

Section 7.72.020 Exemptions

The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not apply:

A.	To any Distributor that is not subject to taxation by the City under the laws of the
United States or the State of California;

B.	To any Distribution of a Sugar-sweetened beverage product to a Retailer with less
than $100,000 in annual gross receipts, as defined in Section 9.04.025, in the most
recent year;

C.	To any Distribution of Natural or common sweeteners; or

D.	To any Distribution of Added caloric sweeteners to a Food Products Store as defined
in Section 23F.04.010, if the Food Products Store then offers the Added caloric
sweetener for sale for later use by customers of that store.

3

Section 7.72.030 Definitions

A.	“Added caloric sweetener” means any substance or combination of substances that
meets all of the following four criteria:

1.	Is suitable for human consumption;

2.	Adds calories to the diet if consumed;

3.	Is perceived as sweet when consumed; and

4.	Is used for making, mixing, or compounding Sugar-sweetened beverages by
combining the substance or substances with one or more other ingredients
including, without limitation, water, ice, powder, coffee, tea, fruit juice, vegetable
juice, or carbonation or other gas.

An Added caloric sweetener may take any form, including but not limited to a liquid,
syrup, and powder, whether or not frozen. “Added caloric sweetener” includes,
without limitation, sucrose, fructose, glucose, other sugars, and high fructose corn
syrup, but does not include a substance that exclusively contains natural,
concentrated, or reconstituted fruit or vegetable juice or any combination thereof.

B.	“Alcoholic beverage” means any beverage subject to tax under Part 14
(commencing with Section 32001) of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, as
that Part may be amended from time to time.

C.	“Beverage for medical use” means a beverage suitable for human consumption and
manufactured for use as an oral nutritional therapy for persons who cannot absorb
or metabolize dietary nutrients from food or beverages, or for use as an oral
rehydration electrolyte solution for infants and children formulated to prevent or treat
dehydration due to illness. “Beverage for medical use” shall also mean a “medical
food” as defined in Section 109971 of the California Health and Safety Code, as that
definition may be amended from time to time. “Beverage for medical use” shall not
include drinks commonly referred to as “sports drinks” or any other common names
that are derivations thereof.

D.	“Business Entity” means any Person except for a natural person.

E.	“City” means the City of Berkeley, California.

F.	“City Manager” means the City Manager of the City of Berkeley or his or her
designee.

G.	“Consumer” means a natural person who purchases a Sugar-sweetened beverage
product in the City for a purpose other than resale in the ordinary course of
business.

H.	“Distribution” or “Distribute” means the transfer of title or possession (1) from one
Business entity to another for consideration or (2) within a single Business entity,
such as by a wholesale or warehousing unit to a retail outlet or between two or more
employees or contractors. “Distribution” or “Distribute” shall not mean the retail sale
to a Consumer.

I.	“Distributor” means any Person who Distributes Sugar-sweetened beverage
products in the City.

J.	“Milk” means natural liquid milk, regardless of animal source or butterfat content,
natural milk concentrate, whether or not reconstituted, regardless of animal source
or butterfat content, or dehydrated natural milk, whether or not reconstituted and
regardless of animal source or butterfat content, and plant-based milk substitutes,
that are marketed as milk, such as soy milk and almond milk.

4

K.	“Natural or common sweetener” means granulated white sugar, brown sugar, honey,
molasses, xylem sap of maple trees, or agave nectar.

L.	“Person” means an individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, business concern,
business trust, government, receiver, trustee, syndicate, social club, fraternal
organization, estate, corporation, including, but not limited to, a, limited liability
company, and association or any other group or combination acting as a unit.

M.	“Retailer” means any Person who serves Sugar-sweetened beverage products to a
Consumer.

N.	“Simple syrup” means a mixture of water and one or more Natural or common
sweeteners without any additional ingredients.

O.	“Sugar-sweetened beverage” means any beverage intended for human consumption
to which one or more Added caloric sweeteners has been added and that contains
at least 2 calories per fluid ounce.

1.	“Sugar-sweetened beverage” includes, but is not limited to all drinks and
beverages commonly referred to as “soda,” “pop,” “cola,” “soft drinks,” “sports
drinks,” “energy drinks,” “sweetened ice teas,” or any other common names that
are derivations thereof.

2.	“Sugar-sweetened beverage” shall not include any of the following:

a.	Any beverage in which milk is the primary ingredient, i.e., the ingredient
constituting a greater volume of the product than any other;

b.	Any beverage for medical use;

c.	Any liquid sold for use for weight reduction as a meal replacement;

d.	Any product commonly referred to as “infant formula” or “baby formula”; or

e.	Any alcoholic beverage.

P.	“Sugar-sweetened beverage product” means a Sugar-sweetened beverage or
Added caloric sweetener.

Section 7.72.040 Duties, Responsibilities and Authority of the City Manager

A.	It shall be the duty of the City Manager to collect and receive all taxes imposed by
this Chapter, and to keep an accurate record thereof.

B.	The City Manager is hereby charged with the enforcement of this Chapter, except as
otherwise provided herein, and may prescribe, adopt, and enforce rules and
regulations relating to the administration and enforcement of this Chapter, including
provisions for the reexamination and correction of returns and payments, and for
reporting. Such rules and regulations may include, but are not limited to, the
following:

1.	The determination of the frequency with which a Distributor must calculate the
tax. This determination shall not constitute an increase of the tax.

2.	The determination of the frequency with which a Distributor must pay the tax.

This determination shall not constitute an increase of the tax.

3.	The determination of whether and how a Distributor must register with the City.

4.	The determination of whether and how a Distributor who receives, in the City,
Sugar-sweetened beverage products from another Distributor must report to the
City the name of that Distributor.

5.	The determination of whether and how a Distributor who receives, in the City,
Sugar-sweetened beverage products from another distributor must report to the

5

City the volume of Sugar-sweetened beverage products received from that
Distributor.

6.	The determination of what other documentation is required to be created or
maintained by a Distributor.

C.	The City Manager shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Chapter have
been properly applied, exempted, collected, and remitted.

Section 7.72.050 Collection

A.	The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any Distributor owing money under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be liable in an action brought in the name of the City
for the recovery of such amount.

B.	In order to aid in the City’s collection of taxes due under this Chapter, any Retailer
that receives Sugar-sweetened beverage products from a Distributor shall, in
accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the City Manager pursuant to
Section 7.72.040, either:

1.	report to the City all such transactions, the volume in ounces of Sugar-sweetened
beverage products received in each transaction, and the identity and contact
information of the Distributor from whom the Sugar-sweetened beverage
products were received; or

2.	collect the tax that would be payable as a result of the transaction by the
Distributor from whom the Sugar-sweetened beverage product was received and
remit it to the City; or

3.	provide to the City evidence that the Distributor from whom the Sugar-sweetened
beverage products were received has registered as a Distributor with the City
and that registration is current.

C.	The City Council is authorized to have the taxes imposed by this Chapter collected
by the County of Alameda or the California Board of Equalization in conjunction with
the collection of other taxes for the City. If the City Council exercises this
authorization, the duties and responsibilities of the City Manager shall be given, as
appropriate, to the County of Alameda or the California Board of Equalization, which
may delegate such duties and responsibilities as necessary and as authorized by
law.

Section 7.72.060 Refunds

Whenever any tax under this Chapter has been paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City, it may be refunded only as
provided in Chapter 7.20 of the Berkeley Municipal Code.

Section 7.72.070 Enforcement

Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter or by rule or regulation promulgated by
the City Manager, the tax imposed by this Chapter shall be administered in the same
manner as taxes imposed pursuant to Chapter 9.04 and, without limitation, shall be
subject to the same delinquency penalties, appeals processes and other enforcement
provisions set forth in Chapter 9.04.

6

Section 7.72.080 Not a Sales and Use Tax

The tax imposed by this Chapter is a tax upon the privilege of conducting business,
specifically, Distributing Sugar sweetened beverage products within the City of
Berkeley. It is not a sales, use, or other excise tax on the sale, consumption or use of
Sugar-sweetened beverage products.

Section 7.72.090 Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Product Panel of Experts

A.	There shall be established the Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Product Panel of
Experts to make recommendations on how and to what extent the City should
establish and/or fund programs to reduce the consumption of sugar-sweetened
beverages in Berkeley and to address the effects of such consumption.

B.	An officer or employee of the City designated by the City Manager shall serve as
secretary of the Panel.

C.	In accordance with Chapter 2.04, the Panel shall be composed of nine members
appointed by the City Council.

D.	Terms shall expire and vacancies shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.04.030 through 2.04.145 of this Code.

E.	Each member of the Panel must:

1.	Have experience in community-based youth food and nutrition programs; or

2.	Have experience in school-based food and nutrition programs and be referred by
the Berkeley Unified School District; or

3.	Have experience in early childhood nutrition education; or

4.	Have experience in researching public health issues or evaluating public health
programs related to diabetes, obesity, and sugary drink consumption; or

5.	Be a licensed medical practitioner.

F.	In accordance with Section 3.02.040, members of the Panel may be reappointed but
shall not serve more than eight consecutive years.

G.	The Panel shall, by majority vote, do each of the following:

1.	Annually appoint one of its members as chair and one of its members as vice-
chair;

2.	Approve bylaws to facilitate the proper functioning of the Panel;

3.	Establish a regular time and place of meeting. All meetings shall be noticed as
required by law and shall be scheduled in a way to allow for maximum input from
the public. Minutes for each meeting shall be recorded, kept, and maintained;
and

4.	Publish an annual report that includes the following:

a.	recommendations on how to allocate the City’s general funds to reduce the
consumption of sugar sweetened beverages in Berkeley and to address the
results of such consumption;

b.	information, if available, concerning the impact of this Chapter on the public
health of the residents of the City; and

c.	any additional information that the Panel deems appropriate.

H.	Within 15 days of receipt of the publication of the Panel’s annual report, the City
Manager shall cause the report to be published on the City’s Internet website and to
be transmitted to the City Council and the Governing Board of the Berkeley Unified
School District.

7

I.	The City Council shall consider, but need not follow, the Panel’s recommendations
and shall annually inform the Panel as to the extent to which it has implemented the
Panel’s recommendations.

Section 7.72.100 Increase Appropriations Limits

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB, the appropriation limit for the City is
increased by the aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this tax for each of the four
fiscal years from 2015-16 through 2018-19.

Section 7.72.110 Amendment

The City Council, without a vote of the people, may, either permanently or temporarily,
increase the dollar amount of the threshold for the small-business exemption in Section
7.72.020.B.

Section 4. Duration.

This Ordinance shall be effective on January 1, 2015. The last effective date of this
Ordinance shall be December 31, 2026, and it shall terminate as of January 1, 2027.

Section 5. Severability.

The People of the City of Berkeley hereby declare that they would have adopted each
section, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, words, or portions of
this Ordinance, or any application thereof, be declared invalid or unenforceable and, to
that end, the provisions of this Ordinance are severable. If any section, sentence,
clause, phrase, word, or portion of this Ordinance, or any application thereof in any
circumstance, is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections, sentences, clauses, phrases, words, or
portions of this Ordinance, and applications thereof, shall nonetheless remain in full
force and effect.

Section 6. Municipal Affair.

A.	The People of the City of Berkeley hereby declare that the taxation of the privilege of
distributing sugar-sweetened beverage products and that the public health impact of
sugar-sweetened beverage products separately and together constitute municipal
affairs.

B.	The People of the City of Berkeley hereby further declare their desire for this
measure to coexist with any similar tax adopted at the county or state levels.

Section 7. California Environmental Quality Act Requirements.

This Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act, Public
Resources Code section 21000 et seq., including without limitation Public Resources
Code section 21065, CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4) and 15061(b)(3), as it can

8

be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity authorized herein may
have a significant effect on the environment and pursuant to Public Resources Code
section 21080, subdivision (b)(8) and CEQA Guidelines section 15273 as the approval
of government revenues to fund existing services.

9