RESOLUTION 2014-041

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN PABLO CALLING FOR
AND GIVING NOTICE OF A JUNE 3, 2014 ELECTION ON A PROPOSED BALLOT
MEASURE SEEKING VOTER APPROVAL OF A ONE-QUARTER OF ONE PERCENT
(0.25%) TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX TO FUND EMERGENCY MEDICAL
SERVICES AT SAN PABLO FIRE STATION #70, ESTABLISHING THE POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES FOR SUCH AN ELECTION AND REQUESTING THAT THE COUNTY
OF CONTRA COSTA CONDUCT SUCH AN ELECTION

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to place a Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax
Ordinance, as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 and attached
hereto as Exhibit A, as a measure before the voters at the June 3, 2014 special election.
Such tax shall be a special tax, the revenues of which shall only be used to fund
Emergency Medical Services at Fire Station #70 in the City of San Pablo; should the
County close Station 70, the revenues shall be used only to provide alternative EMS
services for the City of San Pablo

WHEREAS, City of San Pablo residents are serviced by the Contra Costa County
Fire Protection District (ConFire) for their emergency medical and fire protection services.
ConFire is currently in a financial crisis. Since 2008, it has seen a $32 million decline in
property tax revenue. In January 2012, the County Board of Supervisors approved a Fire
Station Closure Plan for County Fire Stations which has closed five (5) fire stations to
date (23 Engine Companies Remain). In November, 2012, a County-wide parcel tax
measure (Measure Q) failed to garner sufficient 2/3rds vote to pass a $75.00 per
residential parcel tax to fund Fire and EMS Services Countywide ($17 million annually if
adopted; $68 million over 4 years). ConFire is therefore facing insolvency in FY 2017,
with a structural deficit of six million dollars to ten million dollars each year;

WHEREAS, there is only one county fire station in the City of San Pablo, Fire
Station #70 in downtown San Pablo. Station 70 provides San Pablo with both fire and
emergency medical services. Due to mutual aid agreements, Station 70 also provides
service to seven other county unincorporated areas -- (i) Bayview, (ii) Miflin-Barranca,
(iii) North Richmond, (iv) Montalvin Manor, (v) Rollingwood, (vi) Tara Hills, and
(vii) portions of El Sobrante/East Richmond Heights; and to the City of Richmond through
automatic aid agreements;

WHEREAS, the current annual operating expenses required to fund Fire Station
70 amount to $2.8 million per year. The City of San Pablo contributes only approximately
$811,000 annually;

WHEREAS, San Pablo's Station 70 is the busiest fire station in Contra Costa
County. In 2012, for example, Station 70 responded to a total of 3,672 incidents in its
service area Of that total, 3,147, or 86%, were San Pablo calls. 82.5% of the service
calls in San Pablo were EMS calls for Emergency Medical Services. Due to this
overwhelming need for emergency medical services for its residents, and the extremely

Resolution 2014-041

Page 1

high cost of fire engines responding not to fire calls, but to EMS calls in the City of San
Pablo, the City Council finds that it is essential for the public health, safety and welfare
for City residents that a funding method be found to support and ensure EMS response
in the City of San Pablo through smaller EMS vehicle service instead of more expensive
fire vehicles, particularly in light of the threatened impending closure of Doctor’s Medical
Center;

WHEREAS, all funds from this local revenue measure are required to stay in San
Pablo to provide EMS services and cannot be taken by the State. Fiscal accountability
will be ensured by requiring independent citizens’ oversight, mandatory financial audits,
and yearly reports to the community;

WHEREAS, it is desired that the Special Municipal Election be consolidated with
the elections to be held on June 3, 2014;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN PABLO DOES
RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Call for Election

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2, Government Code
Section 53724, and Elections Code Section 9222, the City Council of the City of San
Pablo hereby calls an election at which it shall submit to the qualified voters of the City a
measure that, if approved, would adopt a special transactions and use tax, as authorized
by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91. This measure shall be designated by
letter by the Contra Costa County Elections Department. Pursuant to Election Code
Section 10400 et seq., the election for this measure shall be consolidated with the
established election to be conducted on June 3, 2014.

Section 2. Ballot Language

The question to be presented to the voters shall be as follows:

“To ensure continued and adequate Emergency Medical Services for San
Pablo residents, given the recent threat that County Fire Station #70, which
is located in San Pablo, may be downsized or closed and given that Station
70 presently provides 100% of the EMS services for all San Pablo residents,
shall San Pablo increase its sales tax by one-quarter percent to fund the
creation of an Emergency Medical Services Squad, with mandatory audits,
community oversight, and annual reporting.’’

This question requires the approval of two-thirds of qualified electors casting votes.

Resolution 2014-041

Page 2

Section 3. Proposed Ordinance

The ordinance authorizing the special tax to be approved by the voters is as set
forth in Exhibit A hereto. The City Council hereby approves the ordinance, the form
thereof, and its submission to the voters of the City at the June 3, 2014 election, as
required by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91. The Ordinance specifies that
the rate of the transactions tax shall be one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the
City. It specifies that the rate of the use tax shall be one-quarter of one percent (0.25%)
of the sales price of tangible personal property stored, used or otherwise consumed in
the City. The State Board of Equalization shall collect the tax from retailers subject to the
tax and remit the funds to the City.

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Contra Costa is requested to order the
County Clerk to set forth in the voter information portion of all sample ballots to be mailed
to the qualified electors of the City the full text of the Ordinance and to mail with the
sample ballots to the electors printed copies of the full text of the Ordinance, together with
the primary arguments for and against the measure, and to provide absent voter ballots
for the election for use by qualified electors of the City who are entitled thereto in the
manner provided by law.

Section 4. Request to Consolidate, Conduct Election and Canvass Returns

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Contra Costa is hereby requested to
authorize the County Clerk to render all services necessary and proper for the conduct of
the election. Pursuant to California Elections Code section 10403, the City Counc.
hereby requests that the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors consolidate the
election called by this Resolution with the election to be conducted on June 3, 2014 and
order the election to be conducted by the Registrar of Voters. The Contra Costa County
Elections department is authorized to canvass the returns of the special election, and the
election shall be held in all respects as only one election.

The City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to work with the County
Elections Division as needed in order to properly and lawfully conduct the election. The
ballots to be used in the election shall be in form and content as required by law. The
County Elections Division is authorized to canvass the returns of the election. In all
particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as
provided by law for holding municipal elections.

Section 5. Time and Place of Election

The polls for the election shall be open at 7:00 a.m. on the day of the election and
shall remain open continuously from that time until 8:00 p.m. that same day, when the
polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of the Elections Code of the
State of California. The notice of the time and place of holding the election is hereby given,
and the City Clerk is authorized to give further notice of the election, as required by law.

Resolution 2014-041

Page 3

Section 6. Publication of Measure

The City Clerk is hereby directed to cause notice of the measure to be published
once in accordance with Section 12111 of the Elections Code.

Section 7. Submission of Ballot Arguments

(a) The last day for submission of arguments for or against the measure shall be
by 5:00 pm on March 14, 2014. The direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred
(300) words, and shall not be signed by more than five (5) persons. The City Council does
not adopt the provisions of Elections Code Section 9285(a); there shall be no rebuttal
arguments.

Section 8. Council Preparation of Argument In Support of Measure

Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9282, the City Council will designate
two Councilmembers to prepare a written argument in favor of the proposed measure,
not to exceed three hundred (300) words. At the discretion of such two councilmembers,
the argument may also be signed by other members of the City Council, bona fide
associations of citizens, or by individual voters who are eligible to vote.

Section 9. Impartial Analysis

Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9280, the City Council hereby
directs the City Clerk to transmit a certified copy of the measure to the City Attorney. The
C4y Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure, not to exceed 500 words
in length, showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and the operation of the
measure, and transmit the impartial analysis to the Elections Division by March 14, 2014.

Section 10. Implementation.

The City Manager and City Clerk, or his or her designee, are authorized and
directed, on behalf of the City, to take all actions necessary to place the measure on the
ballot and to cause the ordinance or measure to be printed, including but not limited to
executing documents and appropriating the necessary funds to pay the City’s cost of
placing the measure on the ballot. The city will reimburse the county for the actual cost
incurred by the county elections official in conducting the election upon receipt of a bill
stating the amount due as determined by the elections official. The City Clerk is directed
to file certified copies of this Resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the County
Clerk of the County of Contra Costa, and the Registrar of Voters, together with the
attached ballot measure.

Section 11. Jurisdictional Boundaries

The jurisdictional boundaries of the City of San Pablo have not changed since the last
general municipal election.

Section 12. CEQA

The approval of this Resolution to place on the ballot a special tax that will provide
funding for an EMS squad to use smaller EMS vehicles to respond to EMS calls in the
City of San Pablo, as opposed to more expensive, larger fire rigs, is exempt from the
California Environmental Quality Act under CEQA Guidelines § 15061 (b)(3), in that it can

Resolution 2014-041

Page 4

be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a
significant effect on the environment. ConFire wilt respond to the same medical
emergencies as before. The funds raised will be restricted to funding an EMS squad which
will respond to emergency medical calls in the City via smaller EMS vehicles rather than
larger fire vehicles that get worse gas mileage and emit more emissions. In addition, the
activity is not a project under CEQA pursuant to Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5):
Organizational or administrative activities of governments that will not result in direct or
indirect physical changes in the environment. The City Manager is directed to ensure
that a notice of exemption is filed immediately with the County Clerk.

Section 13. Passage of this Resolution.

This tax is a special tax requiring the approval of two-thirds of qualified electors
casting votes. This Resolution, including the submission of the proposed Ordinance
(attached as Exhibit A) must be approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the City
Council. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage and
adoption by the People.

Adopted the 3rd day of March, 2014, by the following vote to wit:

AYES:	COUNC1LMEMBERS

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBERS

ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBERS

ABSTAIN:	COUNCILMEMBERS

Valdez, Kinney Chao Rothberg and Morris

None

Calloway

None

I hereby certify that the foregoing Is a full, true

'	■	a	m	m	■	•	•	t	I	a

Rf .0 ut on 2014 041

Rage 5

ORDINANCE 2014-

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAN PABLO IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX FOR EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Recitals

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to place a Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax
Ordinance, as authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 and attached
hereto as Exhibit A, as a measure before the voters at the June 3, 2014 special election
Such tax shall be a special tax, the revenues of which shall only be used to fund
Emergency Medical Services at Fire Station #70 in the City of San Pablo; should the
County close Station 70, the revenues shall be used only to provide alternative EMS
services for the City of San Pablo;

WHEREAS, City of San Pablo residents are serviced by the Contra Costa County
Fire Protection District (ConFire) for their emergency medical and fire protection services.
ConFire is currently in a financial crisis. Since 2008, it has seen a $32 million decline in
property tax revenue. In January 2012, the County Board of Supervisors approved a Fire
Station Closure Plan for County Fire Stations which has closed five (5) fire stations to
date (23 Engine Companies Remain). In November, 2012, a County-wide parcel tax
measure (Measure Q) failed to garner sufficient 2/3rds vote to pass a $75.00 per
residential parcel tax to fund Fire and EMS Services Countywide ($17 million annually if
adopted; $68 million over 4 years). ConFire is therefore facing insolvency in FY 2017,
with a structural deficit of six million dollars to ten million dollars each year;

WHEREAS, there is only one county fire station in the City of San Pablo, Fire
Station 70 in downtown San Pablo. Station 70 provides San Pablo with both fire and
emergency medical services. Due to mutual aid agreements, Station 70 also provides
service to seven other county unincorporated areas - (i) Bayview, (ii) Miflin-Barranca,
(iii) North Richmond, (iv) Montalvin Manor, (v) Rollingwood, (vi) Tara Hills, and (vii)
portions of El Sobrante/East Richmond Heights; and to the City of Richmond through
automatic aid agreements;

WHEREAS, the current annual operating expenses required to fund Fire Station 70
amount to $2.8 million per year. The City of San Pablo contributes only approximately
$811,000 annually^

WHEREAS, San Pablo’s Station 70 is the busiest fire station in Contra Costa
County. In 2012, for example, Station 70 responded to a total of 3 672 'nc'dents in its
service area. Of that total, 3,147, or 86%, were San Pablo calls. 82.5% of the service
calls in San Pablo were EMS calls for Emergency Medical Services. Due to this
overwhelming need for emergency medical services for its residents, and the extremely

Ordinance 2014-

EXHIBIT A

Page 1

Iiiyli cost of fire engines responding not to fire calls, but to EMS calls in the City of San
Pablo, the City Council finds that it is essential for the public health, safety and welfare
for City residents that a funding method be found to support and ensure EMS response
in the City of San Pablo through smaller EMS vehicles instead of more expensive fire
vehicles, particularly in light of the threatened impending closure of Doctor’s Medical
Center;

WHEREAS, all funds from this local revenue measure are required to stay in San
Pablo to provide EMS services and cannot be taken by the State. Fiscal accountability
will be ensured by requiring independent citizens' oversight, mandatory financial audits,
and yearly reports to the community;

WHEREAS, the tax, if approved, would be imposed on the sale of tangible
personal property and the storage, use, or other consumption of such property The tax
revenue would be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City.

WHEREAS, the transactions and use tax to be submitted to the voters is a special
tax that may only be used for the purposes specified in the measure. It shall be approved
if the measure receives at least a two-thirds vote at a Special Munic pal Election to be
consolidated with the general election to be held on June 3, 2014.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN PABLO DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Chapter 3.26 is hereby added to the San Pablo Municipal Code to
read as follows:

“3.26.010. Title. This ordinance shall be known as the City of San Pablo
Emergency Medical Services Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of San
Pablo hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City.

3.26.020. Operative date. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance,
the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

3.26.030. Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this
tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California

Ordinance 2014-

Page 2

insofar as those piovisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Pail 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board
of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutoiy and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost
of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden
of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.26.040. Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration
and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall
not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it
shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day
of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.26.050. Transactions tax rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of
the City at the rate of 0 25% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

3.26.060. Place of sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places
at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Ordinance 2014-

Page 3

3.26.070. Use tax rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City ot tangible personal property purchased from any retailer
on and after the operative dale of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in
said territory at the rate of 0.25% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.26.080. Adoption of provisions of state law. Except as otherwise provided in
this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted
and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.26.090. Limitations on adoption of State law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration
or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the said provision of that code.

Ordinance 2014-

Page 4

4 In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711,6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue arid Taxation Code.

B. The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

3.26.100. Permit not required. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit
shall not be required by this chapter.

3.26.110. Exemptions and exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to
a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee
at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall
be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her princ'pal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

Ordinance 2014-

Page 5

4.	A lease of tangible personal properly which is a continuing sale
of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract oi lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under
a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property
for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

Ordinance 2014-

Page 6

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City 01
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the
retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary,
or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following, vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses
the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax pa.d to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.26.120. Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of
this chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales
and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this chapter,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this chapter.

3.26.130. Enjoining collection forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court
against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.26.140. Expenditure Plan. Audit. Oversight, Reporting. Revenue and
Taxation Code section 7285.91 requires that this ordinance include "an expenditure plan
describing the specific projects for which the revenues from the tax may be expended.”
All revenue from the tax shall be restricted revenue used solely to fund Emergency
Medical Services for the City of San Pablo. It has been estimated that the tax will
generate approximately $550,000 annually. The City intends to negotiate an agreement
with the Fire Protection District under which City will remit payment to the District on an
agreed-upon basis in order to help fund the cost of providing a supplemental EMS squad
at Station 70. Payments will be made on a regular basis on a frequency to be determined
by city and county fire.

Ordinance 2014-

Page 7

The city's independent auditors shall complete a report reviewing the collection,
management and expenditure of revenue from the tax levied by this chapter. Additionally,
there shall be a committee consisting of no fewer than five seats (if sufficient applications
are received) to review and report on the receipt of revenue and expenditure of funds
from the tax authorized by this chapter. The committee members shall be either San
Pablo residents or representatives of San Pablo businesses; the City Council may utilize
the same oversight committee established to review and report on the Measure Q
Transactions and Use Tax approved in 2012. The committee’s report and
recommendations shall be completed by a date to allow for it to be considered as part of
each annual budget process, commencing at least one full year after the tax revenue is
first received. The committee’s report and recommendations shall be a matter of public
record and shall be considered and reported by the City Council at a public meeting.

3.26.150. Severability. If any sections, subsections, sentences, clauses,
phrases or portions of this chapter are for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The
People hereby declare that they would have passed this and each section, subsection,
phrase or clause of this ordinance whether or not any one or more sections, subsections,
phrases or clauses may be declared invalid or unconstitutional on their face or as applied.

3.26.160. Effective date. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of
the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately upon approval by
the voters.”

Section 2: The People of San Pablo find that all Recitals are true and correct and
are incorporated herein by reference.

Section 3: The approval of this special tax that will provide funding for an EMS
squad to use smaller EMS vehicles to respond to EMS calls in the City of San Pablo, as
opposed to more expensive, larger fire rigs, is exempt from the California Environmental
Quality Act under CEQA Guidelines § 15061(b)(3), in that it can be seen with certainty
that there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a significant effect on the
environment. ConFire will respond to the same medical emergencies as before. The
funds raised will be restricted to funding an EMS squad which will respond to emergency
medical calls in the City via smaller EMS vehicles rather than larger fire vehicles that get
worse gas mileage and emit more emissions. In addition, the activity is not a project under
CEQA pursuant to Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5): Organizational or administrative
activities of governments that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the
environment. The City Manager is directed to ensure that a notice of exemption is filed
immediately with the County Clerk.

ATTEST;	APPROVED:

Ted J. Denney, City Clerk

Paul V. Morris, Mayor

Ordinance 2014-

Page 8

This Ordinance was introduced by the City Council on February 18, 2014, adopted

by the City Council on______,	2014, and submitted to the People of the City of San

Pablo at the June 3, 2014 special election. It was approved by the following vote of the
People:

YES:

NO:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

The Ordinance was thereby adopted by of the voters at the June 3, 2014, election
and took effect upon adoption of a resolution declaring the results of the election at a
regular meeting of the City Council held on____,	2014,	by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of an ordinance
duly and regularly adopted by the People of the City of San Pablo, California.

Ted J. Denney, City Clerk

Ordinance 2014-

Page 9