MEASURE R
CITY OF EL CERRITO

To continue to protect/ maintain City services, including
fire prevention/ emergency services; emergency response
times; neighborhood police patrols; firefighter/ police
staffing; crime prevention/ investigation resources; after-
school programs; library hours/ programs; senior services;
open space, parks, paths/ playfields; other general
City services, shall El Cerrito extend the existing voter-
approved sales tax and set the future rate at one cent for
12 years, with citizens’ oversight, annual audits, and all
funds staying local, none to Sacramento?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE R

The City Council of the City of El Cerrito has placed
Measure R on the ballot to ask the City’s voters to approve
a temporary one percent (1.00%) transactions and use tax.
The proposed tax would add a penny to the price of an
item that costs a dollar (if the item is normally subject to
sales tax).

Because Measure R does not limit the use of tax revenue,
it is a “general tax,” not a “special tax” that restricts the
funds to specific purposes. Therefore, the City may use
the funds for any legitimate governmental purpose. The
ballot question approved by the City Council and the
City’s adopted two-year budget identify priorities for use
of the revenue from the tax, if approved by the voters: fire
prevention and emergency services; emergency response
times; neighborhood police patrols; firefighter and police
staffing; crime prevention and investigation resources;
after-school programs; library support; senior services;
open space, parks, paths and playfields; and increasing
the City’s emergency reserves.

The tax would terminate automatically 12 years after
collection begins, unless extended by the voters.

The Measure requires the City's independent auditors
to prepare annually a publicly available report on the
collection, management and expenditure of revenue
from the tax. Additionally, it requires the City’s Financial
Advisory Board (“FAB”) to review that report as part of its
review of the annual audit of the City’s finances.

Currently, the cumulative tax on retail sales in El Cerrito
is 9.50% of the purchase price. The City’s share is only
approximately 1.75% of that 9.50%.

Technically, the proposed measure is a “transactions and
use tax.” A transactions and use tax is levied on the same
purchases as the existing sales tax, with some minor
exceptions. Retailers and other businesses collect the tax
at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of
Equalization, which administers the tax. The State Board
of Equalization then transmits the funds collected to the
City.

In 2010, City voters approved a 0.50% transactions and

use tax to support general municipal services (Measure
R). The proposed Measure would extend Measure R and
set the rate at 1%. The total sales tax rate in El Cerrito
would be 10%. Revenue from the tax would go to the City’s
general fund and be available to support the full range of
municipal services.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve a one-cent transactions
and use (“sales”) tax for 12 years, with annual audits and
review by the FAB. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax.
Measure R would be approved if it received a simple
majority of “Yes” votes.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure
R. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please
call the City Clerk’s office at (510) 215-4305 or cmorse@
ci.el-cerrito.ca.us and a copy will be mailed at no cost to
you.

DATED: August 4, 2014
Sky Woodruff, City Attorney

CC 055-017

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE R

Keep our money in El Cerrito -- protect our quality of life INUIIt! riieu'
and essential police and fire services we all rely on -Vote
YES on R!

Stop State Raids! El Cerrito residents pride themselves on
exercising local control over local funds, for local needs.

Extending existing, voter-approved funding at the one cent
sales tax rate will continue to maintain the services we
need, while keeping all funds local and ensuring that NO
funds can be taken by Sacramento.

Did you know that El Cerrito property crimes have
increased? Voting YES on R keeps El Cerrito a safe place
to live, work and raise a family - and our goal of a fully-
staffed police force will prevent crimes from getting worse!

YES on R maintains public safety and police services,
neighborhood patrols, crime prevention programs, and
rapid 9-1-1 response times

YES on R maintains firefighters, fire protection and
emergency medical services

YES on R maintains earthquake and disaster preparedness
programs

YES on R maintains after-school programs for children
and teens

YES on R maintains and improves city parks, playfields,
paths and open spaces

All Measure R money must be spent on our LOCAL
services and the State can’t touch it! YES on R protects
our services by maintaining El Cerrito’s financial stability
and viability.

YES on R includes strong fiscal accountability, including
required oversight by the El Cerrito Financial Advisory
Board, mandatory financial audits, and yearly reports to
the community that continue to ensure voter-approved
funds are spent appropriately.

Join the entire City Council, the El Cerrito Police
Association, firefighters, local business owners, and
community leaders — vote YES on R to protect and
maintain El Cerrito’s high-quality services with funds that
can’t be taken by the State.

Make the right choice for your family and for El Cerrito -
Vote Yes on R!

For information: KeepEICerritoSafe.com
Janet Abelson, El Cerrito Mayor

Manish Doshi, Chair, El Cerrito Parks & Recreation

Commission/EI Cerrito Futbol Club

El Cerrito Police Employee Association, David Hartung,

Vice President

Ann Cheng, Former El Cerrito Mayor

Firefighters Local 1230 (El Cerrito), David Ciappara,

Fire Captain/Paramedic, El Cerrito Fire Department
Representative

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE R

FULL TEXT OF
MEASURE R

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF EL CERRITO
AMENDING AND RESTATING CHAPTER 4.62 OF THE
MUNICIPAL CODE TO EXTEND AND INCREASE AT
THE ONE CENT RATE A TRANSACTIONS AND USE
TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, the State began shifting property tax
from local governments in 1992 and these “takes” continue,
including about $1.8 million annually from El Cerrito from
a portion of the City’s property tax to the Educational
Revenue Augmentation Fund that could otherwise be
used for essential City services; and

WHEREAS, since 1993, El Cerrito has been required
by State legislation to pay for booking fees and property tax
administration, another loss of general fund revenues that
would otherwise be available for essential City services;
and

WHEREAS, since 2003, the State has taken an
additional $3 million of Redevelopment Agency funds
that could have been spent on local projects such as a
library, public safety building, senior center or economic
development programs; and

WHEREAS, the State has eliminated the City of El
Cerrito Redevelopment Agency resulting in a loss of over
$1 million annually to the City and greatly decreased the
City’s ability to promote economic development and retail
growth along San Pablo Avenue; and

WHEREAS, the recession, continued State
takeaways, falling home values, store relocations and
strained revenues could erode the high quality of service
in the City of El Cerrito and the accomplishments that have
taken years to develop; and

WHEREAS, El Cerrito has seen a reduction in sales
tax revenue resulting from the closure of the Target Store,
the Mitsubishi car dealership, the Guitar Center and OSH
and an overall decline in consumer spending; and

WHEREAS, the City has already made cuts and
reductions to balance the FY 2015 budget and operate as
efficiently as possible; and

WHEREAS, to help balance the budget, approximately
15% of authorized positions are eliminated or unfilled,
including police officers, firefighters, maintenance and
parks and recreation staff; and

WHEREAS, City’s employees have agreed to defer
or forego compensation adjustments and to increase their
contributions to offset increased benefit costs to help
maintain the current level of service; and

WHEREAS, while the City has made significant
progress in reducing certain crimes in El Cerrito, property
crimes continue to increase and the current vacancies in

the Police Department could result in an overall increase
in the crime rate; and

WHEREAS, supporting the services that make El
Cerrito a great community are important to our residents’
quality of life; and

WHEREAS, El Cerrito needs local control over local
funds, for local needs; and

WHEREAS, extending existing, voter-approved
funding at the one cent sales tax rate will continue to
address city service and delivery needs; and

WHEREAS, additional funding will help maintain
current levels of fire and police (public safety) services,
including neighborhood patrols, crime prevention
programs, and rapid 9-1-1 response times; and

WHEREAS, property crimes have increased in El
Cerrito and we desire a fully-staffed police force to prevent
crime from getting worse; and

WHEREAS, local funding would help maintain and
protect city services for children and teens -including pre-
school and after-school programs; and

WHEREAS, the City wishes to continue to address
service priorities that the public has identified such as police
and fire services, earthquake and disaster preparedness
programs, and maintaining city parks, paths, playfields
and open spaces; and

WHEREAS, any local funding would continue to
require citizens’ oversight, mandatory financial audits, and
yearly reporting to the community to continue to ensure
that all voter-approved funds are spent as promised; and

WHEREAS, at its June 17, 2014 meeting, the City
Council adopted a budget for Fiscal Year 2015 and 2016
that recognizes the need for additional revenue to maintain
and preserve the level of services and adequate reserves
desired by residents of the City; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has concluded that
all of the information presented indicates that, to obtain
the revenue necessary to maintain and preserve service
levels, the Council should call an election to ask the voters
of the City to approve a 12-year local transactions and use
tax (“sales tax”), the revenue from which could be used to
support general municipal services; and

WHEREAS, the tax to be submitted to the voters, if
approved, would be imposed on the sale of tangible personal
property and the storage, use, or other consumption of
such property; the tax rate would be one percent (1.0%) of
the sales price of the property; the tax revenue would be
collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to
the City; the tax would be in effect for 12 years, and would
then expire automatically, unless extended by the voters;
and the tax shall be approved if the measure receives at
least a simple majority vote of affirmative votes;

WHEREAS, at the November 4, 2010 election,
the voters of the City approved Measure R, a 0.5%
transactions and use tax, to be in effect for eight years and

CC 055-019

sunset in 2018. Measure R was codified as Chapter 4.62
of the El Cerrito Municipal Code. This ordinance amends
and restates Chapter 4.62 to extend the existing tax for 12
years, until March 31, 2027, and adjust the rate to 1%.

NOW THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY
OF EL CERRITO DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Incorporation of Recitals. The People of
El Cerrito find that all Recitals are true and correct and are
incorporated herein by reference.

SECTION 2. Amendment of Municipal Code. Chapter
4.62 of the El Cerrito Municipal Code is hereby amended
and restated to read as follows:

4.62.010-Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the El Cerrito
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The city of El
Cerrito hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

4.62.020 - Operative Date.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after
the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption
being as set forth below.

4.62.030 - Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax
in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code and Sections
7285.9, 7293, and 7294 of Part 1.7 of Division
2 which authorize the City to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of
the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election called for
that purpose.

B. To adopt a retail transactions and use tax
ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State
of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C. To adopt a retail transactions and use tax
ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to,
and requires the least possible deviation from, the
existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State
Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be,
to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue j
and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting i)
the transactions and use taxes, and at the same 1
time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon: ;
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of - 1
this ordinance.

4.62.040 - Contract With State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract |
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all j
functions incident to the administration and operation of i
this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if
the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless,
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract.

4.62.050 - Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property
at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the<
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one percent *
(1.0%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of j
all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory
on and after the operative date of this ordinance.	j

4.62.060 - Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales
are consummated at the place of business of the retailer ,
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered
by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination
or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state "
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shalH
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place ;
to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than ■
one place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the >
State Board of Equalization.

4.62.070 - Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,,
use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the<
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one percent
(1.0%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to
which delivery is made.

4.62.080 - Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions:
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,

all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

4.62.090 - Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this
City shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of
the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State
Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would
require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not
necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State
of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this
tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such
sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject
to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible
personal property which would
not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that
code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797
or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word
“State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business
in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition

of that phrase in Section 6203.

4.62.100 - Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

4.62.110 - Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of
any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts
from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property,
other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the county
in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the
City which is shipped to a point outside
the City, pursuant to the contract of sale,
by delivery to such point by the retailer
or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer
to a carrier for shipment to a consignee
at such point. For the purposes of this
paragraph, delivery to a point outside the
City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other
than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code by registration to an out-of-
City address and by a declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial
vehicles, by registration to a

CC 055-021

place of business out-of-City
and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from
that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller
is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this

ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in

this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased
by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons
or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided
in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption,
or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease

for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser
of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting
or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly,
at a place of business of the retailer in the City
or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under
the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall
also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses
the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person
of the property the storage, use or other consumption
of which is subject to the use tax.

4.62.120 - Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of
this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
ordinance.

4.62.130 - Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal
or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or
against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax
or any amount of tax required to be collected.

r

4.62.140 - Annual Audit.

By no later than December 31st of each year, the
city’s independent auditors shall complete a report shall
reviewing the collection, management and expenditure of
revenue from the tax levied by this Chapter. The report
shall be reviewed by the Financial Advisory Board as part
of its review of the annual audit.

4.62.150 - Amendments by City Council.

The following amendments to this Chapter must be
approved by the voters of the City: increasing the tax rate or
revising the methodology for calculating the tax such that a
tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions
and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless such
amendment occurs automatically by operation of Section
12); or extending the tax. The City Council may otherwise
amend this Chapter without submitting the amendment to
the voters for approval.

4.62.160 - Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance
shall expire on the twelfth anniversary of the operative
date (which is anticipated to be March 31, 2027).

SECTION 3.	Adjustment	of Appropriations Limit.

Pursuant to Article XII IB of the Constitution of the State
of California and applicable laws, the appropriations limit
for the City is hereby increased by the aggregate sum
authorized to be levied by this tax for fiscal year 2014-15
and each year thereafter.

SECTION 4.	Compliance	with the California

Environmental Quality Act. The approval of this ordinance
is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act
(Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14
Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). This
ordinance imposes a general tax that can be used for any
legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment
to any particular action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines
section 15378(b)(4), the ordinance is not a project within
the meaning of CEQA because it creates a government
funding mechanism that does not involve any commitment
to any specific project that may result in a potentially
significant physical impact on the environment. If revenue
from the tax were used for a purpose that would have either
such effect, the city would undertake the required CEQA
review for that particular project. Therefore, pursuant to
CEQA Guidelines section 15060, CEQA analysis is not
required.

SECTION 5. Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.

SECTION 6. Effective Date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of
the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
immediately.

SECTION 7. Relationship to Assembly Bill 1324 (2014).

The authority to adopt this ordinance depends in
part upon the passage and effectiveness of Assembly Bill
1324 (2014), which was pending approval in the California
Legislature at the time that this ordinance was submitted
to the voters of the City for approval. This ordinance shall
only become effective if AB 1324 is approved by the
Legislature and signed by the Governor. The operative
date of the tax approved by this ordinance shall relate to
the date of approval by the voters of the City regardless
of the effective date of AB 1324, as long as AB 1324 is
effective prior to the operative date.

The foregoing ordinance was approved by the
following vote of the People of the City of El Cerrito on
November 4, 2014:

YESES:

NOES:

The foregoing ordinance was adopted by
Declaration of the vote at the November 4, 2014
election by the City Council of the City of El Cerrito on
________________________________,	2014:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

APPROVED:

Janet Abelson, Mayor

ATTEST:

Cheryl Morse, City Clerk

CC 055-023