City of Santa Paula Sales Tax,
Measure F (November 2014)

Text of measure

Ballot question

The question on the ballot:13

Shall an ordinance be adopted imposing a one percent (1.0%) transactions and use
(sales) tax to fund police services, fire services and street repair and maintenance?13

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure F:m

Measure “F” proposes to raise revenue for specific city of Santa Paula purposes by
authorizing a one-percent (1%) sales tax within Santa Paula. The tax would be paid in
addition to current sales taxes and would be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as existing sales taxes.

State and local tax on retail sales in Santa Paula is currently 7.5 percent of the
purchase price. Measure “F” authorizes a one percent transactions and use tax,
increasing the total sales tax rate in Santa Paula from 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent. All
revenue from the tax increase proposed by Measure “F” would go to the City, and not
to the State or any other governmental entity. The total tax rate will decrease by one
percent in 2026 as a result of a sunset provision in the proposed measure.

Measure “F” would be a “special purpose tax.” All revenue generated from the
proposed sales tax would be legally restricted to use for certain police services, fire
services and street repair and maintenance. Fifty percent (50%) of the revenue will be
used for Police Services, twenty-five (25%) of the revenue will be used for Fire
Services, and twenty-five (25%) will be used for Street Repair and Maintenance. This
special sales tax revenue will not be available for use by the City to pay for general
City operations and services.

The tax ordinance requires independent auditors to report on the collection,
management and expenditure of tax revenue. The report is a public record and must
be considered by the City Council at a public meeting.

The measure requires approval of two-thirds of the votes cast to be adopted.

A “yes” vote on Measure “F” favors adopting a one percent sales tax.

A “no” vote on Measure “F” opposes adopting a one percent sales tax.111

Santa Paula City Attorney111

CITY OF SANTA PAULA
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY*
MEASURE “F”

Measure “F” proposes to raise revenue for specific city of Santa
Paula purposes by authorizing a one-percent (1 %) sales tax within
Santa Paula. The tax would be paid in addition to current sales
taxes and would be collected at the same time and in the same
manner as existing sales taxes.

State and local tax on retail sales in Santa Paula is currently 7.5
percent of the purchase price. Measure “F” authorizes a one percent
transactions and use tax, increasing the total sales tax rate in Santa
Paula from 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent. All revenue from the tax
increase proposed by Measure “F” would go to the City, and not to
the State or any other governmental entity. The total tax rate will
decrease by one percent in 2026 as a result of a sunset provision in
the proposed measure.

Measure “F” would be a “special purpose tax.” All revenue
generated from the proposed sales tax would be legally restricted to
use for certain police services, fire services and street repair and
maintenance. Fifty percent (50%) of the revenue will be used for
Police Services, twenty-five (25%) of the revenue will be used for
Fire Services, and twenty-five (25%) will be used for Street Repair
and Maintenance. This special sales tax revenue will not be
available for use by the City to pay for general City operations and
services.

The tax ordinance requires independent auditors to report on the
collection, management and expenditure of tax revenue. The report
is a public record and must be considered by the City Council at a
public meeting.

The measure requires approval of two-thirds of the votes cast to be
adopted.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “F.” If you
desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the City
Clerk’s office at (805) 933-4208 and a copy will be mailed at no cost
to you.

A “yes” vote on Measure “F” favors adopting a one percent sales tax.

A “no” vote on Measure “F” opposes adopting a one percent sales
tax.

^Section 9280 of the California Elections Code requires the city attorney to prepare an
impartial analysis for each city measure appearing on the ballot.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “F”

The power of a penny, the power of Santa Paula residents.

Because of the early prisoner release program, many cities including
Santa Paula are experiencing a dramatic upswing in
crime/homicides and more felons are coming!

The Santa Paula Police Department is doing what they can, but they
need our help. They need more officers. Santa Paula Police
Department has less than 1 officer for every 1,000 citizens. This is
way below the average for any city.

This is no longer acceptable.

A Yes vote on Measure F will provide the financial resources to help
address this problem. Measure F is fair because all residents
contribute. Not just the property owners.

Visitors passing through Santa Paula will also contribute as they
spend their money at our local businesses.

Measure F requires that all money generated stays in Santa Paula
and can only be used for public safety and street repair.

Santa Paula residents are fed up with crime and lousy streets.
Citizens no longer feel safe in their own homes.

We deserve better!

Measure F is all about us. Let’s take back our beautiful city.

s/Steven McLean
Supporter

s/James A. Tovias
Supporter

s/Richard C. Cook
Supporter

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

56-108

N VE 083-013