County of
Del Norte
California

Sample Ballot

& Voter Information Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2014

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR
VOTE BY MAIL BALLOT ENCLOSED

THE LOCATION OF YOUR
POLLING PLACE

IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

• POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M. •

SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT

MARK YOUR CHOICES AND TAKE THEM TO YOUR POLLING PLACE ON ELECTION DAY



Visit us at our web site for election night results

www.co.del-norte.ca.us

LIBRARY DISTRICT

Board Member

Vote for no more than Two

DENNIS SUTTON

Incumbent/Business Owner

ANGELA STANLEY

Controller

DEAN VALERO

Law Librarian

ANGELA GLORE

MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO THE VOTERS

STATE

WATER BOND. FUNDING FOR

1 WATER QUALITY, SUPPLY,
TREATMENT, AND STORAGE
PROJECTS. Authorizes $7,545 billion in
general obligation bonds for state water supply
infrastructure projects, including surface and
groundwater storage, ecosystem and watershed
protection and restoration, and drinking water
protection. Fiscal Impact'. Increased
state bond costs averaging $360 million
annually over 40 years. Local
government savings for water-related
projects, likely averaging a couple
hundred million dollars annually over the
next few decades.__________________

YES

NO

STATE BUDGET. BUDGET

2 STABILIZATION ACCOUNT.

LEGISLATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Requires annual transfer
of state general fund revenues to budget stabilization
account. Requires half the revenues be used to repay
state debts. Limits use of remaining funds to
emergencies or budget deficits. Fiscal Impact: Long-
term state savings from faster payment of existing
debts. Different levels of state budget
reserves, depending on economy and
decisions by elected officials. Smaller
local reserves for some school districts.

YES

NO

payments ($10 million) from Indian tribes to state and local governments to address costs related to the operation of a new casino.	YES
	NO 4b
COUNTY	
Shall Del Norte County Ordinance No.  C 2014-009 be approved? If approved, this ordinance will impose a County-wide	
of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) for a period of seven (7) years and require that all revenues be spent for the specific purpose of funding the Del Norte County Fairgrounds.	YES
	NO 4b

INDIAN GAMING COMPACTS.
REFERENDUM. A “Yes" vote approves,
■O and a “No” vote rejects, tribal gaming
compacts between the state and the
North Fork Rancheria of Mono Indians and the Wiyot
Tribe. Fiscal Impact: One-time payments ($16 million
to $35 million) and for 20 years annual

CA08-2-B1

VOTE BOTH SIDES

08SB2BB

LOCAL MEASURE F BALLOTTEXT

"Shall Del Norte County Ordinance No. 2014-009 be approved? If
approved, this ordinance will impose a County-wide special sales
tax at the rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) for a period
of seven (7) years and require that all revenues be spent for the
specific purpose of funding the Del Norte County Fairgrounds."

RESOLUTION NO. 2014-027

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS FOR THE
COUNTY OF DEL NORTE, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AUTHORIZING
AN ELECTION TO BE CONSOLIDATED WITH THE NOVEMBER
4,2014 GENERAL ELECTION FOR THE PURPOSE OF
SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS OF DEL NORTE COUNTY
ORDINANCE NO. 2014-009, IMPOSING A 0.25% TRANSACTIONS
(SALES) AND USE TAX FOR SEVEN (7) YEARS FOR THE
PURPOSE OF FUNDING THE DEL NORTE COUNTY
FAIRGROUNDS.

WHEREAS, subparagraph (d) of Section 2 of Article XIIIC of the
California Constitution provides that no local government may
impose, extend, or increase any special tax unless and until that
tax is submitted to the electorate and approved by a two-thirds vote;

WHEREAS, Section 53721 of the Government Code provides that
all taxes are either special taxes or general taxes, and that special
taxes are taxes imposed for specific purposes;

WHEREAS, Section 53722 of the Government Code provides that
no local government may impose any special tax unless and until
such special tax is submitted to the electorate of the local government
and approved by a two-thirds vote of the voters voting in an election
on the issue;

WHEREAS, Section 53724 of the Government Code requires that
any such special tax shall be proposed by an ordinance or resolution
of the legislative body of the local government and that said ordinance
or resolution proposing such tax shall include the type of tax and
rate of tax to be levied, the method of collection, the date upon
which an election shall be held on the issue, and if a special tax,
the purpose or service for which its imposition is sought;

WHEREAS, Section 7285 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
provides that the board of supervisors of any county may levy,
increase, or extend a transactions (sales) and use tax for purposes
at a rate of 0.125 percent or a multiple thereof if the ordinance
proposing the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members
of the board of supervisors and the tax is approved by a majority
vote of the qualified voters of the county voting in an election on
the issued; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Del Norte,
State of California, desires to submit the proposed Ordinance No.
2014-009, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit A and is incorporated
by this reference, to the voters for a decision on whether it should
be enacted or rejected;

WHEREAS, the proposed Ordinance meets the requirement of
Section 53724 and, if the voters of Del Norte County approve the
same by a majority vote, will impose a transactions (sales) and use
tax at a rate of 0.25% within the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of Del Norte County and require all funds generated as
result of the tax to be spent for the specific purpose stated, to fund
the Del Norte County Fairgrounds; and

WHEREAS, in compliance with the statutory provisions referenced
above, the Board of Supervisors hereby proposes that the voters of
Del Norte County now be provided the opportunity to enact or reject
Ordinance No. 2014-009.

NOWJHEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Supervisors
of the County of Del Norte, State of California, pursuant to the
provisions of Elections Code Section 12001, hereby orders and
proclaims that the question of whether the proposed Ordinance No.
2014-009, attached hereto as Exhibit A, should be approved, adding
Chapter 3.07 to Title 3 of the Del Norte County Code to impose a
transactions (sales) and use tax at a rate of 0.25% within the
incorporated and unincorporated territories of Del Norte County for
the specific purpose of funding the Del Norte County Fairgrounds
with such tax to expire seven (7) years from the date of implementation,
shall be submitted to the voters of Del Norte County, consolidated
with the General Election on the 4th day of November 2014.

08504

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following measure be submitted
as a proposition on the ballot identified as Measure F, and that the
Registrar of Voters be, and hereby is, instructed to place the measure
on the ballot at said election in the following form:

“Shall Del Norte County Ordinance No. 2014-009 be approved? (If
approved, this Ordinance will impose a County-wide special sales
tax at the rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) for a period
of seven (7) years and require that all revenues be spent for the
specific purpose of funding the Del Norte County Fairgrounds.)"

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that if the Ordinance is enacted, the
transaction (sales) and use tax will be collected pursuant to the
requirements of Title 3, Chapter 3.07, of the Del Norte County Code.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the elections official conducting
the election shall publish a notice of the election in a newspaper of
general circulation within the County of Del Norte not later than fifty
(50) days prior to the election.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the cost of including the measure
and consolidating the election with the November 4, 2014 General
Election shall be paid by the County per Government Code Section

53724(b).

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a Proclamation of Election is
hereby issued for said election and the proposition is to be voted
on in accordance with the terms hereinabove stated.

APPROVED and ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Del Norte on the 24th day of June,
2014, by the following polled vote, which is no less than a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Board as required by Revenue and Taxation
Code Section 7285:

AYES:	Supervisors Gitlin, Hemmingsen, Finigan, McClure and Sullivan.

NOES:	None.

ABSENT: None.

ABSTAIN: None.

si David Finigan, Chair, Board of Supervisors

ATTEST:

si Antoinette Self, Deputy Clerk of the Board

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

s/ Gretchen Stuhr, County Counsel

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-009

AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS FOR THE
COUNTY OF DEL NORTE, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ADDING
CHAPTER 3.07 TO TITLE 3 OF THE DEL NORTE COUNTY CODE
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX FOR THE
PURPOSE OF FUNDING THE DEL NORTE COUNTY
FAIRGROUNDS FOR A PERIOD OF SEVEN (7) YEARS

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Del
Norte, State of California, does ordain as follows:

SECTION 1
TITLE 3 -REVENUE AND FINANCE

CHAPTER 3.07 - TRANSACTIONS (SALES! AND USE TAX FOR
THE DEL NORTE COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS

3.07.10 General Provisions.

A.	Title. This chapter will be known as the "Del Norte County
Fairgrounds Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance."

B.	Application. This chapter will be applicable in both the
incorporated and unincorporated areas of Del Norte County,
California (hereinafter "County").

C.	Findings. The Board of Supervisors hereby makes the
following findings:

a.	The Del Norte County Fairgrounds is owned by the
State of California and governed by the 41st District
Agricultural Association.

b.	In 2011, the State eliminated funding for county
fairgrounds and the reserves that have kept the Del
Norte County Fairgrounds afloat are expected to be
depleted in 2016.

c.	The Del Norte County Fairgrounds serves an
important role in our small, rural community by
providing a venue for community events, recreation,
expos, and exhibitions as well as hosting the annual
county fair.

d.	The County and the 41st District Agricultural
Association have worked together to form a new
special district (Del Norte County Fairgrounds
Recreation and Park District) to be the vehicle for a
new source of funding to keep the Del Norte County
Fairgrounds operational.

e.	The proposed source of revenue for the new special
district is a special sales tax of 0.25% (referred to
as a "transactions and use tax" per State law).

f.	This ordinance must be submitted to the voters and
affirmed by two-thirds of votes cast in an election to
become effective.

3.07.20 Operative Date.

The operative date of the transaction (sales) and use tax imposed
by this chapter is the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after adoption of the ordinance
adding this chapter.

3.07.30 Purpose.

This chapter is adopted to achieve the following purposes and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish the
purposes that are set forth in this section:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance
with the provision of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251)
of Division 2 and of Section 7285.5 of Part 1.7 of Division 2
of the California Revenue and Taxation Code that authorize
the County to adopt this chapter, and the tax will be operative
if a two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the lax at an election called
for that purpose;

B.	To enact a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and
Use tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code;

08505

C.	To enact a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization
in a manner that adopts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the state
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California Sales and use taxes; and

D.	To enact a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can
be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest
degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the
cost of collecting the transaction and use taxes, and at the
same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon each
person subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

3.07.40 Restricted Use of the Tax.

The transactions (sales) and use taxes collected under this chapter
can only be used for the following purpose: to fund the Del Norte
County Fairgrounds Recreation and Park District, specifically the
maintenance and operation of, and improvements to, the Del Norte
County Fairgrounds, including the presentment of the annual county
fair. The taxes collected under this chapter cannot be used for any
property other than the Del Norte County Fairgrounds. Any
administration fees imposed by the County are limited to one percent
(1%) of gross tax revenues received under this ordinance.

3.07.50 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax
is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of Del Norte County at the rate of one
quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this chapter.

3.07.60 Place of Sale.

For purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at
the place of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.07.70 Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the territory of Del Norte County of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date
of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said territory
at the rate of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the sale price
of the property. The sale price includes delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place
to which delivery is made.

3.07.80 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as
any provisions of this chapter may be inconsistent with Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing at Section 6001) of Division 2 of
the California Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.

3.07.90 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection
of Use Tax.

The following requirements will be adhered to in applying the provision
of Part 1 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code
to this chapter:

1.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as
the taxing agency, the name of this County will be substituted
therefor. The substitution, however, will not be made when:

a.	The word "state" is used as a part of the title of the
State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury
or the Constitution of the State of California;

b.	The result of that substitution would require action to
be taken by or against this county or any agency,
officer or employee thereof, rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation
of this chapter;

c.	In those sections, including but not limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would
be to:

i.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect
to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property
that would not otherwise be exempt from this
tax, which such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provision of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

ii.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject
to tax by the State under the provisions of
that Code.

d.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

2.	The word "county" will be substituted for the word "state" in
the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this state" in
Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

3.07.100 Permit Not Required

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, then an additional transactor's
permit is not required by this chapter.

3.07.110 Exemptions and Exclusions

A.	In addition to any other exemption or exclusion required by
law, there will be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax
or use tax imposed by the state of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from computation of the amount of
transactions tax imposed by this chapter, gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used
or consumed principally outside the County in which
the sale is made directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of the State of California,
the United States or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside of the County
which is shipped to a point outside the County,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by
the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee
at such point. For purposes of this paragraph, delivery
to a point outside the County will be satisfied:

i.	With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter I (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840)
of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-
of-County address and by declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating
that such address is, in fact, his or her principal
place of residence; and

08-506

08506

ii. With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-
County and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such properly, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For purposes of subsections (B)(3) and (B)(4) of this
section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property
will be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from computation of the amount of the

use tax imposed by this chapter, gross receipts from the

following storage, use or other consumption of tangible

personal property:

1.	Any sale that has been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	The sale of other than fuel or petroleum products
purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed
by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws
of the State of California, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for
a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of or the exercise of any right or power
over the tangible personal property arises under a lease
that constitutes a continuing purchase of such property
for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease that
was executed prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (C)(3) and (C)(4), the
storage, use or other consumption or the possession of
or exercise of any right or power over tangible personal
property will be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to
a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
part the contract of lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, regardless
of whether such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subsection (C)(7), a retailer engaged
in business in the County will not be required to collect
use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
County or participates within the County in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting
or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer in the County or through
any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary,
or person in the County under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the County" includes
any retailer of any of the following vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer will be required to collect use tax
from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle,

_______vessel, or aircraft at an address in the County.__________

D. Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a city or county imposing, or retailer
liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale
to the person of the property, the storage, use or other
consumption, which is subject to the use tax.

3.07.120 Enjoining of Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process
may issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the
State or the County, or against any officer of the State or the County,
to prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

3.07.130 Amendment of State Law.

All amendments to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code that are made subsequent to the effective date of this chapter
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, will automatically become a part
of this chapter, provided however, that no such amendment may
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter or
the duration thereof.

3.07.140 Termination of Transactions and Use Tax.

This chapter will remain in effect for seven (7) years from the operative
date and as of that date it is automatically repealed unless a later
ordinance is adopted prior to the date of termination that has the
effect of deleting or extending the termination date set forth herein.
Any ordinance extending this tax beyond the date of termination set
forth herein must be approved by a two thirds majority of voters
casting votes at an election called for such purpose.

3.07.150 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the County shall contract with the
California State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident
to the administration and operation of this chapter; provided that, if
the County has not contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative date, then the County shall so contract and
the operative date will be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such contract.

3.07.160 Severability.

If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, then the remainder of the chapter and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances will not be
affected thereby.

3.07.170 Effective Date.

This ordinance will take effect immediately upon its approval by a
two-thirds (2/3) majority of votes cast on the measure at an election.

SECTION 2

This Ordinance will become operative onjy if a two-thirds (2/3) majority
of votes cast on the measure at an election to be called for such
purpose vote to approve the Ordinance.

INTRODUCED at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors of
the County of Del Norte held on the 10th day of June, 2014.

APPROVED, PASSED, and ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the
Board of Supervisors of the County of Del Norte on the 24th day
of June, 2014, by the following polled vote:

AYES: Supervisors Gitlin, Hemmingsen, Finigan, McClure and Sullivan.
NOES: None.

ABSENT: None.

ABSTAIN: None.

si David Finigan, Chair of the Board of Supervisors

si Antoinette Self, Deputy Clerk to the Board of Supervisors

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
si Gretchen Stuhr, County Counsel

08-507

08507

MEASURE F
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Del Norte adopted
Ordinance 2014-009, which proposes a local transactions and use
tax specifically for the purpose of funding the Del Norte County
Fairgrounds.

The current total statewide base sales and use tax rate is 7.50%.
Cities and counties have the ability to place local sales and use tax
measures on the ballot for voter approval. These are called
transactions and use taxes. Despite the different name, these local
taxes apply to all of the same types of transactions as the state
sales and use tax. The difference is that local transactions and use
taxes are specific to a certain location - in this case, Del Norte
County.

The transactions and use tax proposed by Measure F is 0.25%, or
25 cents per every 100 dollars spent on taxable purchases. If Measure
F passes, the combined state and local sales tax rate for taxable
purchases in Del Norte County will be 7.75%. The revenues received
from the imposition of the tax proposed by Measure F are specifically
allocated for funding the maintenance and operations of, and
improvements to, the Del Norte County Fairgrounds. This tax will
sunset in seven (7) years.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of Supervisors.
Measure F must receive a "yes" vote from 2/3 of the voters to pass.

A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of approving the local 0.25%
transactions and use tax.

A"no" vote is a vote against approving the local 0.25% transaction
and use tax.

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT FOR MEASURE F PREPARED
BY CLINTON SCHAAD, DEL NORTE COUNTY
AUDITOR-CONTROLLER

Measure F will increase the local Transaction (sales) and Use Tax
by .25%. Currently the Transaction (sales) and Use Tax born by the
consumer in Del Norte County is 7.5%.

The commencement date of Measure F (if approved by the voters)
would be the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing 110
days after passage. There is a seven year sunset clause on this
measure.

If approved Measure F would result in an estimated $435,000 increase
in annual revenue for the Del Norte County Fairgrounds.

There would not be a significant impact to the County of Del Norte
(as a local government) with the passage of Measure F.

08508

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASUREF

The Del Norte County Fair, and the fairgrounds itself, are part of
our community's history and heritage-and it should remain that way
for generations to come.

But to make that happen, your support is needed.

California's state government eliminated funding for county fairs.
Some fairs and fairgrounds are endanger of closing. In Del Norte
County, thanks to some smart planning, the fair will continue through
2016. After that, the fair will be gone. And the fairgrounds will be
closed.

Starting in 2017,there will be no carnival. No exhibits. No blue ribbons.
No place to show off favorite drawings, photos or crafts. No place
for Grandma's award winning pie, or Aunt Ruth's strawberry
preserves. No demolition derby. No rodeo. No curly fries. No dough
boys. No Farmers Market.

But there is a solution- it's “Measure F.1'

"Measure F" would raise the local sales tax by one-quarter of one
percent for seven years. During that time span, approximately $3.5
million will be raised, enough to extend the fair and fairgrounds for
15 to 20 years.

The cost? If you buy $100 of taxable items, it will mean an extra
25 cents. Or to put another way, $4 coffee will cost you an extra
penny.

And what do you get in return? Just think of our community without
the fairgrounds. Indoor tennis, Roller Derby, the Holiday Fair, Ihe
Farmers Market and so many other events will have to find another
location, if possible.

And, of course, the Del Norte County Fair will vanish.

Economically, the loss of the fairgrounds will be dramatic to the
community. More than 125,000 people visit the fairgrounds annually,
producing almost $4 million in spending.

On Nov. 4, keep the Del Norte Fairgrounds alive and healthy. Vote
yes on Measure F.

si Randy Hatfield

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

For the last 80 years, Sacramento funded fairgrounds from horse
racing revenues. In 1990, the Fair fund grew to over $100 million.
Then horseracing declined and the money flow stopped. Three years
ago, Del Norte County Fairgrounds joined ALL the other fairgrounds
throughout the State in being cut off.

Three years have passed. Randy Hatfield, Fair Manager says, "Not
one county in the State of California has figured out a permanent
solution to keeping their fairs open."

The 2014 Fair cost $435,000 and lost $123,000. No business can
keep its doors open running at a consistent deficit.

So, now instead of learning how to make a profit, in the 11th hour,
the best these people can do is to add one more tax on the backs
of this very small, very poor community.

They have enough reserves to carry them through 2016. That gives
them two more years to figure this out.

It's not about wanting the fairgrounds to close.

It's about wanting a different solution than adding a new tax upon
inflation upon rate increases.

Necessity is the mother of invention. Let's figure out within the next
two years ways to run the fair at a profit.

The challenge is to get creative in the next two years.

Otherwise, they will continue doing the same things they've always
done, which doesn't work!

Other fairs around the county have closed, re-organized and
then re-opened. So can Del Norte County if need be.

No new taxes!

Vote NO on Measure F!

si Donna Westfall, CC-DN County Taxpayers Association

08-509

08509

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F

We are against a sales tax increase. The powers-that be have an
obligation to explore other options prior to shifting the cost onto Del
Norte county residents.

We suggest that the Fairgrounds Board and the General Manager
be immediately replaced with more forward thinkers. They are the
ones responsible for the failure of the Fairgrounds to adapt to tough
economic times. Why should residents pay for their mismanagement
and incompetence?

The loss of state funding has been a known reality since 2011. Over
the last three years, the board and general manager did nothing,
no planning, no changes, nothing at all to prepare for and offset
the inevitable loss of state funding.

The fairgrounds should be run like a business venture. If a business
is failing you don’t reward management with additional funding and
merely hope they can salvage the enterprise. Throwing public money
at the situation is not going to remedy the actual problem which is
lack of initiative and business skill needed to effectively utilize a
tremendous asset.

With increases to food prices, cable TV, phone, auto insurance,
postage, electricity, water and sewer do we really want to throw
good money after bad? The general manager, himself has recently
staled the proposed sales tax increase isn't going to be enough to
keep the Fairgrounds afloat in the long run. So why impose a sales
tax increase on the residents of this county knowing it is a losing
battle?

The Fairgrounds has been under-utilized for decades. Why not
organize and promote regularly scheduled entertainment events?
Why not a community co-op for growing and selling fruits and
vegetables? With so much available space, there are many other
viable and lucrative possibilities to explore.

Vote "NO" to increased sales tax!

Crescent City-Del Norte County Taxpayers Association

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F

The argument opposing Measure F is, at best, misinformed.

The bi-partisan Del Norte Fair Board and the fairgrounds'
management have worked effectively for years to keep both the Fair
and the Fairgrounds open. As a result, our Fair is in far better shape
than many of California's other small county fairs.

Indeed, Fair management and the board have been wise stewards
of taxpayer money, encouraging private business to invest in the
fairgrounds, opening its facilities to an endless stream of local groups
and events, and building partnerships with local and regional
agencies.

But the bottom line is that politicians in Sacramento have decided
funding county fairs is not worthwhile, and the small local group
opposing Measure F agrees. This group and its unnamed backers
seem eager to have the Fair disappear and the fairgrounds closed
permanently.

Well, we don't agree.

We believe:

•	That county fairs are an important part of the historical and
cultural fabric of our community.

•	That the Fairgrounds is vital to the economic viability of Del
Norte County.

•	That Measure F's slight sales tax increase is financially smart,
protecting and producing jobs in both the public and private
sectors.

•	That Del Norte County's residents want the Fair to continue
and the Fairgrounds to stay open for the benefit of everyone
in our community, now and for years to come.

Join us, from all walks of Del Norte County, from all political
viewpoints, who strongly overwhelmingly, support Measure F.

s/ Randy Hatfield

08-510

08510