BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
Jurisdiction Name: Cjty Qf 0aj^|and	Election Date: November ^ ^

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.
Insert ballot question text here:

Without increasing current tax rates, to reduce gun violence, robberies, and
homicides, improve 9-1-1 response times and support at-risk youth/young
adults, shall the City provide improved police, fire and emergency response
services and proven community programs, including dropout prevention, crisis
intervention, and job training/placement, by continuing to
collect a parking tax surcharge and a parcel tax for 10 years subject to annual
performance and financial audits monitored by a citizens oversight committee?

TYPE OF MEASURE

I Regular Measure EH Bond Measure

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

66.6667 %

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

S YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)

□	NO - A Full Text was not submitted

□	NO - Do not print, but it's accessible at:_______________________

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

Print Name:

Tamika Thomas/LaTonda Simmons

Date:

August 8, 2014

Signature:

CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)

CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)

Phone #

Phone #:

510-238-3612

E-Mail/Website:

http://www2.oaklandnet.com/OAK30369

A PROPOSED ORDINANCE TO MAINTAIN A PARCEL TAX AND A PARKING TAX
SURCHARGE FOR A PERIOD OF TEN YEARS TO IMPROVE POLICE, FIRE AND
EMERGENCY RESPONSE SERVICES AND COMMUNITY STRATEGIES FOR AT RISK
YOUTH AND YOUNG ADULTS.

This measure would maintain a special parcel tax and a special parking tax surcharge for
ten years. The City may use the special taxes solely to pay the costs and expenses related
to the following objectives: reduction of homicides, robberies, burglaries, and gun-related
violence; improving police and fire emergency 911 response times and other police
services; and investing in community-focused violence prevention and intervention
strategies to support at-risk youth and young adults. The measure establishes a Public
Safety and Services Violence Prevention Commission appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by the City Council to review and evaluate the measure's implementation.

The measure authorizes a parcel tax on property owners for ten years beginning on July 1,
2015. The amount of the parcel tax depends on the type of property: (1) single family
residential parcels, $99.77; (2) multiple residential unit parcels, $68.15 per unit; and (3) non-
residential parcels, a rate based on a formula that determines the single family residential
unit equivalent, multiplied by $51.07. The Council may annually adjust the parcel tax by the
increase in the consumer price index up to 5%. Qualifying low income households,
affordable housing projects, tenants in foreclosed single family homes, churches and
schools are eligible for exemptions, reductions, or rebates.

The 8 14 % parking tax surcharge would remain in place until December 31,2024.

Subject to exceptions described below, the measure requires that the City budget for, hire
and maintain a minimum of 678 sworn police personnel. The City is prohibited from
collecting the taxes provided by this measure for any fiscal year ("FY") that it does not
budget for a minimum of 678 sworn police personnel. If the City budgets for but fails to
maintain 678 sworn police personnel during a fiscal year, the amount of the parcel tax
collected the following fiscal year would be reduced by an amount proportionate to the
number of days the City did not meet the required staffing level during the prior fiscal year. If
the City budgets for but fails to maintain a minimum of 678 sworn police personnel during a
FY, collection of the parking tax surcharge during the following FY would be suspended for
the number of days that the City did not meet required staffing level during the prior FY.

Exceptions to budgeting and maintaining a minimum of 678 sworn police personnel may
apply: (1) if grant funding or other non-General Purpose Fund ("GPF") funding budgeted for
sworn police personnel in FY 2014-2015 becomes unavailable in later years; (2) if a severe,
unanticipated event adversely impacts the GPF to prevent the City from maintaining the
minimum number of sworn police personnel; or (3) if the number of sworn police personnel
unexpectedly falls below the required level despite the City's hiring plan. In such cases the
numeric requirements for budgeting and maintaining sworn police personnel would be
reduced by the shortfall. The measure establishes requirements for the City to declare an
exception. The measure prohibits layoffs that reduce sworn police personnel below 800.

In 2004, Oakland voters approved Measure Y, which imposed a "special" parcel tax and a
"special" parking tax surcharge to fund police, fire and violence prevention services. (A
"special" tax is a tax the City can use only for the purposes specified in the measure.)
Measure Y expires at the end of 2014. This measure would maintain the special parcel tax
and parking tax surcharge for an additional ten years. Like Measure Y, funds raised by this
measure must be used exclusively to fund police and fire services and community services
to assist at-risk youth and young adults and crime victims. A Public Safety and Services
Violence Prevention Commission with duties similar to the former Measure Y Commission
would review implementation of the measure. The Measure Y Commission has 11
members; this measure would establish a 9-member commission.

The parcel tax rates set by this measure and by Measure Y vary depending on the type of
parcel. Penalties and procedures for refunds are included in the measure.

Measure Y required that the City appropriate sufficient funds to maintain 739 uniformed
officers in fiscal year 2003-2004 and prohibited the City from collecting the tax in any year
that the City did not comply with this requirement; in 2010 the voters amended Measure Y
to eliminate the minimum staffing requirement for officers. This measure requires that the
City budget for, hire and maintain a minimum of 678 sworn police personnel.

If the City fails to budget for a minimum of 678 sworn police personnel for a fiscal year, the
City would be prohibited from collecting the parcel tax or special parking surcharge for that
fiscal year. If the City budgets for but fails to maintain 678 sworn police personnel during a
fiscal year, the amount of the property tax collected during the following fiscal year would be
reduced by an amount proportionate to the number of days that the City did not meet
staffing level requirements during the prior fiscal year. If the City fails to maintain 678 sworn
police personnel during a fiscal year after July 1, 2016, collection of the parking tax
surcharge during the following fiscal year would be suspended for a period determined by
the number days that the City did not meet staffing level requirements during the prior fiscal
year.

Existing law does not prohibit layoffs of sworn police personnel. This measure prohibits
layoffs of sworn police personnel that would reduce sworn police personnel to less than
800.

Exceptions to budgeting and maintaining a minimum of 678 sworn police personnel may
apply in some circumstances if the City makes certain determinations. (See City Attorney's
Summary of Measure). This measure establishes a process for the City to determine if any
of the exceptions apply.

The City Council placed this measure on the ballot. Approval of this measure requires an
affirmative vote by two-thirds of the voters who cast ballots.

Barbara J. Parker
City Attorney

CITY AUDITOR'S IMPARTIAL FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE

Measure____authorizes the City of Oakland to continue a parcel and parking

tax for the next 10 years, FY 2015-16 through FY 2024-25. Measure____

maintains the current taxes for police services and violence prevention
strategies to address violent crime and improve public safety in the City.

The Measure requires the City maintain a minimum of 678 officers, with
some exceptions, effective July 1, 2016. It prohibits layoffs that will result in
fewer than 800 officers. Revenue collected will be allocated as follows:

K $2 million Fire
I y Services

*

60% Police
Staffing,
Programs,
Services

40% Community
Violence
Prevention /
Intervention
Services

3% Oversight
and Evaluation

Financial Impact
Revenue

Under Measure_____, the FY 2015-16 tax rate will remain the same as the

current rate.

Tax	Type	Current  Rate	FY 2015-16 Rate
Parcel*	Single-Family Residential	$99.77	$99.77
	Multiple-Family Residential	$68.15	$68.15
	Non-Residential	$51.09	$51.09
Parking		8.5%	8.5%
A Increases annually for cost of living			

Total projected revenue the City will collect is $277.2 million.

Year	Parcel Tax RevenueA	Parking Tax RevenueA	Total Revenue
2015-16	$15,558,242	$8,693,432	$24,251,675
2016-17	$15,869,407	$9,084,637	$24,954,044
2017-18	$16,186,795	$9,493,446	$25,680,241
2018-19	$16,510,531	$9,920,651	$26,431,182
2019-20	$16,840,742	$10,367,080	$27,207,822

2020-21	$17,177,557	$10,833,598	$28,011,155
2021-22	$17,521,108	$11,321,110	$28,842,218
2022-23	$17,871,530	$11,830,560	$29,702,090
2023-24	$18,228,960	$12,362,936	$30,591,896
2024-25	$18,593,540	$12,919,268	$31,512,807
Total	$170,358,412	$106,826,718	$277,185,130
A Parcel tax includes cost of living increases. Parking tax includes growth rate. Includes deductions for county collection fees, delinquencies, and exemptions.			

Cost

Measure____will continue to require ongoing City funding of at least $7.3

million annually, totaling $73 million between FY 2015-16 and FY 2024-25.

•	$2	million	annually	for Fire Services: Measure__reduces the

allocation for Fire Services from $4 million under the previous public
safety measure to $2 million. The City will need to identify $2 million
from elsewhere in the City's budget or reduce said services. The City
has not given any indication of reducing fire services.

•	$5.3	million	annually	for officers: Measure__requires that the City

maintain 678 officers at all times; otherwise, the City will be unable to
collect the Measure's tax revenue. The Administration estimated that
to maintain 678 officers, the City must budget at least 700 officers,
costing $5.3 million for 22 officers above 678. Costs will increase over
the course of the Measure. Additionally, more than 700 officers may
need to be budgeted to ensure that the 678 minimum is met.
Currently, in FY 2013-15, the City budgeted over 700 officers (707

officers). Under Measure____, the City must continue to sustain this

level of officer funding each year, FY 2015-16 through FY 2024-25.

Based on our analysis of the data provided by City staff, the projected
revenue appears accurate. This analysis relied on the best data available at
the time; however, actual results may vary from these estimates.

S/COURTNEY A. RUBY, CPA, CFE
City Auditor

Measure Z does not increase tax rates. Instead, Measure Z simply continues an existing
measure to improve public safety in Oakland by focusing on reducing violent crime and
supporting our at-risk youth with proven community programs.

Dozens of Oakland community organizations, working in collaboration with City leaders,
spent the past year developing a prudent public safety measure that will focus on reduction
of violent crime through additional police officers and research based community
programs for at-risk youth.

Measure Z is the result of their careful work.

Without increasing taxes, Measure Z will fund critically important public safety
investments, including:

•	Additional Oakland police officers who will focus on reducing shootings, violent
crime, robberies, and homicides, and increase support for the Ceasefire model and
community policing in every neighborhood in Oakland.

•	Proven community programs that support our at-risk youth and reduce crime;
these include job training, high school graduation assistance, violence intervention
strategies, victim support and more. The specific programs Measure Z will fund have
reduced crimes by 83 percent where they have been tried before in Oakland.

•	Additional emergency response and firefighting capability to improve 9-1-1
response times.

Measure Z requires important safeguards to ensure these funds are spent responsibly:
public financial audits and a Citizens Oversight Commission composed of residents and
subject-area experts with authority to review how funds are spent and the ability to hold
City Council publicly accountable.

Measure Z is a responsible plan that extends a current measure, it does not increase taxes.

If Measure Z does not pass, we risk losing needed funding for dozens of police officers,
proven youth programs and emergency response providers.

Join a broad coalition of Oakland businesses, neighbors, community groups, and elected
leaders. Increase public safety without increasing our taxes. Vote YES on Measure
Z. www.aSaferOakland.com

s/ Barbara Leslie
President and CEO, Oakland Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce

s/ Richard L. Word

Former Oakland Police Chief
s/ Katherine Gavzy

President, League of Women Voters of Oakland
s/ David Kakishiba

President, Board of Education. Oakland Unified School District

Don't be fooled. This new $100 per parcel tax does not fund a single additional police
officer and will do nothing to improve public safety. This measure is yet another blank
check to irresponsible and dishonest City leaders.

In 2004 Oakland officials put the original Measure Y on the ballot, promising us 63
additional police officers for 10 years, one community policing officer per beat, meaningful
violence prevention programs, accountability and improved public safety. They lied. We
now have dozens of officers FEWER than what we had then, and crime has soared! We got
the promised police staffing for less than six months. The City wasted millions recruiting
new officers, only to lay them all off less than a year later. The City never conducted the
required financial audits until it was sued. The violence prevention programs have little
accountability and have not prevented or reduced crime, which is significantly higher now
than in 2004.

Read the measure closely - it is more deceptive and has less accountability than the
original. It does not guarantee a single additional officer. It allows the City to collect the tax
even if police staffing goes down! The measure eliminates the previously required
dedicated community police officers, and eliminates any restrictions on what type of
programs the money can be spent on. We never got the promised additional officers under
the original Measure Y, so don't worry about losing them if this tax is rejected.

This new tax, which will also be imposed on renters, will do nothing to force Oakland to
staff police at necessary levels. True supporters of meaningful improvement to public
safety in Oakland will reject this tax and tell Oakland to come back with a new measure that
actually guarantees increased police staffing, and ensures fiscal responsibility. Vote NO!

s/ Marleen L. Sacks

Member, Beat 22x Neighborhood Crime Prevention Council
s/ Charles Pine

Member Oakland Residents for Peaceful Neighborhoods
s/ Frank J. Castro

Community Policing Advisory Board Neighborhood Watch Steering Committee

Measure Z is not a continuation of Measure Y. Read it closely. It doesn't promise to add a
single additional police officer; it doesn't give us one community policing officer for each
beat, and there are no limits on the types of programs that the money can be spent on. The
original Measure Y was $88; Measure Z starts off at $99, and increases with inflation.

Measure Z will not make us safer. The City gets this tax money even if police staffing goes
down. Proponents claim this tax will fund specific programs that have reduced crime. But
in fact, FBI statistics show that crime has gone up in the 10 years since Measure Y, not
down. The proponents are making their numbers up, just like City leaders who made up the
"100 Blocks" program that turned out not to exist. No specific improvements to firefighting
or 911 response times are even referenced in the measure.

Measure Y promised oversight too - and look what happened. No audits were performed
until the City lost a lawsuit. The City spent $200 million over the 10 years Measure Y was in
effect, and what do we have to show for it? Fewer officers and higher crime. The money
never bought us the promised staffing; rejecting this tax will not impact the number of
officers or crime. Tell the City to go back to the drawing board and come back with a
measure that will give us guaranteed improvements in public safety. Vote NO!

s/ Marleen L. Sacks

Member, Beat 22x Neighborhood Crime Prevention Council
s/ Charles Pine

Member Oakland Residents for Peaceful Neighborhoods
s/ Colleen Brown

Former Vice-Chair Community Policing Advisory Board (CPAB)
s/ Marcus Johnson

Community Policing Advisory Board, Member
s/ Frank Castro

Community Policing Advisory Board Neighborhood Watch Steering Committee

Don't be deceived by the inaccurate statements of the few Measure Z opponents.

Measure Z is not a new tax. It will not raise current tax rates. Measure Z offers a real
opportunity to take a stand against crime without increasing taxes.

The League of Women Voters of Oakland carefully studied this measure and offered its
strong endorsement because they believe that Measure Z is a critical and necessary
component of Oakland's crime-fighting efforts.

Fact: Over the past ten years, the City has learned many lessons about what does and
doesn't work to decrease crime. Measure Z concentrates on reducing violent crime; such as
homicides, shootings, and robberies. Measure Z also focuses on at-risk youth and the
reentry population with community policing programs and strategies that have been
proven to reduce recidivism and new crimes.

Fact: Measure Z will fund at least 50 police officers to focus specifically on reducing violent
crime. Measure Z also requires a minimum staffing level of police officers well above recent
levels.

Fact: Measure Z requires a strong citizens oversight commission of independent, expert
residents with increased authority to review the use and efficacy of Measure Z funds.

Fact: Crime is down in Oakland, but we have a long way to go. If we lose Measure Z, we will
go backwards - not forward.

Join the League of Women Voters of Oakland, community groups, elected leaders,
neighbors, and Oakland businesses.

Increase public safety without increasing our taxes. Vote YES on Measure Z.
www.aSaferOakland.com

s/ Nancy E. O’Malley
District Attorney

s/ J. Alfred Smith, Jr.

Senior Pastor, Allen Temple Baptist Church

s/ Keith Carson
President, Alameda County Board of Supervisors

s/ Robert L. Jackson
Bishop Bob Jackson, Acts Full Gospel Church

The people of the City of Oakland do ordain as follows:
PARTI. GENERAL

Section 1. TITLE AND PURPOSE.

(A)	Title. This Ordinance may be cited as the “The 2014 Oakland Public Safety
and Services Violence Prevention Act.”

(B)	Purpose. The taxes imposed under this Ordinance are solely for the
purpose of raising revenue necessary to maintain police and fire services and violence
prevention and intervention strategies, to address violent crime and to improve public
safety in the City of Oakland.

The parcel tax imposed in Part 2 is an excise tax on the privilege of using and use
of municipal services. Such municipal services increase and provide greater benefit to
Owners of Parcels when programs to prevent violence and crime in the City are
enhanced. Because the proceeds of the tax will be deposited in a special fund restricted
for the services and programs specified herein, the tax is a special tax.

Section 2. FINDINGS.

(A)	This Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act,
Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq., as it can be seen with certainty that
there is no possibility that the activity authorized herein may have a significant effect on
the environment.

(B)	Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to preclude owners from recovering
the tax from the occupant. Whether the occupant is charged depends on the
occupancy agreement and the requirements of the Residential Rent Adjustment
Program. Moreover, non-payment will not be a lien on the property but a personal
obligation of the occupant or owner.

Section 3. USE OF PROCEEDS.

(A) Objectives. The tax proceeds raised by these special taxes may be used
only to pay for any costs or expenses relating to or arising from efforts to achieve the
following objectives and desired outcomes:

1.	Reduce homicides, robberies, burglaries, and gun-related violence;

2.	Improve police and fire emergency 911 response times and other police
services; and,

3.	Invest in violence intervention and prevention strategies that provide
support for at-risk youth and young adults to interrupt the cycle of violence
and recidivism.

(B)	Allocation. To achieve the objectives stated herein, three percent (3%) of
the total funds collected shall be set aside annually for audit and evaluation of the
programs, strategies and services funded by this measure, and to support the work of the
Commission established herein (including meeting supplies, retreats, and the hiring of
consultants).Of the remaining ninety-seven percent (97%), the Oakland Fire Department
shall be allocated special tax revenue in the amount of $2,000,000annually. The tax funds
remaining shall be allocated as follows: sixty percent (60%) for purposes described in
subsection(C)(1) and forty percent (40%) for purposes described in subsection (C)(3) of
this section.

(C)	Uses. Taxes collected pursuant to the special taxes imposed herein shall
be used only in connection with programs and services that further the objectives set forth
in Section 3(A), such as the following:

1.	Geographic Policing: hire, deploy and maintain sworn police
personnel assigned to specific geographic areas or neighborhoods,
performing duties such as:

(a)	Crime Reduction Teams (CRTs): strategically geographically
deployed sworn police personnel to investigate and respond to the
commission of violent crimes in identified violence hot spots using
intelligence-based policing;

(b)	Community Resource Officers (CROs): these officers would
engage in problem solving projects, attend Neighborhood Crime Prevention
Council meetings, serve as a liaison with city services teams, provide
foot/bike patrols, answer calls for service if needed, lead targeted
enforcement projects and coordinate these projects with CRTs, Patrol units
and other sworn police personnel;

(c)	Conduct intelligence-based violence suppression operations
such as field interviews, surveillance, undercover operations, high visibility
patrol, probation/ parole compliance checks, search warrants, assist
Community Resource Officers (formerly Problem Solving Officer program)
projects, violent crime investigation and general follow up;

(d)	Domestic violence and child abuse intervention: additional
officers to team with social service providers to intervene in situations of
domestic violence and child abuse, including sexual exploitation of children;

(e)	Sustaining and strengthening of the City’s Operation
Ceasefire strategy, including project management and crime analysis
positions.

2.	Maintenance of Sworn Police Personnel: The intent of the
augmented funding is to maintain sufficient resources to allow for the
implementation of comprehensive policing within the City’s limited
resources and to begin the process of restoring the sworn staffing of the

2

Oakland Police Department to a number of CRTs, CROs, and other
sworn police personnel appropriate to meet the Oakland Police
Department’s stated mission of providing the people of Oakland an
environment where they can live, work, play and thrive free from crime
and the fear of crime. To ensure the Department’s progress toward this
mission, the following shall apply:

(a)	Upon passage of this Ordinance, the City shall maintain a
budgeted level of no fewer than six hundred seventy eight (678) sworn
police personnel (including those sworn police personnel funded by this
Ordinance) at all times, and shall hire and maintain no fewer than 678
sworn police personnel as early as practicable after the passage of this
Ordinance and at all times after July 1, 2016.

(b)	The City is prohibited from laying off any police officers if
such layoffs will result in a reduction of sworn police personnel to a level
of less than 800. Furthermore, the City is prohibited from laying off any
police officers unless the City Council adopts a resolution containing
factual findings that it is necessary to layoff officers.

(c)	Each fiscal year, before the City adopts its two year policy
budget or its mid-cycle budget adjustments, the City Administrator shall
submit to the City Council, and the City Council shall adopt, a sworn
police personnel hiring plan (“the hiring plan”) demonstrating how the
City will achieve and /or maintain the strength of force required by this
Ordinance. The hiring plan will make use of assumptions that department
attrition rates, recruiting success, academy yield and other relevant
factors affecting the growth or shrinkage of the department will be
comparable to the past two to four years’ experience.

(d)	The City shall be prohibited from collecting the taxes
provided for in this Ordinance at any time that it has failed to budget for a
minimum of 678 sworn police personnel. If the City fails to budget the
requisite number, the prohibitions set forth in Section 3(C)(2)(e) will apply
to the fiscal year of that budget. At any time after July 1, 2016, that the
City has failed to hire and maintain a minimum of 678 sworn police
personnel, with the exceptions listed below, the prohibitions set forth in
Section 3(C)(2)(e) will apply to the fiscal year following 90 days from this
determination. The City has 90 days to declare any of the following
exceptions:

i.	If grant funding or other non-General Purpose Fund funding
budgeted forsworn police personnel in the FY 2014-2015
budget becomes unavailable after that fiscal year, the numeric
requirements for budgeting and maintaining sworn police
personnel shall be reduced by the number of sworn police
personnel previously funded by such lost revenue source. This
exception shall apply only if the City Administrator submits a
report to the City Council explaining the unavailability of the
3

non-General Purpose Fund revenue, the steps that were taken
by the City to try to replace such funding and the steps the City
will take in the future to replace such funding. In addition, for
this exception to apply, the City Council must adopt a
resolution stating that such funding is no longer available and
alternative non-General Purpose Fund revenue is not
available. Such actions must be taken for each fiscal year in
which the City fails to meet the minimum staffing requirements
of this Ordinance for the reasons described in this sub-section.

ii.	If a severe and unanticipated financial or other event occurs
that so adversely impacts the General Purpose Fund as to
prevent the City from budgeting for, hiring and maintaining the
minimum number of sworn police personnel required by this
Ordinance, the numeric requirements for budgeting and
maintaining sworn police personnel shall be reduced by the
numbers the City is unable to fund as a result of such event.
This exception shall apply only if the City Administrator
submits a report to the City Council explaining the severe and
unanticipated event, the steps that were taken by the City to
avoid the need to reduce the number of sworn police
personnel and the steps that will be taken by the City in the
future to restore sworn police personnel. Such actions must be
taken for each fiscal year in which the City fails to meet the
minimum staffing requirements of this Ordinance for the
reasons described in this sub-section.

iii.	If the number of sworn police personnel required by this
Ordinance unexpectedly falls below the level required despite
the City’s adoption of and implementation of the hiring plan,
the numeric requirements for budgeting and maintaining sworn
police personnel shall be reduced by the shortfall. This
exception shall apply only if the City Administrator reports to
the City Council concerning the reasons for the shortfall, the
steps that should be taken to restore the sworn police
personnel level, and the time frame for doing so. If appropriate,
the City Council will adopt resolution modifying the hiring plan.
The specific facts and circumstances relied upon to establish
an exception under this subsection shall not establish an
exception in consecutive fiscal years.

(e)	Suspension or Reduction of Taxes

i.	If at any time the City fails to budget for the staffing levels

required in Section 3(C)(2) for a fiscal year and there has been
no Council action establishing an exception set forth in Section
3(C)(2)(d), the City shall not impose and levy the parcel tax
established pursuant to this ordinance during that fiscal year.

4

ii.	If at any time the City fails to budget for the staffing levels
required in Section 3(C)(2) for a fiscal year and there has been
no Council action establishing an exception set forth in Section
3(C)(2)(d), appropriate notice shall be provided to all parking
lot operators that collection of the parking tax surcharge
pursuant to this Ordinance shall be suspended during that
fiscal year.

iii.	If the City fails to maintain staffing levels required in Section
3(C)(2) and there has been no Council action establishing an
exception set forth in Section 3(C)(2)(d), the parcel tax
imposed and levied during the following fiscal year shall be
reduced by an amount proportionate to the number of days
that the City did not meet staffing level requirements during the
prior fiscal year.

Example: Parcel tax proportionally reduced for a period of 100
days where the City did not meet the required staffing level
during the prior fiscal year, with a tax levied at a rate of $99.77
for a single family residential parcel:

365 days - 100 days = 265 days

265 days + 365 days = 72.60%

72.60% x $99.77 = $72.43

iv.	If the City fails to maintain staffing levels required in Section
3(C)(2) and there has been no Council action establishing an
exception set forth in Section 3(C)(2)(d), appropriate notice
shall be provided to all parking lot operators that collection of
the parking tax surcharge shall be suspended for a period of
time determined by the number days that the City did not meet
staffing level requirements during the following fiscal year.

3.	Community-focused Violence Prevention and Intervention Services
and Strategies: Coordination of public systems and community-based
social services with a joint focus on youth and young adults at highest risk
of violence as guided by data analysis. Invest in and engage the
community in collaborative strategies such as:

(a)	Street outreach and case management to youth and young
adults at high-risk of involvement in violence in order to connect individuals
in need of employment, mental health, or educational services to needed
programs;

(b)	Crisis response, advocacy and case management for victims
of crime (including domestic violence victims, commercially sexually

5

exploited children, and victims of shootings and homicides) with a strategic
focus on reducing likelihood of being re-victimized;

(c)	Reentry programs for youth and young adults, including case
management, school support, job training and placement in order to reduce
recidivism rates and improve educational and employment outcomes;

(d)	Young children exposed to trauma or domestic and/or
community violence.

4.	Fire Services: Provide fire services such as:

(a)	Maintain adequate personnel resources to respond to fire
and medical emergencies including, but not limited, response to homicides
and gun-related violence and investigate fire causes

Section 4. PLANNING. ACCOUNTABILITY AND EVALUATION.

To ensure the proper revenue collection, spending, and implementation of the
programs mandated by this Ordinance, the City shall impose the following requirements:

(A) Commission: Adoption of this Ordinance shall establish a “Public Safety

and Services Violence Prevention” Commission.

1.	Qualifications:	The	Commission’s	membership	must be comprised of

individuals with experience in criminal justice, public health, social services,
research and evaluation, finance, audits, and/or public policy.

2.	Conflicts of Interest: Each Commission member shall certify that the
member and the member’s immediate family members, business
associates and employers have no financial interest in any program,
project, organization, agency or other entity that is seeking or will seek
funding approval under this Ordinance. Financial interest includes, without
limitation, salaries, consultant fees, program fees, commissions, gifts,
gratuities, favors, sales income, rental payments, investment income or
other business income. A Commission member shall immediately notify the
City Administrator and the Chair of the Commission of any real or possible
conflict of interest between membership on the Commission and work or
other involvement with entities funded by the taxes provided for in this
Ordinance. Any dispute about whether a conflict of interest exists shall be
resolved by the Public Ethics Commission.

3.	Composition: The Commission shall consist of nine (9) members. The
Mayor and each councilmember shall recommend one member of the
Commission each. All commissioners shall be appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by the City Council in accordance with City Charter Section 601.

At least two (2) members will have experience working with service-eligible
populations, two (2) members will reflect the service-eligible populations,

6

and two (2) members will have a professional law enforcement or criminal
justice background. Other members will meet the criteria as established in
subsection 1 above.

4.	Meetings of the Commission: The Commission shall conduct regular
meetings and such special meetings as it deems necessary.

5.	Joint Meetings of the Commission and City Council: The City Council,
the Commission and other public safety-related boards and commissions
shall conduct an annual joint special public informational meeting devoted
to the subject of public safety. At each such meeting, the public,
Commission and City Council will hear reports from representatives of all
departments and the Chief of Police concerning progress of all of the
City’s efforts to reduce violent crime.

6.	Duties of the Commission: The Commission shall perform the following
duties:

(a)	Evaluate, inquire, and review the administration, coordination, and
evaluation of strategies and practices mandated in this Ordinance.

(b)	Make recommendations to the City Administrator and, as
appropriate, the independent evaluator regarding the scope of the
annual program performance evaluation. Wherever possible, the
scope shall relate directly to the efficacy of strategies to achieve
desired outcomes and to issues raised in previous evaluations.

(c)	Receive draft performance reviews to provide feedback before the
evaluator finalizes the report.

(d)	Report issues identified in the annual fiscal audit to the Mayor and
City Council.

(e)	Review the annual fiscal and performance audits and evaluations.

(f)	Report in a public meeting to the Mayor and the City Council on
the implementation of this Ordinance and recommend ordinances,
resolutions, and regulations to ensure compliance with the
requirements and intents of this Ordinance.

(g)	Provide input on strategies: At least every three (3) years, the
department head or his/her designee of each department
receiving funds from this Ordinance shall present to the
Commission a priority spending plan for funds received from this
Ordinance. The priority spending plan shall include proposed
expenditures, strategic rationales for those expenditures and
intended measurable outcomes and metrics expected from those
expenditures. The first presentation shall occur within 120 days of
the effective date of this Ordinance. In a public meeting, the

7

	Commission shall make recommendations to the Mayor and City Council on the strategies in the plans prior to the City Council adoption of the plans. Spending of tax proceeds of this Ordinance must be sufficiently flexible to allow for timely responsiveness to the changing causes of violent crime. The priority spending plans shall reflect such changes.  The Commission will recommend to the Mayor and City Council those strategies and practices funded by tax proceeds of this Ordinance that should be continued and/or terminated, based on successes in responding to, reducing or preventing violent crime as demonstrated in the evaluation.

(h)	Semi-Annual Progress Reports:	Twice	each	year,	the

Commission shall receive a report from a representative of each
department receiving funds from this Ordinance, updating the
Commission on the priority spending plans and demonstrating
progress towards the desired outcomes.

(B) Accountability and Reporting.

1.	Annual Proaram Evaluation: Annual independent program evaluations pursuant to Section 3(C) shall include performance analysis and evidence that policing and violence prevention/intervention programs and strategies are progressing toward the desired outcomes. Evaluations will consider whether programs and strategies are achieving reductions in community violence and serving those at the highest risk. Short-term successes achieved by these strategies and long-term desired outcomes will be considered in the program evaluations.

2. Annual Audit Review: An independent audit shall be performed

Section 5.	annually to ensure accountability and proper disbursement of the proceeds of this tax in accordance with the objectives stated herein as provided by Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3. The City will, from time to time, retain an engineer for services pertaining to this parcel tax.  SPECIAL FUND.

All funds collected by the City from the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be
deposited into a special fund in the City treasury and appropriated and expended only
for the purposes and uses authorized by this Ordinance.

Section 6. EFFECTIVE DATE.

The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall become effective upon passage.
Section 7. TERM OF TAX IMPOSITION.

The taxes enacted by this Ordinance shall be imposed and levied for a period of
ten (10) years. The City shall place delinquencies on subsequent tax bills.

Section 8. SAVINGS CLAUSE.

If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Ordinance is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause,
section or part of this Ordinance and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this Ordinance. It is hereby declared
that the City would have adopted this Ordinance had such unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.

If any tax imposed by this Ordinance is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the amounts, services, programs and
personnel required to be funded from such tax shall be reduced proportionately by any
revenues lost due to such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity.

Section 9. NO AMENDMENT.

The tax rates set forth herein may not be increased by action of the City Council
without the applicable voter approval, but the City Council may make any other changes
to this Ordinance as are consistent with its purpose.

PART 2. PARCEL TAX

Section 1. DEFINITIONS.

For purposes of this Ordinance, the following terms shall be defined as set forth

below:

(A)	“Additional” shall mean an increase in the existing number.

(B)	“Administrative Costs" shall mean overhead costs, including central
services, departmental and/or divisional.

(C)	"Building" shall mean any structure having a roof supported by columns or
by walls and designed for the shelter or housing of any person, chattel or property of any
kind. The word "Building" includes the word "structure."

(D)	“Family” shall mean one or more persons related by blood, marriage,
domestic partnership, or adoption, who are living together in a single residential unit and
maintaining a common household. Family shall also mean all unrelated persons who live
together in a single Residential Unit and maintain a common household.

(E)	“Geographic Policing” means a decentralized and focused approach to
policing. Sworn police personnel are assigned and deployed to specific geographic
areas. The Commander leading each area is responsible and accountable at all times for

9

addressing crime within the area directing and allocating police resources according to
particular local needs.

(F)	“Hotel” shall mean as defined by Oakland Municipal Code section 4.24.020.

(G)	“Multiple Residential Unit Parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned for a Building,
or those portions thereof, which accommodates or is intended to contain two or more
residential units.

(H)	“Non-Residential” shall mean all parcels that are not classified by this
Ordinance as Residential Parcels, and shall include, but not be limited to, parcels for
industrial, commercial and institutional improvements, whether or not currently developed.

(I)	"Occupancy" shall be as defined by Oakland Municipal Code section

4.24.020.

(J)	"Operator" shall be as defined by Oakland Municipal Code section

4.24.020.

(K)	“Owner” shall mean the Person having title to real estate as shown on the
most current official assessment role of the Alameda County Assessor.

(L)	“Parcel” shall mean a unit of real estate in the City of Oakland as shown on
the most current official assessment role of the Alameda County Assessor.

(M)	“Person” shall mean an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation,
estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.

(N)	“Possessory Interest" as it applies to property owned by any agency of the
government of the United States, the State of California, or any political subdivision
thereof, shall mean possession of, claim to, or right to the possession of, land or
Improvements and shall include any exclusive right to the use of such land or
Improvements.

(O)	"Residential Unit" shall mean a Building or portion of a Building designed for
or occupied exclusively by one Family.

(P)	“Single Family Residential Parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned for single-
family residences, whether or not developed.

(Q)	"Transient" shall mean any individual who exercises Occupancy of a hotel
or is entitled to Occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or
other agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting
portions of calendar days as full days. Any individual so occupying space in a Hotel shall
be deemed to be a Transient until the period of thirty (30) consecutive days has elapsed.

Section 2. IMPOSITION OF PARCEL TAX.

There is hereby imposed a special tax on all Owners of parcels in the City of
Oakland for the privilege of using municipal services and the availability of such services.
The tax imposed by this Section shall be assessed on the Owner unless the Owner is by
law exempt from taxation, in which case, the tax imposed shall be assessed to the holder
of any Possessory Interest in such parcel, unless such holder is also by law exempt from
taxation. The tax is imposed as of July 1 of each year on the person who owned the
parcel on that date. The tax shall be collected at the same time, by the same officials, and
pursuant to the same procedures as the one percent property tax imposed pursuant to
Article XIIIA of the California Constitution.

Base Amount of Tax. The tax hereby imposed shall be set as follows subject to
adjustment as provided in Section 5 below:

(A)	For owners of all Single Family Residential Parcels, the tax shall be at the
annual rate of $99.77 per parcel.

(B)	For owners of all Multiple Residential Unit Parcels, the tax shall be at the
annual rate of per occupied Residential Unit of $68.15 per parcel.

Owners of units that are vacant for six months or more per year may apply to the
Director of Finance to have the rate reduced by 50% per vacant Residential Unit located
on the Parcel of $34.07 per parcel.

(C)	The tax for Non-Residential Parcels is calculated using both frontage and
square footage measurements to determine total Single Family Residential Unit
Equivalents (SFE). A frontage of 80 feet for a commercial/industrial parcel, for example,
is equal to one (1) single family resident unit equivalent. (See matrix.) An area of 6,400
square feet for the commercial industrial parcel is equal to one (1) single family resident
unit equivalent. The tax is the annual rate $51.09 multiplied by the total number of Single
Family Equivalents (determined by the frontage and square footage).

Land Use Category	Frontage	Area (SF)
Commercial Institutional	80	6,400
Industrial	100	10,000
Public Utility	1,000	100,000
Golf Course	500	100,000
Quarry	1,000	250,000

Example: assessment calculation for a Commercial Institutional Parcel with a Frontage of
160 feet and an Area of 12,800 square feet:

Frontage 160 feet * 80 = 2 SFE

12,800 square feet -5- 6,400 = 2 SFE

2 SFE + 2 SFE = 4 SFE

4 SFE x $51.09 = $204.36 tax

11

Area

(D)	An Owner of an Undeveloped Parcel is exempt from this parcel tax if the
Owner can prove that the parcel was undeveloped for at least six months of the year in
question.

(E)	The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be imposed on each Hotel within
the City as follows:

1.	Residential Hotels. Rooms in a Hotel occupied by individuals who were not
Transients for 80% or more of the previous Fiscal Year shall be deemed Residential Units
and the parcel on which they are located shall be subject to the Parcel tax imposed on
Multiple Residential Unit Parcels. The remainder of the Building shall be subject to the
applicable tax computed in accordance with the Single Family Residential Unit Equivalent
formula set forth in Section 2(C).

2.	Transient Hotels. Notwithstanding the previous subsection, if 80% or more of
the Operator's gross receipts for the previous Fiscal Year were reported as rent received
from Transients on a return filed by the Operator in compliance with section 4.24.010 of
the Oakland Municipal Code (commonly known as the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax
of the City of Oakland), such Hotel shall be deemed a Transient Hotel. The entire
Building shall be deemed a Non-Residential Parcel, categorized as
Commercial/lnstitutional, and shall be subject to the applicable tax computed in
accordance with the Single Family Residential Unit Equivalent formula set forth in Section
2(C), and the parcel tax imposed on Multiple Residential Units shall not apply.

Section 3. EXEMPTIONS.

(A)	Low income household exemption. The following is exempt from this tax: an
Owner of a Single Family Residential Unit (1) who resides in such unit and (2) whose
combined family income, from all sources for the previous fiscal year, is at or below the
income level qualifying as "very low income" for a Family of such size under Section 8 of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 et. seq.,) for such
fiscal year. Owners must apply for the exemption provided for in this section annually by
petition to the Director of the Finance of the City of Oakland ("Director of Finance") or City
Administrator designee in the manner and time set forth in procedures established by the
Director of Finance. Such petitions shall be on forms provided by the Director of Finance
and shall provide such information as the Director of Finance shall require, including, but
not limited to, federal income tax returns and W-2 forms of owner-occupants eligible for
this exemption.

(B)	Fifty percent reduction for affordable housing projects. Rental housing
owned by nonprofit corporations and nonprofit-controlled partnerships for senior, disabled
and low income households that are exempt from ad valorem property tax pursuant
California Revenue and Taxation Code sections 214(f), (g) and (h) shall be liable for only
50% of the parcel tax. The exemption shall apply in the same proportion that is exempted
from ad valorem property tax.

(C)	Rebate to tenants in foreclosed single family homes. The City will provide a
rebate of one-half of the tax and subsequent increases thereto ("Foreclosure Rebate") to

12

tenants in single family homes that have been foreclosed upon who have paid a passed
through Parcel Tax. To qualify for the Foreclosure Rebate, a tenant must: (1) have lived in
the unit before foreclosure proceedings commenced; and (2) be at or below the income
level qualifying as "very low income" for a Family of such size under Section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 et. seq.,) for such fiscal
year. The City will provide the Foreclosure Rebate for every month that the tax was
applied and the tenant occupied the unit. The City will provide the Foreclosure Rebate at
the end of each fiscal year, or when the tenant vacates the unit, whichever is earlier. The
City Administrator will promulgate regulations to effectuate this Part 3, Section 3(C).

(D)	Real property owned by a religious organization or school that is exempt
from property taxes under California law is exempt from this tax. To qualify for this
exemption, each religious organization or school seeking such exemption shall submit
such information required to determine eligibility for such exemption.

Section 4. REDUCTION IN TAX: RATE ADJUSTMENT.

(A)	Subject to paragraph (B) of this section, the tax rates imposed by this
Ordinance are maximum rates and may not be increased by the City Council above such
maximum rates. The tax imposed by the Ordinance may be suspended, reduced or
eliminated by the City Council for a subsequent fiscal year upon a vote of the City Council
on or before June 30th of the year in which the City Council determines that after such
suspension, reduction or elimination, there will be sufficient revenues available to balance
the City Council’s Adopted Policy Budget and provide the services and programs
described in Part I, Section 3 above. Such suspension, reduction or elimination shall be
effective the fiscal year following such vote.

(B)	Beginning in the Fiscal Year 2015-2016, and each year thereafter, the City
Council may increase the tax imposed hereby only upon a finding that the cost of living in
the immediate San Francisco Bay Area, as shown on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for
all items in the San Francisco Bay Area as published by the U.S. Department of Labor
Statistics, has increased. The percentage increase of the tax imposed hereby shall not
exceed such increase, using Fiscal Year 2014-2015 as the index year and in no event
shall any annual adjustment exceed five percent (5%).

Section 5. DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.

It shall be the duty of the Director of the Finance to collect and receive all taxes
imposed by this Ordinance. The Director of Finance is charged with the enforcement of
this Ordinance and may adopt rules and regulations relating to such enforcement.

Section 6. EXAMINATION OF BOOKS. RECORDS. WITNESSES:

PENALTIES.

The Director of Finance or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine
assessment rolls, property tax records, records of the Alameda County Recorder and any
other records of the County of Alameda deemed necessary in order to determine
ownership of Parcels and computation of the tax imposed by this Ordinance.

The Director of Finance or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine the
books, papers and records of any person subject to the tax imposed by this Ordinance for
the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim or return filed and to ascertain
the tax due. The Director of Finance, or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine
any person, under oath, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim or
return filed or to ascertain the tax due under this Ordinance and for this purpose may
compel the production of books, papers and records before him/her, whether as parties or
witnesses, whenever s/he believes such persons have knowledge of such matters. The
refusal of such examination by any person subject to the tax shall be deemed a violation
of this Ordinance and of the Oakland Municipal Code and subject to any and all remedies
specified therein.

Section 7. COLLECTION OF TAX: INTEREST AND PENALTIES.

The tax shall be delinquent if the City does not receive it on or before the
delinquency date set forth in the notice mailed to the Owner’s address as shown on the
most current assessment roll of the Alameda County Tax Collector; and the tax shall be
collected in such a manner as the City Council may decide. The City may place
delinquencies on a subsequent tax bill.

A one-time penalty at a rate set by the City Council, which in no event shall exceed
25% of the tax due per fiscal year, is hereby imposed by this Ordinance on all taxpayers
who fail to timely pay the tax provided by this Ordinance; in addition, the City Council may
assess interest at the rate of 1% per month on the unpaid tax and the penalty thereon.

Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this
Ordinance shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

The City may authorize the County of Alameda to collect the taxes imposed by
this Ordinance in conjunction with and at the same time and in the same manner as the
County collects property taxes for the City. If the City elects to authorize the County of
Alameda to collect the tax, penalties and interest shall be those applicable to the
nonpayment of property taxes.

Section 8. COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES.

The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions of this
Ordinance shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person owing money under the
provisions of this Ordinance shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for
the recovery for such amount.

Section 9. REFUND OF TAX. PENALTY. OR INTEREST PAID MORE THAN

ONCE: OR ERRONEOUSLY OR ILLEGALLY COLLECTED.

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest imposed by this Ordinance
has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received

14

by the City it may be refunded provided a verified written claim for refund, stating the
specific ground upon which such claim is founded, is received by the Director of Finance
within one (1) year of the date of payment. The claim shall be filed by the person who
paid the tax or such person’s guardian, conservator, or the executor of her or his estate.
No representative claim may be filed on behalf of a taxpayers or a class of taxpayers. The
claim shall be reviewed by the Director of Finance and shall be made on forms provided
by the Director of Finance. If the claim is approved by the Director of Finance, the excess
amount collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited against any amounts then
due and payable from the Person from whom it was collected or by whom paid, and the
balance may be refunded to such Person, his/her administrators or executors. Filing a
claim shall be a condition precedent to legal action against the City for a refund of the tax.

PART 3.	10-YEAR EXTENSION OF PARKING TAX SURCHARGE

The Municipal Code is hereby amended to add as set forth below (section
numbers and titles are indicated in bold type; additions are indicated by underscoring
and deletions are indicated by strike-through type; portions of the regulations not cited
or not shown in underscoring or strike-through type are not changed). Chapter 4.14,
Section 4.16.020 and Section 4.16.031of the Municipal Code are hereby amended to
read as follows:

4.16.031	Imposition of Surcharge

Subject to the provisions for the collection of taxes and definitions in this
chapter, there shall be an additional tax of eight and one-half (8 1/2) percent imposed
on the rental of every parking space in a parking station in the City until December 31.
2024.

and be it,

15