MEASURE S
CITY OF PINOLE

City of Pinole Local Sales Tax: Shall an ordinance be
adopted enacting a local half-cent transaction and use
(sales) tax to maintain essential police and fire services,
to prevent the reduction in maintenance of City parks and
streets, and to prevent the reduction of youth, family and
senior recreational services, subject to annual external
audit and review?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE S

The City Council submitted a ballot measure for an
ordinance that would enact a new half-cent (0.5%)
Transactions and Use (‘‘Sales’’) tax within the City of
Pinole. This tax is a general purpose tax requiring a simple
majority (50% + 1) vote. If approved by the voters, the
tax will be deposited into the City of Pinole’s general fund
and will used to pay for and prevent reduction in essential
municipal services, such as police, fire, paramedic, parks,
streets, youth, family and senior recreation services. The
tax ordinance requires independent auditors to report
on the collection, management and expenditure of tax
revenue. An annual report will be prepared for public
review at a public hearing.

The existing sales tax is a combination of “sales and use
tax” and ‘transactions and use tax.” Retailers collect both
taxes at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State
Board of Equalization, which administers the taxes. Both
are levied on the retail sale or use of personal property,
with certain exceptions. A sales tax is allocated to the
jurisdiction where the sale is negotiated or the order for the
sale is taken, but a transactions and use tax is allocated
to the City where the merchandise or goods are delivered
or placed into use. Merchandise purchased in a retail
store is assumed by the state to be used within the city in
which the store is located, unless the retailer is asked to
ship the merchandise outside the city as part of the sale.
This tax on retail sales is paid by non-residents as well as
residents. Certain necessities of life, including purchases
of food or medicine, are exempt from the tax.

State and local tax on retail sales in Pinole is currently 9%
of the purchase price. The Measure authorizes a 0.5%
transactions and use tax, increasing the total sales tax rate
in Pinole from 9% to 9.5%. The tax increase proposed by
this measure would go only to the City. If approved, these
local funds may not be taken by the State or any other
governmental entity.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the additional half-cent
tax in Pinole, with annual audits. A “No” vote is a vote
against the tax.

A full copy of the proposed ordinance may be obtained
during business hours at the Office of the City Clerk,
City of Pinole, 2131 Pear Street, Pinole, CA 94564 and is

also available on the City of Pinole website at
http://www.ci.Dinole.ca.us/admin/revenue.html

Benjamin T. Reyes II
City Attorney, City of Pinole

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE S

The City of Pinole needs your help to pass this half*
cent sales-tax measure for the community’s benefit.
This measure will help to rebuild the city’s infrastructure;
provide corrective maintenance of our roads, city buildings,
parks, sewers, and storm drains; and address further state
mandates. Not addressing these matters will put all of
these city services in jeopardy and create greater debt
down the road.

Please support and pass this sales-tax measure. Pinole
survived the recent economic recession by initiating tough
budgetary decisions and following a predetermined path
of fiscal responsiveness, unlike some communities that
didn’t and are financially imperiled today.

In the past we have used grants for many services,
including, but not limited to, public safety. These grants that
include funding for firefighters and police officer positions
are ending soon.

Despite our efficiencies, we have residual needs. This
sales tax will generate $1.6 million, supporting police,
fire, public works, recreation, youth and senior
activities - all the essential services and amenities of
a full-service city.

This sales tax places the least burden on Pinole residents,
as the majority of the revenue will be generated by
residents from other communities who shop here.

And -100% of this tax will stay in Pinole; the state cannot
take any of it. Please help us maintain our high community
standards and our property values - and keep Pinole
“Pinole.” VOTE “YES” on Measure S.

Peter Murray, Mayor Pro Tern
Jeff Rubin, Citizen

Roy V. Swearingen, City Council Member

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE S

Why does the City of Pinole want to raise the Sales Tax by
1/2 cent? By law the City of Pinole is allowed to increase
sales taxes by a total of 1 cent. Thus far the City has only
raised sales taxes by 1/2 cent. Does the City need the
revenue? No.

The City of Pinole will have over $5 Million of reserves in
the General Fund (General Fund + Accumulated Measure
S + Return to Source Income from the County as a Result
of the Dissolution of the former Redevelopment Agency)
going into the 2014/2015 Fiscal Year or shortly thereafter.
The City also has over $5 Million in Reserves in the Sewer
Fund. The City is also applying for a $22 Million loan from
the State of California to make the State Water Board
mandated improvements. Sewer Rate increases is also
scheduled through the year 2017.

Sales Taxes have nearly recovered to the non-reafistic
levels of 2006 because of the sustainable growth at retail
outlets in Pinole. These Sales Taxes are expected to
continue to grow as new retail outlets have opened.

Property Taxes have recovered to above the peak of 2006.
Two reasons; (1) partial recovery of home values in Pinole
(2) dissolution of the former Redevelopment Agency has
given the City of Pinole a secondary revenue stream to the
property taxes. This secondary stream of is expected to
increase for the foreseeable future.

West Contra Costa Unified School District has agreed to
pay for all three SRO Police Officers at Pinole schools.

A grant specialist will be hired in 2014/2015 who will apply
for Police and Fire Grants such as the current SAFER
GRANT that the City has which will not expire until midway
through 2015/2016.

Anthony Gutierrez, Pinole Citizen

CC 107-019

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE S

If keeping Pinole, ‘‘Pinole” means non-transparency, dis-
honesty, intimidation, bullying and illegality, then vote
“Yes”. In the past City Staff have hidden the business of
the city from plain view, lied about their actions and have
violated both state and federal law.

Pinole was a self sufficient full service city funded by tax
payer dollars and not dependent on outsiders to support
our city. Outsiders perpetrate the majority of the crime in
our city and depending on outsiders only invite more crime,
such as the murder we witnessed at the beginning of 2014.

The City of Pinole has wasted hundreds of thousands of
dollars, if not millions pursuing inefficient poor choices. For
example; the now infamous illegal Verizon Cell Tower Fi-
asco in Pinole Valley is a case in point. What was to bring
in $24,000 annually has thus far cost the City over $450
Thousand in lost Revenue, due to lost productivity, legal
fees, and land purchases necessitated by this poor choice.
Pending litigation with Verizon could increase these losses
dramatically.

Also, the politically driven litigation with the Firefighters
Union is a second money drain to the city coffers, with the
potential of rising to over a million dollars.

Not a single penny from Measure S funds have been used
to support senior or any other recreational program. All
recreational programs are required to support themselves
as enterprise funds.

Send a strong message to City Hall and Vote “No” on the
tax measure.

Anthony Gutierrez, Pinole Citizen

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE S

The argument against this sales-tax measure is mislead-
ing.

Example, “The City also has over $5 Million in Reserves in
the Sewer Fund.” FACT: The City can legally use sewer-
fund money only for sewage collection and treatment,
not for General Fund expenses, such as Police, Fire,
and Recreation.

And, “Property Taxes have recovered to above the peak
of 2006.” FACT: The distribution of residual taxes from
the dissolution of the Redevelopment Agency created
a one-time spike in property-tax revenue from city-
owned property only. Property values have not risen
to above 2006 levels, as any homeowner in Pinole
knows.

It’s fair that everyone who shops in Pinole helps fund City
services.

Pinole's current operating budget only provides for mini-
mum staffing for Police and Fire personnel. Existing grants
fund 4 Police and 4 Firefighter positions. Grants are never
guaranteed. How will we maintain staffing when these
grants expire? Our existing tax base means maintaining
minimum staffing for Public Safety programs, requiring de-
ferred maintenance of critical public infrastructure.

The City’s roadways are valued at $50 million; less than
$500,000 is available for street maintenance. How will the
City fund the next multi-million-dollar repair of Fitzgerald
Drive, Pinole Valley Road, or San Pablo Avenue, when
they come due? There’s barely enough recurring revenue
from Countywide Measure J tax allocations for minimal
residential street repairs.

Pinole survived the recession by being well managed and
fiscally responsible. Please help keep Pinole a great place
to live and work.

Laurelle Martin, Pinole citizen/Chairperson, Pinole Youth
Commission

Judy Lee, Pinole citizen/Treasurer, City of Pinole

Dina Rosales, Pinole citizen/Owner, DMR Accounting and
Tax Solutions

Bob Alvarado, Pinole citizen/Executive Officer, Northern
California Carpenters Regional Council

CC 107-02