7/16/2014

BalloLSubmittal FormAlbanyl 12014. png

BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

□RiebI UieOnlf: 0*te Stamp

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
jurisdiction Name: Unified School District	BwtimDjiE November 4,2014

Note The information asit appeals vrittrin the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.

Insert ballot question text here:

To maintain excellent schools; preserve funding for science, art, music, library
services, and reading and math support; attract and retain exceptional teachers
and counselors; limit class sizes; and keep schools safe and technology and
textbooks up-to-date; shall Albany Unified School District replace an expiring
$159/year parcel tax with a temporary, six-year parcel tax of $278/year, with
senior and SS1/3SDI exemptions, adjustments for inflation, independent audits,
and all funds staying local to benefit Albany students?"

TYPE OF MEASURE

| ^| Regular Measure	|	|

Bond Measure

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

66.7	%

FULL TEXT OPTION

Fnll Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet

0

□

□

YES (note: must submit separate copy o/FuU Text along srifh tfrisfirm)
NO - A Full Test was not submitted

NO - Do not print, but it's accessible at______________________________

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

^CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)

CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)

Phone#:

Jf l a-SZti'

"i!





https 7/mai I .g oog I e.conVmai l/u/1/fepps/teresag %40tr a mutoJ a .conVI 46a6d92e36dc63a?pr oj ectof= 1

1/1

ABBREVIATED TEXT OF MEASURE

(This summarizes, in 75 words or less, the full text of the proposition which appears on Exhibit A above.)

"To maintain excellent schools; preserve funding for science, art, music, library services, and
reading and math support; attract and retain exceptional teachers and counselors; limit class
sizes; and keep schools safe and technology and textbooks up-to-date; shall Albany Unified
School District replace an expiring $159/year parcel tax with a temporary, six-year parcel tax of
$278/year, with senior and SSI/SSDI exemptions, adjustments for inflation, independent audits,
and all funds staying local to benefit Albany students?"

Tax - Yes

Tax - No

(SR136085.DOC)B-1

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE LL

ANALYSIS BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY COUNSEL OF AN ALBANY UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT QUALIFIED SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE

Measure LL, an Albany Unified School District ("District") special parcel tax measure,
seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy a six year special parcel tax in the amount
of $278 per year on each parcel of taxable real property, beginning July 1,2015, to fund the
programs set forth in the measure. The District’s voters previously authorized a special parcel
tax at the rate of $159 per year on each parcel, which expires on June 30, 2015.

School districts have the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of
the votes cast on the special tax proposal. (See Cal. Const. Art. XIIIA, § 4; Art. XIIIC, § 2; Cal.
Gov’t Code §§ 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 et seq.)

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the special
tax described above will be imposed annually for six years. The tax will be collected by the
Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner as
valorem property taxes are collected. Upon application to the District, an exemption from the
special parcel tax may be granted (a) to any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years
of age or older; (b) to any parcel owned and occupied by a person receiving Supplemental
Security Income for a disability, regardless of age; or (c) to any parcel owned and occupied by a
person receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly
income does not exceed 250% of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the
funding revenue will be used for the specific purposes set forth in the full text of the measure
printed in this sample ballot, including, but not limited to: funding for science, art, music, and
library services; attraction and retention of teachers and counselors; school safety and
maintenance; and classroom technology. The measure provides that the monies collected shall
be accounted for separately and shall be expended only for those purposes specified in the
measure. An independent financial auditor will monitor the collection and expenditures of the
special tax funds and file annual reports with the governing board.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the District will not be authorized to levy the special tax. The previously
authorized special tax in the amount of $159 per year per parcel will expire on June 30, 2015.

This measure is placed on the ballot by the governing board of the District.

DONNA R. ZIEGLER
County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure LL, which is printed in full in this
sample ballot pamphlet. If you desire an additional copy of the measure, please call the
Elections Official's office at (510) 272-6933 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. You
may also access the full text of the measure on the Alameda County website at the following
address: www.acgov.org/rov/.

MEASURE LL - ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Schools are the heart of the Albany community. They’re why we choose to raise our families
here and why our property values remain high. Albany has a long history of strong support for
our schools through parcel taxes. But our schools will LOSE CRITICAL FUNDING for teachers
and programs unless Albany voters pass Measure LL to replace an expiring tax.

Measure LL will continue a stable source of locally controlled funding that goes directly to
Albany schools; these funds cannot be taken by the state or go to other districts.

While Albany’s schools remain some of the best in the Bay Area, we still face challenges. As the
district has dealt with state budget cuts, class sizes have grown, music and arts have lost funding,
and schools have struggled to keep up with the latest technology. Albany must preserve this
source of local funding to keep our schools strong.

Although there have been some small state funding increases as California emerges from the
recession, Albany is still approximately $4 million per year below previous levels of funding.

We cannot afford to lose more.

Measure LL preserves funding for vital PROGRAMS AND STAFF including:

•	Reading and math support

•	Technology and science

•	Arts and music

•	Library services

•	Teachers and counselors

•	Manageable class sizes

•	Student safety

Measure LL includes an exemption for seniors over 65 and homeowners with disabilities. The
tax expires in six years and cannot be renewed without voter approval.

None of us can afford to let Albany’s schools deteriorate. It would be bad for kids, bad for home
values, and bad for our community. Strong schools make Albany strong. Please GIVE OUR
SCHOOLS THE MONEY THEY NEED by voting YES on Measure LL.

Direct Argument Signers

For Measure LL

Argument in Favor

1.	Pat Low

Albany Board of Education

2.	Joanne Wile
Albany Mayor

3.	Kerry Dunigan

Albany Teachers Association

4.	David Arkin

Architect & Business Owner

5.	Holly Taines White

Committee to Support Albany Parcel Tax for Schools

EXHIBIT A

FULL BALLOT TEXT
OF THE MEASURE

ALBANY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

PRESERVE FUNDING FOR ALBANY SCHOOLS ACT OF 2014

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the Albany Unified School District Preserve

Funding for Albany Schools Act of 2014 or as Measure_(designation to be assigned by County

registrar of Voters).

FINDINGS

A superior and comprehensive education program delivers many long-lasting benefits and
advantages to all the children and residents of a community.

The State's dire economic condition in recent years led the Governor and the California
Legislature to make drastic cuts in education funding, which cuts have yet to be restored.

The direct impact of these State cuts on local Albany schools has meant eliminating teaching
positions and student support staff.

While the recession may be over, Californians are still struggling to repay the debts incurred
during that time. Despite promises from Sacramento, the full funding guarantee to schools
enshrined in the California Constitution will not be realized for many years.

The District cannot rely upon the state to meet its needs. Without continuing to supplement
State funding at the local level, Albany's school-age children will be negatively impacted by
inadequate school funding.

An extension of Measure I, approved by Albany voters in 2009, and which expires on June 30,
2015, is necessary to protect the quality of education that Albany provides.

TERMS

Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this Proposition, the District shall be authorized
to levy a qualified special tax (education parcel tax) for six years, beginning on July 1, 2015, at
the rate of $278 per year on each parcel of taxable real property located wholly or partly within
the District.

{SR136085.DOQA-1

To account for the impact of inflation on the cost of delivering the classroom programs and
student services supported by the education parcel tax, the tax rate shall be adjusted annually as
the Board of Education shall determine, commencing July 1, 2016, by no more than the average
of the reported monthly or other periodic percentage changes in the Consumer Price Index-All
Urban Consumers, San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose area (Series CUURA422SA0) over the prior
twelve months, as of April 1 of each year, as published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,
rounded to the nearest dollar. If, in any given year, that index is not available, then the rate will
be adjusted based on the changes in the Consumer Price Index - All Urban Consumers (CPI-U).

If approved, the special taxes so authorized will entirely supersede and replace the special taxes
authorized by the District's voters with the approval of Measure I in 2009, effective July 1, 2015.
If this measure is not so approved, then the special taxes approved by Measure I shall continue
in effect only until June 30, 2015, at which point those special taxes shall cease to be in effect, in
accordance with the terms of Measure I.

During its term, the education parcel tax authorized by this Proposition shall be in addition to
any other existing parcel taxes or another tax enacted on the same date.

PURPOSES

Monies raised under this Preserve Funding for Albany Schools Act shall be authorized to be
used to maintain programs and services at risk as a direct result of a reduction in State funding
for schools, including but not limited to:

•	Preserve funding for science, art, music, library services, and reading and math support;

•	Attract and retain exceptional teachers and counselors;

•	Maintain manageable class sizes;

•	Keep schools safe and well maintained;

•	Keep classroom technology and textbooks and instructional materials up-to-date

and to restore and preserve other academic programs, instructional equipment, materials and
supplies from State budget cuts, to the extent of available funds.

EXEMPTIONS AND REBATES

The exemptions and rebate provided for below shall be available pursuant to procedures to be
prescribed by the Board of Education or otherwise as required by law or by the Alameda
County Tax Collector.

A. Senior Exemption. Any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older
shall be exempt from the education parcel tax upon proper application to the District. Senior
citizens with a current valid exemption from the District's education parcel taxes shall continue
to be exempt from this new tax and not be required to reapply.

{SR136085.DOC) A-2

B.	Supplemental Security Income Exemption. Any parcel owned and occupied by a person
receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, shall be exempt from
the education parcel tax upon proper application to the District.

C.	Social Security Disability Insurance Exemption. Any parcel owned and occupied by a
person receiving Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, regardless of age, whose yearly
income does not exceed 250 percent of the 2012 federal poverty guidelines issued by the United
States Department of Health and Human Services, shall be exempt from the education parcel
tax upon proper application to the District.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the education parcel tax, the Board of Education
shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to Government
Code Section 50075.1. For so long as the tax is collected, the Superintendent of the District shall
cause an independent financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of
Education no later than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2016, stating (1)
the amount collected and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or
description of any programs funded. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or
other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be
incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to
the Board of Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this Proposition shall constitute the specific
purposes of the education parcel tax, and proceeds thereof shall be applied only for such
purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The -education parcel tax shall be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector at
the same time and in the same manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem
property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the
same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. Any tax levied will become
a lien upon the properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible

The education parcel tax shall be due with respect to every parcel of real property in the District
which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Alameda County
Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are
levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the education parcel
tax in such year. In addition, parcels may be exempt from the education parcel tax as described
above under "EXEMPTIONS AND REBATES".

{SR136085.DOC} A-3

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels to the Alameda County tax collection
officials which the District has approved for an exemption in accordance with this Proposition.
The Alameda County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any
parcel from taxation, other than through either of said exemptions, shall be final and binding
for the purposes of the education parcel tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County
Assessor's determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of
property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other
applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of any tax paid shall follow the procedures
applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

The Board of Education may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems
necessary or convenient for the administration of the education parcel tax.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

In the event the Congress or State Legislature enacts any law, or the U.S. Department of
Education, or the State Department of Education or State Board of Education adopts any rule,
providing that other funding to which the District would otherwise be entitled will be reduced
as a result of the District's income from the education parcel tax, the Board of Education may
take action as soon as practicable to reduce the amount or rate of the education parcel tax such
that the amount collected will not cause such other funding to be reduced.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Proposition concur,
that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this Proposition has independent value,
and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof
regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this Proposition by the voters,
should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

{SR136085.DOCJA-4

EXHIBIT B

ABBREVIATED TEXT OF MEASURE

(This summarizes, in 75 words or less, the full text of the proposition which appears on Exhibit A above.)

"To maintain excellent schools; preserve funding for science, art, music, library services, and
reading and math support; attract and retain exceptional teachers and counselors; limit class
sizes; and keep schools safe and technology and textbooks up-to-date; shall Albany Unified
School District replace an expiring $159/year parcel tax with a temporary, six-year parcel tax of
$278/year, with senior and SSI/SSDI exemptions, adjustments for inflation, independent audits,
and all funds staying local to benefit Albany students?"

Tax - Yes

Tax - No

{SR136085.DOQB-1

FORMAL NOTICE OF SCHOOL PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Albany Unified School District of
Alameda County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code of
the State of California, an election will be held on November 4, 2014, at which election the
following local funding measure shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the District and
voted upon:

"To maintain excellent schools; preserve funding for science, art,
music, library services, and reading and math support; attract and
retain exceptional teachers and counselors; limit class sizes; and
keep schools safe and technology and textbooks up-to-date; shall
Albany Unified School District replace an expiring $159/year
parcel tax with a temporary, six-year parcel tax of $278/year, with
senior and SSI/SSDI exemptions, adjustments for inflation,
independent audits, and all funds staying local to benefit Albany
students?"

Tax - Yes	Tax	-	No

All of the purposes enumerated in the foregoing measure shall be united and voted upon as one
single measure.

The County Superintendent of Schools of Alameda County, by this Notice of Election, has called
the election pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Education of the Albany Unified School

District, adopted __________, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of Education Code

Sections 5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day of vSto'te . 2014.

County Superintendent for Schools,
Alameda County, California

{SR136085.DOQC-1