GOVERNING BOARD
OF THE

ACALANES UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
COUNTY OF CONTRA COSTA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolution No. 13-14-11

RESOLUTION CALLING PARCEL TAX ELECTION

WHEREAS, a superior and comprehensive education program delivers many long-
lasting benefits and advantages to all the children and residents of our community;

WHEREAS, it is essential the Acalanes Union High School District (the “District”)
have stable, reliable, local funding to maintain its quality academic programs;

WHEREAS, essential elements of maintaining our excellent schools include
attracting and retaining highly qualified teachers, keeping our textbooks and instructional materials
up-to-date; providing comprehensive curricular programs, and keeping our schools safe and well-
maintained;

WHEREAS, the District is committed to maintaining manageable class sizes;

WHEREAS, the District’s voters and community have supported the students and
programs in local high schools by passing supplemental local funding consistently for over 20 years;

WHEREAS, Measure A will expire in 2015, leaving critical educational programs at
risk of being terminated for lack of funding;

WHEREAS, the State has budgeted increased funding for local schools in the
coming years as the Local Control Funding Formula is implemented;

WHEREAS, the increased state funding coming from the State will not be enough
to offset the loss in revenue caused by Measure A expiring;

WHEREAS, continuation of a parcel tax for local high schools will help preserve
funding to advanced academic programs, including science, mathematics, technology, music, and
arts courses; and help maintain library services and hours;

WHEREAS, property values in our community are positively affected and directly
maintained by the quality of education provided at Acalanes High School, Campolindo High School,
Las Lomas High School, Miramonte High School and alternative high school programs;

WHEREAS, Section 2(d) of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution requires an
election to be conducted before any special tax may be imposed, and Section 4 of Article XIIIA of
the California Constitution, and Government Code Section 50079 authorize a school district, upon
approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the proposition, to levy a qualified special tax on
real property other than ad valorem taxes (or transaction or sales taxes on the sale of real property) for
specified purposes pursuant to the procedures set forth in part at California Government Code
Section 50075;

WHEREAS, Sections 1500 and 4000 of the California Elections Code authorize the
District to conduct such an election by mail on an established all-mailed ballot election date;

WHEREAS, May 6, 2014, is an established all-mailed ballot election date;

WHEREAS, this Governing Board has held a public hearing after due notice
regarding this resolution and the parcel tax election proposed hereby, pursuant to California
Government Code Section 50077;

WHEREAS, the District’s boundaries have not changed since the November 5,
2013 election; and

WHEREAS, the District is located entirely within the County of Contra Costa (the
“County”), and the Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools has jurisdiction over the
District;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Governing Board of the
Acalanes Union High School District as follows:

1.	Recitals. This Governing Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing
recitals are true and correct.

2.	Order of Election: Specifications of Ballot Measure. This resolution shall stand as
the order to the Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools to call an election by mail within
the boundaries of the District on May 6, 2014, for the purpose of proposing to the electors of the
District the proposition contained in Exhibit A hereto. The authority for the specifications of this
election order is contained in Sections 5304 and 5322 of the California Education Code and Sections
50075-77 and 50079 of the California Government Code.

This Governing Board hereby requests the Registrar of Voters of the County of
Contra Costa (the “Registrar of Voters”) to submit to the voters of the District at said election the
proposition as it appears in Exhibit A.

3.	Filing of Order of Election. The Secretary of this Governing Board is ordered to
cause certified copies of this resolution and order to be delivered not later than Thursday, January
30, 2014, to the Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools, and not later than Thursday,
February, 6, 2014, to the Registrar of Voters and the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the
County.

4.	Formal Notice. The Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools is hereby
requested to prepare and execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B (the “Formal Notice”), and to call the election by

2

causing the Formal Notice to be posted in every schoolhouse in the District and at three public
places in the District, in accordance with Section 5362 of the Education Code, no later than
Thursday, January 30, 2014, or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by law.
The Secretary of this Governing Board, on behalf of and as may be requested by the County
Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to cause all notices required by law in connection herewith
to be published and posted, as the case may be.

5.	Conduct of Election, (a) Request to Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to Section 5303 of
the Education Code, the Registrar of Voters is required to, and is hereby requested to, take all steps
to hold the election in accordance with law and these specifications.

(b)	Rallot and Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar of Voters is requested to cause the exact
wording of the Abbreviation of the Measure contained in Exhibit A-I to appear on the ballot, and to
print the Full Text of the Measure contained in Exhibit A-II in the voter information pamphlet to
be distributed to voters pursuant to the Elections Code. The full text of the measure is all that text
in Appendix A hereto between the indicators “BEGINNING OF FULL TEXT OF

MEASURE----------------»»»”	and “««<.................END	OF	FULL	TEXT OF

MEASURE.”

(c)	Consolidation. The Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools and the Board
of Supervisors of the County are requested to order consolidation of the election with such other
elections as may be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same,
pursuant to Education Code Section 5342 and Section 10400 and following of the Elections Code.

(d)	Canvass of Results. The Board of Supervisors of the County is authorized to
canvass the returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

(e)	Required Vote. The proposition shall become effective upon approval of two-
thirds of those voting thereon.

(f)	Election Costs. This Governing Board shall pay all costs of the election approved
by the Board of Supervisors of the County, pursuant to Education Code Section 5421.

6.	Appropriations Limit. This Governing Board shall provide in each year (pursuant
to Section 7902.1 of the Government Code or any successor provision of law) for any increase in
the District’s appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds of the proposed tax
may be spent for the authorized purposes.

7.	Ballot Argument. The President of this Governing Board, or any member or
members of this Board as the President shall designate, is hereby authorized, but not directed, to
prepare and file with the Registrar of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained
in Exhibit A-II hereof, within the time established by the Registrar of Voters, which shall be
considered the official ballot argument of this Board as sponsor of the proposition.

OHSUSA:756210417.10

3

8.	Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption by a
two-thirds vote of all of the members of this Board.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 30th day of January 2014, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Kathleen R. Coppersmith
President of the Governing Board
Acalanes Union High School District

ATTEST:

Susan L. Epstein

Clerk of the Governing Board

Acalanes Union High School District

OHSUSA:756210417.10

4

EXHIBIT A-I

PARCEL TAX MEASURE TEXT

I.	ABBREVIATION OF THE MEASURE

[This summarises, in 75 words or less, perfections Code word counting rules, the full
text of the proposition which appears in the following pages.]

In order to preserve the high quality of education in our local high schools,
continue offering advanced courses in math, science, technology, music and
the arts, attract and retain highly qualified teachers, and maintain manageable
class sizes, shall the Acalanes Union High School District, with no increase in
the current rate, continue to levy a $112 per-parcel tax with an exemption for
seniors, and all money staying in our community to benefit our local high
schools?

OHSUSA:756210417.10

A-5

EXHIBIT A-II

FULL TEXT OF THE MEASURE
BEGINNING OF FULL TEXT OF MEASURE-----»»»

ACALANES UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SUSTAIN EDUCATIONAL EXCELLENCE ACT OF 2014

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Acalanes Union High School

District Sustain Educational Excellence Act of 2014” or as “Measure______________”. [designation to be assigned

by County Registrar of Voters]

FINDINGS

The Acalanes Union High School District (the “District”), comprising Acalanes
High School, Campolindo High School, Las Lomas High School, Miramonte High School, and
alternate high school programs, is one of the top-ranked high school districts in the State, and has
been able to offer its students an outstanding educational opportunity for many years.

Measure A, passed in 2010, expires in 2015, and the programs supported by Measure
A will be at risk unless the District secures additional funding.

Although the State Budget for 2013-14 and the proposed state budget for 2014-15
proposes to restore a portion of the funding for California high schools that was cut or deferred
during the fiscal crisis, the new formula being used to distribute money to California high schools
will not provide enough funding to offset the loss of revenue caused by Measure A’s expiration.

Extending Measure A will help the District preserve funding for advanced academic
programs, including science, mathematics, technology, arts, and music; and maintain library hours.

By renewing the District’s current Measure A, local voters can ensure that our
schools will continue to receive a stable, reliable, local source of funding.

TERMS OF

SUSTAIN EDUCATIONAL EXCELLENCE TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this
Proposition, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax annually on each parcel of
taxable real property in the District commencing July 1, 2015. The qualified special tax shall be
known and referred to as the “Sustain Educational Excellence Tax.” The amount of the Sustain
Educational Excellence Tax shall be $112.00 per parcel per year.

A-6

The Sustain Educational Excellence Tax shall renew the existing Measure A tax
approved by the voters of the District on May 4, 2010, which expires by its own terms on June 30,

2015.

Proceeds of the Sustain Educational Excellence Tax shall be authorized to be used
to provide financial support to school programs, as follows:

1.	Fund advanced courses in math, science, technology, music and the arts;

2.	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

3.	Keep textbooks and instructional materials up-to-date;

4.	Maintain manageable class sizes;

5.	Provide librarians, counselors, and career training;

6.	Keep technology up-to-date; and

7.	To the extent funds are available, to maintain the District’s academic programs,
including the purchase of instructional equipment, materials and supplies.

SENIOR CITIZEN EXEMPTION

In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community, any parcel owned
and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt from the Sustain Educational
Excellence Tax upon proper application to the District. The exemption shall be available pursuant
to procedures to be prescribed by the District’s Governing Board or otherwise as required by law or
by the Contra Costa County Tax Collector. Senior citizens with a current valid exemption from
District’s Emergency Education Act, also known as “Measure A,” shall not be required to reapply
for an exemption from the Sustain Educational Excellence Tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Governing Board shall establish
an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee (which may be the existing Measure A oversight
committee) to ensure that proceeds of the Sustain Educational Excellence Tax are spent wisely and
only for the purposes named in this Proposition. The Governing Board shall provide by resolution
for the composition, duties, funding and other necessary information regarding the Committee’s
formation and operation.

Annual Report. Upon the levy and collection of the Sustain Educational Excellence
Tax, the Governing Board shall cause an account to be established for the deposit of the proceeds,
pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1. For so long as any proceeds remain unexpended,
the Superintendent or Associate Superintendent, Business Services of the District shall cause a
report to be filed with the Governing Board no later than December 31 of each year, commencing
December 31, 2016, stating (1) the amount collected and expended in such year, and (2) the status of
any projects or description of any programs funded. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal
year, or other appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine, and may be incorporated
into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Governing
Board.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this Proposition shall constitute the
specific purposes of the Sustain Educational Excellence Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be
applied only for such purposes.

A-7

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Sustain Educational Excellence Tax shall be collected by the Contra Costa
County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner and shall be subject to the
same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes
shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

"Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in the
District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Contra Costa County
Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are
levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Sustain Educational
Excellence Tax in such year. In addition, parcels may be exempt from the education parcel tax as
described above under "SENIOR CITIZEN EXEMPTION”.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels to the Contra Costa County tax
collection officials which the District has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption. The Contra
Costa County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel from
taxation, other than through the Senior Citizen Exemption, shall be final and binding for the
purposes of the Sustain Educational Excellence Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County
Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of
property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other
applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Sustain Educational Excellence Tax paid shall
follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and
Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Governing Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Proposition
concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this Proposition has independent value,
and the Governing Board and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of
every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this Proposition by the voters, should any part be
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof
shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

««<------END of full text of measure.

A-8

EXHIBIT B

FORM OF

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Acalanes Union
High School District of Contra Costa County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of
the Education Code, the Elections Code, and the Government Code of the State of California, an
election will be held on May 6, 2014, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the
District the proposition summarized as follows:

[This summarises, in 75 words or less, the full text of the proposition which appears

below.]

In order to preserve the high quality of education in our local high schools,
continue offering advanced courses in math, science, technology, music and
the arts, attract and retain highly qualified teachers, and maintain manageable
class sizes, shall the Acalanes Union High School District, with no increase in
the current rate, continue to levy a $112 per-parcel tax with an exemption for
seniors, and all money staying in our community to benefit our local high
schools?

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the County Superintendent of
Schools of Contra Costa County orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as
may be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The County Superintendent of Schools of Contra Costa County, by this Notice of
Election, has called the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Governing Board of the
Acalanes Union High School District adopted January 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions
of Education Code Sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day, January 30, 2014.

County Superintendent of Schools
Contra Costa County, California

OHSUSA:756210417.10

CLERICS CERTIFICATE

I, Susan L. Epstein, Clerk of the Governing Board of the Acalanes Union High
School District, County of Contra Costa, California, do hereby certify as follows:

The attached is a full, true and correct copy of a resolution duly adopted at a special
meeting of the Governing Board duly and regularly held at the regular meeting place thereof on
January 30, 2014, and entered in the minutes thereof, of which meeting all of the members of said
Governing Board had due notice and at which a quorum thereof was present, and said resolution
was adopted by the following vote:

AYES

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

At least 24 hours before the time of the meeting, a written notice and agenda of
the meeting was mailed and received by or personally delivered to each member of the Governing
Board not having waived notice thereof, and to each local newspaper of general circulation, radio,
and television station requesting such notice in writing, and was posted in a location freely accessible
to members of the public, and a brief description of the resolution appeared on the agenda.

I have carefully compared the same with the original minutes of said meeting on file
and of record in my office. Said resolution has not been amended, modified or rescinded since the
date of its adoption, and the same is now in full force and effect.

WITNESS my hand this 30th day of January 2014.

Susan L. Epstein
Clerk of the Governing Board
Acalanes Union High School District

OHSU S A: 756210417.4