Ballot question

The official ballot question for Measure LC was:

u

To protect quality La Canada schools with funds the State
cannot take; continue

advanced academic programs in math/science/technology;
attract/retain qualified

teachers; maintain manageable class sizes; and prepare students
for top

colleges/careers, shall La Canada Unified School District renew
the expiring annual

school parcel tax and increase the rate by $300 (as described in
the ballot pamphlet) for seven years, with exemptions for seniors,

JJ

independent oversight, no money for administrator salaries
and funds under local control?[i][4]

Full text

The first three sections of the text of the legislation proposed by
Measure LC are below. See this page for a copy of the full text.

PURPOSE

The purpose of this measure is to renew and increase expiring
locally controlled school funding to offset the local impact of cuts
in State education funding for the District and provide the funding
needed to sustain the outstanding quality of local public
instruction offered in the District’s schools by generating a source
of local revenue that cannot be taken by the State. Funds from
this measure will go to continuing advanced academic programs
in math, science and technology; attracting and retaining qualified
teachers; maintaining manageable class sizes; and preparing
students for the best colleges and careers,. Sustaining the
outstanding quality of local public instruction offered in La Canada
schools also helps to protect property values within our
community.

The Governing Board will use the funds for all of the purposes
stated above, unless the Governing Board determines in any
given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints,
or other changes in state or federal funding make doing so
unfeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Governing Board will
not use the funds for any purpose other than those listed above
from the proceeds of the special taxes.

Approval of this measure shall renew the existing qualified special
tax of $150 per parcel and increase that rate by $300, so that the
total amount to be levied is $450 per parcel of taxable real
property per year for seven years, beginning July 1, 2014.

RATE

The tax shall be levied on all Parcels of Taxable Real Property in
the District, as defined below, on the following basis:

Type of Parcel Rate of Annual Tax All Parcels Not to exceed Four
Hundred Fifty Dollars ($450.00) per parcel

DEFINITIONS

A “parcel of taxable real property” is defined as any unit of real
property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad
valorem property taxes from the County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s
Office. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which
no ad valorem property taxes are levied in any year shall also be
exempt from the special tax in such year.

Any parcels that are contiguous to each other, in actual use as
one residential or non- residential economic unit, and held under
identical ownership shall, upon approval of an application from the
owners thereof submitted to the District, be treated as a single
parcel for purposes of the special tax. Applications for such
treatment shall be made to

the District on or before July 1,2014, or before July 1 of any
succeeding tax year. Any

one approved application from a qualified applicant will provide for
such treatment for

the remaining term of the special tax, so long as all of the parcels
continue to be held

under identical ownership and are * in actual use as one

residential or non-residential

economic unit.[i][4]