	Official Use Only: Date Stamp
BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL	RECEIVED  Alameda County
FORM	JUL 1 0 2014
	Reg. of Voters

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
Jurisdiction Name: cjty Qf Ber|^g|ey	Election Date: ^ ^ /4/2Q14

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.
Insert ballot question text here:

Shall the parks special tax be amended to sustain community parks like the Rose
Garden, children’s playgrounds, tennis, basketball courts, and ball fields, by increasing
the per square foot tax rate from $0.1256 to, $0 1466 and, adding an inflation factor?

j Financial Implications

The annual cost increase in fiscal yeqr 201.6 would be $39.90, frorn $238.64 to
1 $278.54, for a 1,900 square foot home and $21.0, from $1256.00 to $1466.00, for a
; 10,000 square foot building.

TYPE OF MEASURE

0 Regular Measure 1	|	Bond	Measure

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

Two-thirds (2/3)

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

0 YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along xmth this form)

□	NO - A Full Text was not submitted

□	NO - Do not print, but it's accessible at:________________________

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

Print Name:

Mark Numainville

Date:

July 10,2014

Signature:

CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)

CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)

Phone #:

Phone #:

510-981-6900

Ballot Question

Shall the parks special tax be amended to sustain community parks like the Rose Garden,
children’s playgrounds, tennis, basketball courts, and ball fields, by increasing the per square
foot tax rate from $0.1256 to $0.1466 and adding an inflation factor?

Financial Implications

The annual cost increase in fiscal year 2016 would be $39.90, from $238.64 to $278.54, for a
1,900 square foot home and $210, from $1256.00 to $1466.00, for a 10,000 square foot
building.

City Attorney's Impartial Analysis

The proposed measure would increase the existing special tax for parks, trees and landscaping
maintenance by 2.1 cents per square foot, from $0.1256 to $0.1466, to fund deferred and
ongoing maintenance and operation of City parks and recreational facilities, such as the Rose
garden, childrens’ playgrounds, ball fields, and tennis and basketball courts. It would also add a
new inflation adjustment. Currently the tax rate is adjusted according to the consumer price
index in the San Francisco Bay Area. The amendment would allow the rate to be adjusted
according to the consumer price index or per capita income growth in the state of California.

The proposed increase would represent an approximately 16.7% increase in the existing tax
rate. It is estimated that the total tax, including the proposed increase, would cost residential
and other taxpayers no more than the following average amounts during FY 2016:

Square Feet	Current	Annual	Tax	Proposed	Annual	Tax

1,200	$150.72	$175.92
1,500	$188.40	$219.90
1,900	$238.64	$278.54
3,000	$376.80	$439.80
10,000	$1256.00	$1,466.00

This proposed ordinance was placed on the ballot by the City Council.

/s/ ZACH COWAN
Berkeley City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Berkeley Parks Urgently Need Help

Since 1974, Berkeley has doubled our park acreage, bringing the total to 52 parks, 30 park buildings, 100
pathways and 35,000 trees in the urban forest. In the last decade, growth in total population has increased
both park usage and the cost of keeping our parks safe and clean. Heavy use and weather have also taken
a toll on park facilities, which urgently need repair. Although the City has reduced park staffing by 25%
and cutback on maintenance, the parks’ budget faces a deficit. Without a modest increase in the parks
tax, it will be necessary to cut services in all of our parks, reduce landscaping and tree care, and consider
closing some parks.

All Funds Go Directly to Parks, Landscaping and Trees

Measure F will ensure that our park heritage is properly cared for. It will improve Berkeley’s precious
parks, from the waterfront to the hills, from Aquatic Park to the Rose Garden, including tot lots,
playgrounds, sports fields, basketball and tennis courts, and care for landscaped medians and city street
trees. It will also ensure that the buildings in our parks, centers of activities from wheelchair basketball to
art exhibits, are kept in good shape.

Parks Meet Basic Human Needs and Build Community

Parks and city landscaping are vital to every neighborhood. No matter where you live in Berkeley, your
age or occupation, everybody needs a city that is beautiful, livable and healthy, with activity centers for
children that are walkable from all neighborhoods. Parks provide healthy activities for our children and
youth, recreation for all ages, a place for festivals and informal gathering at the community level that
builds communities in our neighborhoods.

We Love Our Parks: Let’s Take Care of Them

VOTE YES ON MEASURE F

s/Nancy Bickel

President, League of Women Voters of Berkeley, Albany, Emeryville
s/Douglas Fielding

Chairperson Association of Sports Field Users

s/Loni Hancock
State Senator

s/James McGrath

Chairman, Parks and Waterfront Commission
s/Sylvia McLaughlin

Environmental Pioneer; Co-Founder, Save San Francisco Bay Association

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F

AS PARKS TAX REVENUES ROSE, OUR PARKS DECAYED

The original 1997 parks measure promised to fund parks, trees and landscaping maintenance. The
original tax rate and the revenue generated have since almost doubled. The average homeowner already
pays $240 annually for parks. Yet today we have far fewer maintenance staff (down 26% from 2002)
being compensated substantially more each, and very deteriorated facilities. There is a $5M backlog just
in basic repairs. Capital projects have been shelved. This is gross mismanagement.

Now the City wants 17% more annually and a bigger inflator! But new money will go into a dark hole of
ever-increasing employee costs—underwriting huge City pension liabilities (to S58.4M annually in 2020
from $43M today) and growing health care costs.

$1B IN UNFUNDED LIABILITIES AND NO PLAN

Similar mismanagement pervades all City operations. Despite substantially increasing revenues, the City
has substantially less money for actual services. Employee compensation absorbs most new moneys. We
have a $1B unfunded liability for employee benefit costs and infrastructure. We urge a NO vote on
Berkeley tax measures until we have a comprehensive Fiscal Action Plan and a Blue Ribbon panel to
address this looming insolvency.

THIS TAX INCREASE WOULD WORSEN THE PROBLEM AND DELAY FAIRER ALLOCATION OF
COSTS

Nickel-and-diming taxpayers and threatening loss of facilities (witness Willard Pool!) is wrong and won’t
even solve the big budget problem. We need a sound and transparent long-term fiscal plan that includes
fairer contributions from ALL stakeholders—City employees, UC, developers, philanthropists—and not
just taxpayers who already pay too much and get too little.

Voting for this tax increase would delay and worsen the day of reckoning. A NO vote will incentivize City
managers, employees, Council and other stakeholders to start fixing the big fiscal problem.

We urge you to vote NO.

s/David M. Wilson
Director, Berkeley Budget SOS

s/Barbara Gilbert

Treasurer, Committee for FACTS (Fiscal Accountability, Clarity, Transparency, and Sustainability)
s/Isabelle Gaston

President, Northeast Berkeley Association (NEBA)
s/Nigel Guest

President, Council of Neighborhood Associations (CNA)
s/Karl J. Reeh

President, LeConte Neighborhood Association

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

WE TOO LOVE OUR PARKS AND OUR OTHER BERKELEY AMENITIES, BUT...
MEASURE F WON’T ENSURE THAT OUR PARKS ARE CARED FOR

Despite a cornucopia of promises, proponents don’t specify exactly where the new tax money would
go. They even admit that, despite doubled revenue, staffing has been cut drastically. Will revenue
be used simply to cover growing benefit contributions for remaining parks employees (who
currently pay zero for retirement, health insurance, and other benefits)? Who knows?

Consider the original 1997 parks measure which made similar promises

httD:llnortheastberkelevassociation.orglreferencelMavl997VoterInformationPanwhlet.vdf

and consider the current situation. Despite the promises, as revenues doubled our parks decayed
and the number of park employees shrank. Our parks were not underfunded, they were
mismanaged. This is not likely to change.

OUR OFFICIALS REFUSE TO ADDRESS THE UNDERLYING ISSUE OF TRUE
SUSTAINABILITY FOR CURRENT AND FUTURE GENERATIONS

Quick short-term fixes paid by hard-pressed homeowners (most lacking lush benefits) do not
address the problem of deep structural deficit and municipal financial sustainability. With huge
costs looming for employee benefits and capital improvements, there is no long-term plan or effort
to share the cost burden among other big stakeholders—especially, City employees, UC, developers.
Without a plan and fairer cost-sharing, our facilities, services and amenities will continue to
deteriorate. We will have fewer and fewer City employees, each compensated at ever-higher levels.
View compensation levels at

httv:llmiblicva\.ca.govlRevortslCitieslCitv.asvx?entitxid=61&fiscal\ear=2012

JOIN YOUR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS IN DEMANDING FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY,
CLARITY, TRANSPARENCY AND SUSTAINABILITY. DO NOT CAPITULATE TO
EXTORTION. VOTE NO ON MEASURE F.

s/David M. Wilson
Director, Berkeley Budget SOS

s/Barbara Gilbert

Treasurer, Committee for FACTS (Fiscal Accountability, Clarity, Transparency, and Sustainability)
s/Isabelle Gaston

President, Northeast Berkeley Association (NEBA)
s/Nigel Guest

President, Council of Neighborhood Associations (CNA)
s/Karl J. Reeh

President, LeConte Neighborhood Association

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F

Livable Cities Need Healthy Parks

Opponents of the Park Tax increase agree that we have “very deteriorated facilities,” yet urge you to vote
no, because they take issue with the City’s overall budget. Yet delaying major maintenance only
increases long term costs as buildings and facilities continue to deteriorate.

Currently, around $10 million is generated by the existing park tax. This is just over 3% of the City
budget. The proposed tax increase would generate about $1.7 million or 0.5% of the City budget. Voting
no on this measure will not change the City’s budget picture—but it will result in the deterioration or
closure of some of Berkeley’s parks.

Berkeley has taken SIGNIFICANT steps to address the concerns raised by the opponents. Between
2009 and 2014, the City eliminated about 250 jobs—15% of the work force. Most city employees have
not received a cost of living increase in three years.

Just as literacy is an important community value reflected in a special tax for our five libraries, so too is
ensuring that our parks and recreation centers, our “outdoor living rooms,” are properly cared for and
repaired. Measure F makes a modest investment in a legacy we inherited, parks and open spaces from our
cherished Rose Garden to our smallest tot lots, built and cared for by Berkeley residents of every
generation.

Support Healthy Living. Join the Sierra Club, City Auditor and a host of park supporters and VOTE
YES FOR PARKS.

s/Nancy Bickel

President, League of Women Voters of Berkeley, Albany, Emeryville
s/Josh Daniels

Berkeley School Board President

s/Ann-Marie Hogan
City Auditor

s/Toni Mester

Vice-Chair, Parks and Waterfront Commission; Sierra Club No. Alameda Co. Executive Committee

s/Susan Wengraf
Berkeley City Council

ORDINANCE NO. #,###-N.S.

INCREASING THE PARKS, TREES AND LANDSCAPING MAINTENANCE

TAX

BE IT ORDAINED by the people of the City of Berkeley as follows:

Section 1. Sub-section 7.10.020.B of the Berkeley Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

B.	The tax rate for the fiscal year 2001-02 2016 shall be St9Q^ $0.1466 per
square foot of taxable improvements provided that this rate shall be increased or
decreased annually in May 2001 pursuant to Section 7.10.020.D to account for
changes in the cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area during the period of
May 2000 to May 2001.

Section 2. Sub-section 7.10.020.C of the Berkeley Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

C.	The tax imposed by this chapter shall be operative on July 1,49972015.

Section 3. Sub-section 7.10.020.D of the Berkeley Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

D.	The tax sfraU-mav be increased or decreased annually in May, according to
the greater of the increase or decrease in the cost of living in the immediate San
Francisco Bay Area or personal income growth in the state of California, as
verified by official United States economic reports.

Section 4. Section 7.10.110 of the Berkeley Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

7.10.110 Increase appropriations limit.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriation limit for the City
is increased by the aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this special tax for
each of the four fiscal years from 20163-44 through 20196-47.

1