Measure C

High Quality Education and Local Control Funding
Milpitas Unified School District

Parcel Tax - 2/3 Approval Required

Without increasing the current tax rate and to continue high quality education for
local elementary, middle and high school students by maintaining strong academic
programs in science, math, engineering, reading and writing, preparing students
for college and 21st Century careers, and retaining highly qualified teachers, shall
Milpitas Unified School District renew its expiring $84 education parcel tax for 8
years with citizen oversight, no funds for administrators' salaries, senior citizen
exemptions and all funds staying in local schools?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to renew the school parcel tax of $84 per parcel on parcels
within the District for eight years.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote not to renew the school parcel tax of $84 per parcel on
parcels within the District for eight years.

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel, Santa
Clara County

A school district may levy a special tax upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on a measure pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and sections 50075 etseq. of the California Government Code.

On June 8, 2010, voters of the Milpitas Unified School District (District) approved
Measure B, a school parcel tax of $84 per parcel per year, which expires June 30, 2015.

The District's Board of Education (the Board) proposes Measure C, which would renew
Measure B and maintain the same tax of $84 per parcel per year previously approved by
the voters of the District on June 8,2010. If Measure C is approved, an eight-year parcel
tax of $84 per parcel per year will commence on July 1, 2015 and expire on June 30,
2023.

Any owners of a parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes and who are either (a) 65 years of age or older on or before June 30 of the
fiscal year immediately preceding the year in which the tax would apply, or (b) persons
receiving Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, may obtain
an exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an application, by June 15 of any year,
to the District. Any person who currently receives an exemption under Measure B, will
automatically qualify for an exemption under Measure C.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which the tax proceeds
will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for these purposes. The stated

purposes of the tax proposed by Measure C are to: (1) improve core academic programs
in math, science, reading and writing; (2) maintain programs to prepare students for
college and 21st century careers; (3) continue innovative teaching programs in science,
technology, engineering and math; and (4) attract and retain highly qualified and
experienced teachers.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability measures for the tax
proceeds. The District will ensure that the proceeds are deposited into a fund that is
separate and apart from other District funds, maintain its existing Citizens' Oversight
Committee that oversees the expenditure of the proceeds of the proposed tax revenues,
and submit an annual report to the Board on the amount of funds collected and
expended from the tax proceeds and the status of any projects or programs required or
authorized to be funded from the tax proceeds.

Measure C was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A "yes" vote is a vote to renew the school parcel tax of $84 per parcel on parcels within
the District for eight years.

A "no" vote is a vote not to renew the school parcel tax of $84 per parcel on parcels
within the District for eight years.

Orry P. Korb
County Counsel

By: /s/Neysa Fligor
Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure C

Vote Yes on C to maintain strong core academic programs in science, math,
reading and writing and prepare Milpitas graduates for success, without
increasing taxes bv a single penny.

Milpitas schools provide a high quality education to local elementary, middle and high
school students, with high student test scores, excellent teachers and strong academic
programs.

Our strong local schools make our neighborhoods desirable, attracting new families to
our community, protecting property values for all of us, even if we don't have children
currently attending school.

Measure C renews existing, voter-approved funding that supports the keys to student
success-outstanding educational programs and qualified teachers. This vital source of
funding helps prepare graduates for college and future 21st-century careers by
supporting innovative programs in science, engineering, technology and math.

Measure C gives our schools local control to deliver excellent education in the
classroom. Every penny of Measure C stays in our schools and cannot be taken by the
state.

Vote YES on C to:

•	Maintain core academic programs in science, math, reading and writing

•	Continue innovative teaching programs in science, technology, engineering and
math to help graduates succeed

•	Protect programs that prepare students for college and 21st-century careers

•	Attract and retain highly qualified, experienced teachers

Measure C: Great Milpitas Schools, No New Taxes

•	Measure C renews existing, voter-approved funding for Milpitas schools without
increasing taxes

•	All funds stay in local schools and can't be taken by the state

•	Independent citizen oversight and annual audits ensure all funds are spent as
promised

•	No funds can be used for administrators' salaries

•	Homeowners, aged 65 and older, can receive an exemption

•	Measure C expires in 8 years and cannot be renewed without voter approval

Join parents, educators and local community leaders. Support student success
in Milpitas-Vote Yes on C.

/s/ Julie McMullen

Immediate Past Milpitas PTA Council President
/s/ Robert Jung

CEO, Milpitas Community Educational Foundation
/s/ D. Jean Baker

Retiree and Milpitas Unified School District Citizen Oversight Committee

/s/ Jeffrey S. Lamb

34 Year Milpitas High Teacher

/s/ Robert Nunes

Director, Milpitas Chamber of Commerce

Rebuttal to Arguments For

Proponents of this tax extension say you should support this to "maintain strong core
academic programs in science, math, reading and writing".

Really?

Let's look at the STAR student test scores and see if they're delivering what they
promise.

Subject	2012-13	2011-12	2010-11
English	67%	69%	66%
Math	64%	65%	64%
Science	72%	76%	72%
History	61%	59%	62%

Source: Education Data Partnership -

The percentages above are for students "Scoring at Proficient or Advanced" in the
subjects listed above.

If you scored 76% on a test, what grade would you expect to get? A "C" right?

Do you consider a "C" a "strong core academic" level?

And isn't below 70% a "D"?

They say "No funds can be used for administrators' salaries", but they can go to 325
"Classified Staff to support for the 422 Teachers district-wide according to the latest
figures available.

Are teachers under paid? No, the Districts' average teacher salary, not including
generous benefits, is $74,685 versus the statewide average of $68,030. And the highest
paid teachers make $91.854 versus the statewide average of $80.180.

Sure seems like above average pay for below average results!

Teach the Milpitas Unified School District board to be financially responsible: Vote NO
on Measure C.

For more information, visit

http://www.SVTaxpayers.org/2014-06-milpitas-usd-parcel-tax.

/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/ Edward Leo Wimmers

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Arguments Against Measure C

Milpitas Unified School District used 2010's state government budget crisis to
persuade us to pass the existing $84 parcel tax, a burden they promised would

end in 5 years. That crisis is over, yet they're unwilling to stop taxing us. How
long do they want the five-year tax to last? Thirteen years! Consider this:

-	Student enrollment is virtually flat.

-	The number of teachers has declined from 431, in the 2009-10 school year, to 422 in
2011-12 (latest figures available).

With fewer teachers, shouldn't expenses be down? Doesn't matter: the District wants
more money.

But don't we value those remaining teachers? Yes! Here's the trend in Milpitas Unified
SchooMARl District teachers' salaries compared with those statewide (on average):

2011-12 | Enrollment: 9,949

Teachers' salary = $74,685 | Statewide = $68,030

2010-111 Enrollment: 9,887

Teachers' salary = $72,935 | Statewide = $67,448

2009-10 | Enrollment: 9,802

Teachers' salary = $72,935 | Statewide = $67,530

(Source: Education Data Partnership, www.Ed-Data.K12.ca.us)

What about homeowners and renters?

They haven't stopped feeling the pinch of the economic downturn and inflation. With
Santa Clara County's unemployment rate "officially" at 6.3% (up from 5.8% in
December, 2013), but the real rate much higher — counting people who stopped looking
for work - Measure C will affect everyone's housing cost, worst of all, that of the
unemployed.

Families' budgets have been slashed everywhere — why not at this school district? (Not
to mention that property taxes also slow down our homes' recovering their value!)

The District says that none of these funds will be used for administration. But that's an
empty promise: any funds generated outside this parcel tax can simply be shifted to
administration — without limit. Don't be fooled by the shell game.

Teach the Milpitas Unified School District board to be financially responsible: Vote NO
on Measure C.

For more information, visit http://www.SVTaxpavers.org/2014-06-milpitas-usd-
parcel-tax.

/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/ Edward Leo Wimmers

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Rebuttal to Arguments Against

The authors of the argument against Measure C don't live in Milpitas and oppose every
school measure on the ballot.

Unlike these two ideologues, we believe that local student success is one of our Milpitas
community's top priorities. Our Yes vote on Measure C supports continued student
achievement, without increasing taxes by a single penny.

Milpitas Unified School District educates 10,033 elementary, middle and high school
students, and we believe that every one of them deserves an excellent education to
prepare them for college and future careers.

As longtime Milpitas residents and leaders, we know the facts and we're voting Yes on
Measure C.

Measure C doesn't increase taxes. It simply renews an existing source of funding for
our schools, which would otherwise expire.

Measure C must be used for specific and kev academic priorities in our schools:

strong academic programs, highly-qualified teachers and programs that prepare
students for college and 21st century careers.

Fiscal safeguards are included in Measure C. No funds can be used for
administrators' salaries. The Citizen Oversight Committee, annual audits and public
reports to the community will continue to ensure funds are used for voter-approved
purposes. Measure C will expire in 8 years and cannot be renewed without voter
approval.

By making our neighborhood schools and the students they serve a priority, all of us
benefit. Great schools contribute to strong property values.

Join us: continue preparing Milpitas students for success in college and their future
careers. Vote Yes on Measure C.

/s/ Michael Mendizabal

Former Chair, Milpitas Unified School District Budget Committee

/s/ Barbara M Santos
Lifelong Milpitas Resident

/s/ Demetress Morris
Milpitas Planning Commissioner

/s/ Pono V. Aiona

MUSD Parent, Former Chair Community Advisory Committee

/s/ Dennis L. Graham
Retired Milpitas Police Chief

Full Text of Measure C

MILPITAS UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
High Quality Education and Local Control Funding Measure C

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To provide local reliable funding for local schools that cannot be taken by the State, to
maintain strong core academic programs in math, science, reading and writing,
prepare students for college and 21st Century careers, continue teaching programs in
science, technology, engineering and math to help graduates succeed, and attract and
retain highly qualified and experienced teachers, with no proceeds used for
administrative salaries and benefits, the Milpitas Unified School District ("District")
proposes to renew and extend its existing high quality education and local control,
parcel tax, without increasing the current tax rate, for a period of eight years from
its current expiration date (June 30, 2015), starting on July 1, 2015 at a rate of $84 per
parcel per year, with an exemption available for senior citizens and certain disabled
persons, and to implement strict accountability measures, to ensure the funds are used
to:

•	Improve core academic programs in math, science, reading and writing;

•	Maintain programs to prepare students for college and 21st Century careers;

•	Continue innovative teaching programs in science, technology, engineering and
math; and

•	Attract and retain highly qualified and experienced teachers.

The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the
District.

DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"

For purposes of the core academic programs parcel tax, the term "Parcel" means any
parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Milpitas
Unified School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad va/oremproperty taxes
from the Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that is otherwise
exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall
also be exempt from the high quality education and local control parcel tax in such
year.

For purposes of this high quality education and local control parcel tax, any such
"Parcels" which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-
family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by
submitting an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year to the District,
be treated as a single "parcel" for purposes of the levy of the high quality education and
local control parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners of a Parcel
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either
[a] 65 years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year immediately
preceding the year in which the tax would apply, or (b) persons receiving
Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, may obtain an
exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an application therefore, by June 15 of
any year, to the District.

Persons currently exempted from the District's expiring Measure B parcel tax shall
automatically be exempted from this Measure without having to file a new application.

The District may establish administrative procedures to periodically verify any
previously granted exemption.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Clara
County Tax Collector, or other appropriate County tax officials shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be
final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the high quality
education and local control parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen and SSI Exemptions
and the classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of
the District shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the high quality education and local control parcel tax is not intended
to decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal government revenue sources
that would otherwise be available to the District during the period of the parcel tax. In
the event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District may cease
the levy or shall reduce the parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the
amount of the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1
and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the
parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the
parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (bj the proceeds of the parcel tax
shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (cj a separate, special
account shall be created into which the proceeds of the high quality education and local
control parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to
the Board of Education of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and
expended from the proceeds of the high quality education and local control parcel tax
and (iij the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded
from the proceeds of the core academic instruction parcel tax, as identified above. In
addition, the District will maintain its existing Citizens' Oversight Committee which
will provide oversight as to the expenditure of parcel tax revenues.