Santa Cruz Comity Parks Parcel Tax,
Measure F (June 2014)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The question on the ballot:^

Funding for Santa Cruz County Parks. To properly maintain Santa Cruz County
parks, facilities, beach access, and open space; clean bathrooms; repair roofs and
electrical systems; keep facilities open and safe; provide recreation to children,
teenagers, families, and seniors: shall Santa Cruz County levy an annual tax of
$8.50 per improved parcel, replacing an expiring service charge on residential units
within the County’s Park and Recreation District, with all funds staying local? pi

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

COUNTY SERVICE AREA 11

Funding for Santa Cruz County Parks. To properly maintain

F Santa Cruz County parks, facilities, beach access, and
open space; clean bathrooms; repair roofs and electrical
systems; keep facilities open and safe; provide recreation
to children, teenagers, families, and seniors: shall Santa Cruz
County levy an annual tax of $8.50 per improved parcel, replacing
an expiring service charge on residential units within the County’s
Park and Recreation District, with all funds staying local?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE F

RESOLUTION CALLING FOR A SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD
ON TUESDAY, JUNE 3, 2014, FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING
TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA (CSA)
NO. 11 OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA CRUZ, A MEASURE
PROPOSING THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX FOR COUNTY PARKS
AND RECREATION PURPOSES AND CONSOLIDATING SAID
SPECIAL COUNTY ELECTION WITH THE GUBERNATORIAL
PRIMARY ELECTION TO BE HELD ON JUNE 3, 2014

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors established County Service Area (CSA) No.
11 in 1971 to provide for park acquisition, park development and maintenance,
recreation programs, and to contribute to the overall operations of parks, open
space and cultural services within the unincorporated areas of the County outside
of the four independent recreation and park districts of Alba, Boulder Creek, Opal
Cliffs and La Selva; and

WHEREAS, acquisition of County parks and recreation facilities within the CSA
No. 11 have been financed by County service charges collected on the property
tax roll; and

WHEREAS, service charges for CSA No. 11 for the 2013-14 fiscal year ending
June 30, 2014 were levied in the amount of $6.58 per residential unit; and

WHEREAS, the debt service for acquisition and improvement of County parks and
recreation facilities funded by the existing services charges will be retired at the
end of the 2013/2014 fiscal year; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Cruz acting as the
governing authority of CSA No. 11 (Board of Supervisors) is authorized to levy a
special tax if the resolution proposing that tax is approved by a vote of the members
of the Board of Supervisors and the tax is approved by a two-third vote of the
qualified voters voting in an election on the issue; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has determined it is in the best interest of the
County and its residents to submit to the voters a proposed special tax for County
parks, recreation, and cultural facilities and services to replace the previously
existing County service charges within CSA No. 11; and

WHEREAS, it is necessary that a special County election be held in accordance
with law for the purpose of submitting to the qualified voters within CSA No. 11 a
measure on whether to approve the proposed special tax pursuant to Government
Code Sections 25215.2, and 50075 et seq. and in compliance with California
Constitution Article XI11 A; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AND ORDERED by the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Santa Cruz acting as the governing authority of CSA
No. 11 that, subject to approval of the special tax measure set forth in this
Resolution by two-thirds of the qualified voters voting in a special election, a
special tax be levied on all improved parcels within CSA No. 11 which consists of
the unincorporated areas of the County outside of existing recreation and park
districts:

1 .Commencing with the 2014-15 fiscal year on July 1,2014 a special tax is to be
levied against all improved parcels within CSA No. 11 in the annual amount of
$8.50 per parcel; and

2.	The County shall maintain a separate account into which the proceeds of this tax
shall be deposited and then only be used for the purpose of providing, maintaining,
and preserving County parks and open space and to operate recreation and
cultural programs within CSA No. 11;

3.	The special tax shall be collected on the property tax roll in the same manner and
at the same time as County property taxes, and shall be subject to all the laws
pertaining to the levy, collection, and enforcement of County property taxes;

4.	If any provision of this Resolution or of the special tax measure contained herein
or the application of any such provisions to any persons or circumstances is held
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision or application that can be
given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this extent the
provision therefore shall be severable.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED AND ORDERED by the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Santa Cruz that a special County election shall be and the same is
hereby called and ordered to be held within CSA No. 11 on Tuesday, June 3,2014,
for the purpose of submitting to the qualified voters of the CSA No. 11 the following
special tax measure substantially similar to the following:

1 .Santa Cruz County Parks - Special Tax Ballot Measure Question

Funding for Santa Cruz County Parks

To properly maintain Santa Cruz County parks, facilities, beach access, and open
space; clean bathrooms; repair roofs and electrical systems; keep facilities open
and safe; provide recreation to children, teenagers, families, and seniors: shall
Santa Cruz County levy an annual tax of $8.50 per improved parcel, replacing an
expiring service charge on residential units within the County’s Park and
Recreation District, with all funds staying local?

Yes_______ No____

2.The Board of Supervisors submits to the qualified voters of CSA No. 11 at said
special election, said Ballot Measure Question as set forth herein and designates
and refers to said measure as the measure to be set forth on the ballots for use in
said election.

3.Said special election shall be held and conducted, the votes received and
canvassed, and the votes received and canvassed, and the returns thereof made
and the results thereof ascertained and determined in accordance with law.

4.Said special election hereby called shall be and is hereby consolidated with the
Gubernatorial Primary Election to be held on Tuesday June 3,2014, in all respects
and all as required by and pursuant to law.

5.In accordance with the provision of Section 9160 (b) of the California Elections
Code, the County Counsel is hereby directed to prepare an impartial analysis of
this measure.

6.In accordance with the provision of Section 9160 (c) of the California Elections
Code, the County Auditor is hereby directed to prepare a fiscal impact statement of
this measure.

7.	Arguments for and against this measure may be submitted in conformance with
California Elections Code Section 9161 and following.

8.	The Clerk of the Board of Supervisor shall file a copy of this Resolution with the
County Clerk.

9.	If enacted, the County shall prepare the annual report required by subdivision (d)
of Government Code section 50075.1.

10.	Any legal challenge to this resolution or to the special tax adopted by this
resolution shall be brought as provided in Government Code Section 50077.5.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa
Cruz, State of California, this 25th day of February, 2014, by the following vote:

AYES:SUPERVISORS Leopold, Coonerty, Caput, McPherson and Friend
NOES:SUPERVISORS None
ABSENT: SUPERVISORS None
ABSTAIN:SUPERVISORS None

Santa Cruz County

44-509

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE F

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the County of
Santa Cruz (“County”) will be authorized to levy a special tax on real property.

The tax would be imposed for the tax year beginning July 1,2014, and each year
thereafter at the rate of $8.50 per year on each improved parcel within County
Service Area No. 11 of the unincorporated portion of the County; that is, those
parcels which are outside city boundaries and are also outside the boundaries of
the Alba, Boulder Creek, Opal Cliffs and La Selva Beach recreation and park
districts would be subject to the tax.

The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be used only for providing,
maintaining and preserving County parks and open space and operating
recreation and cultural programs within County Service Area No. 11.

Accountability measures required by State law would apply to the tax: The County
would create a separate account into which the proceeds of the special tax are
deposited. An annual report would show the amount of the special taxes which
have been collected and expended, and the status of projects to be funded from
those proceeds.

The special parcel tax is to be collected in the same manner as County property
taxes which are based upon property value.

This tax measure is placed on the ballot by resolution of the County Board of
Supervisors.

A “yes” vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A “no” vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

DANA McRAE, COUNTY COUNSEL
By Jane M. Scott, Assistant County Counsel

FISCAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY AUDITOR
MEASURE F

To Levy a Special Tax for County Parks and Recreation Purposes

This measure would levy a special tax in the annual amount of $8.50 on all
improved parcels within County Service Area Number 11 (CSA11). The purpose is
to maintain Santa Cruz County parks, facilities, beach access and open space; and
provide recreation programs within CSA 11. The proposed parcel tax replaces the
expiring CSA 11 service charge of $6.58 per residential parcel.

CSA 11 was established in 1971 to provide for park acquisition, development,
maintenance, operations and programming within the unincorporated area of the
County outside of the four independent recreation and park districts of Alba,
Boulder Creek, Opal Cliffs and La Selva Beach.

Accountability of Funds

The proposed parcel tax is expected to generate approximately $355,000 per year.
The expiring service charge generated about $298,000 during fiscal year 2012-13.
The proposed tax will be collected on the property tax roll in the same manner and
at the same time as other property taxes, and shall be subject to all the laws
pertaining to the levy, collection and enforcement of property taxes. The proceeds
of this tax will be deposited into a separate fund established by the County. Its use
will be strictly limited to the following purposes within CSA 11:

Provide, maintain and preserve County parks and open space

•	Operate recreation and cultural programs

•	Maintain parks, facilities, beach access and open space

•	Clean bathrooms

•	Repair roofs and electrical systems

•	Keep facilities open and safe

•	Provide recreation to children, teenagers, families and seniors

•	Acquire and develop parks

s/MARY JO WALKER
Auditor-Controller
County of Santa Cruz

44-510

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F  Vote Yes on Measure F to keep our parks safe and clean. Measure F will ensure our children, families and seniors have safe, clean places to enjoy Santa Cruz’s natural beauty.  Santa Cruz County parks are a well-loved resource for our community. Budget cuts, though, have meant repairs and maintenance of our parks have not kept up with demand. This threatens the County’s ability to maintain adequate garbage pick up, regularly clean park restrooms and keep open the after-school and summer programs that help kids stay away from crime, gangs and drugs.  Measure F is a replacement for critical existing funding for our parks that will expire this year. We need this funding to maintain clean, safe parks and to preserve activities for children, youth and seniors.  Without this measure, maintenance for leaking roofs and old electrical and septic systems will be further deferred. Trash pickups could become less frequent, leading to parks and beaches becoming dirty and rundown.  Vote Yes on Measure F to:  •	Ensure frequent park restroom cleaning and garbage pickup at all County parks, beaches and open space areas  •	Maintain and repair public facilities, such as beach access, play areas and picnic areas  •	Repair leaky roofs, old electrical and septic systems  Vote Yes on Measure F to provide critical programs that will keep our kids healthy, active and safe. Our kids need after-school and summer activities to keep them on a path for success.  Measure F requires fiscal accountability:  •	Every penny raised by the measure will stay in Santa Cruz County  •	Citizen oversight and annual reports to the community will ensure funds are spent as promised  Please join community members and local leaders—vote Yes on F to keep our parks safe and well-maintained.  si Phil Wowak Sheriff-Coroner  s/Jack O’Neill Founder, O’Neill Sea Odyssey  si Patricia Santana Owner, Manuel’s Mexican Restaurant  si Morgan Scarborough Business Owner and Little League Coach  si Kate Minott President, Friends of Santa Cruz County Parks	NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F WAS FILED.