Consolidated

Registrar of Voters

Polling Place Location
on Back Cover
Polls Ope

7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

Last Day

To Register To Vote

Quick • Easy • Convenient

Vote-By-Mail

October 6th - October 28th
Application on Back Cover

AVISO IMPORTANTE

Una traduccion en Espanol de
esta Boleta de Muestra y Folleto
de Informacion al Votante puede
obtenerse en la oficina del Registro de

Sample Ballot and Information Pamphlet

Votantes llamando al (951) 486-7200
o 1 (800) 773-VOTE (8683) o visite
nuestro sitio web www.voteinfo.net

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

2724 Gateway Drive • Riverside, CA 92507
951-486-7200 • 800-773-VOTE (8683) • TTY: 951-697-8966
www.voteinfo.net

SAMPLE BALLOT / BOLETA EJEMPLAR

o

>

CITY/CIUDAD

CITY OF BLYTHE / CIUDAD DE BLYTHE

W

Measure “W”: Sales Tax 0.5% Increase. Shall the City of Blythe increase its sales tax by one-half of one percent (0.5%) for a period of five years?

Medida “W”: Incremento del 0.5% del Impuesto sobre las Ventas. ^Debera la Ciudad de Blythe aumentar su impuesto sobre las ventas por la mitad del uno por ciento
(0.5%) por un periodo de cinco anos?

YES

SI

NO

NO

X Measure “X”: Transient Occupancy Tax 3% Increase. Shall the City of Blythe increase its transient occupancy tax (TOT) by 3%, to bring its transient
occupancy tax to a rate of 13%, for a period of five years?

Medida “X”: Incremento del 3% del Impuesto sobre ocupacion transitoria. ^Debera la Ciudad de Blythe aumentar su impuesto de ocupacion transitoria (TOT) en un
3% para elevar su impuesto de ocupacion transitoria a una tasa del 13% por un periodo de cinco anos?

YES

SI

NO

NO

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY / VOTO CONSULTIVO SOLAMENTE

Y Measure “Y”: Advisory Vote Only on City Funds Use. Advisory Vote Only. Shall road improvements and maintenance, the fire department, the police
department, city promotion, community center enhancements, recreation center enhancements, and code enforcement (enhancing the appearance) be given
priority in receipt of additional revenue generated, if either Measure “W” (Sales Tax 0.5% Increase) or Measure “X” (Transient Occupancy Tax 3% Increase), or if
both of them, is/are approved by the voters?	y^g

Medida “Y”: Voto consultivo Solo sobre el Uso de los Fondos de la Ciudad. Voto consultivo solamente. <j,Se le dara prioridad a mejoras y mantenimiento de las
carreteras, el departamento de bomberos, el departamento de policia, la promotion de la ciudad, las mejoras del centro de comunitario, mejoras del centro de recreo, y la
aplicacion del codigo (mejorando la apariencia) a la reception de los ingresos adicionales generados, si ya sea la Medida “W” (incremento del Impuesto sobre las Ventas
del 0.5%) o la Medida “X” (incremento del Impuesto de ocupacion transitoria del 3%), o si ambas, es/son aprobadas por los votantes?

SI

NO

NO

CITY OF BLYTHE / CIUDAD DE BLYTHE

Measure “Z”: Authorize, Regulate and Tax Medical Cannabis Businesses. Shall Ordinance No. 866-14 that would authorize and regulate medical cannabis
businesses; charge each medical cannabis business a maximum of $10,000 per year for each business license issued; and tax each medical cannabis business
at the maximum rate of fifteen cents for each $1.00 of proceeds collected and at a maximum monthly rate of $10 a square foot of cannabis cultivated; be

adopted?

Medida “Z”: Autorizar regular e imponer impuestos fiscales sobre las Empresas de Cannabis Medicinal. ^Debera ser adoptada la Ordenanza Num. 866-14 que
autorizaria y regularia las empresas de cannabis medicinal; cobraria a cada negocio de cannabis medicinal un maximo de $10,000 por ano por cada licencia comercial
expedida; e impondria un impuesto sobre cada negocio de cannabis medicinal a la tasa maxima de quince centavos por cada $1.00 del producto recaudado y a una tasa
maxima mensual de $10 por pie cuadrado de cannabis cultivada?____________________________________________________

YES

SI

NO

NO

13

<

ro

ro

ro

SAMPLE BALLOT / BOLETA EJEMPLAR

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “Z”

Measure “Z" would enact an ordinance to authorize, regulate and tax
medical cannabis businesses within the City by amending Chapter 5.22
of Title 5 of the Blythe Municipal Code.

These amendments would replace current law, under which both the
operation of medical cannabis dispensaries, as well as the cultivation
of medical cannabis, are prohibited and unregulated within the City.

No more than three medical cannabis businesses would be permitted
within the City, subject to change by the City Council.

Each medical cannabis business would be required to obtain a
permit from the City to operate. A separate permit may be required
for cultivation. Permits are revocable for failure to follow regulations.
These regulations include: security cameras and security guard,
written records on operations and employees; allow City inspections of
premises, security camera recordings, and written records; generally
not employ anyone convicted of a felony within last ten years; no doctor
recommendations on site; generally no minors on site; labeling and
packaging regulations; no detectable off-site odors from the operation;
use of medical cannabis on-site prohibited; operate on a non-profit
basis; insurance; must discourage and correct nuisance conditions;
regulations on edibles, operating hours are to be set by the City; and
medical cannabis businesses must indemnify and defend the City from
all liability related to their operations.

Medical cannabis businesses are subject to three taxes. These are not
sales taxes. The taxes are not imposed on the person or patient who
acquires medical cannabis. These are general taxes available to fund
general municipal services, such as public safety, street and sidewalk
repairs, upkeep and development of the City’s parks, water delivery and
treatment, and other local governmental functions.

Each operation shall pay to the City a maximum cannabis tax of 15
cents for each $1.00 of proceeds, the rate to be set by resolution of the
City Council. Each operation shall pay to the City a maximum monthly
fee of $10.00 per square foot under active medical cannabis cultivation,
the rate to be set by resolution of the City Council. An annual medical
cannabis business license fee set by resolution of the City Council, but
not to exceed $10,000, shall be required.

The new law is subject to amendment by the City Council, without
requiring a further vote of the people, to further its purposes.
Amendments may include maximum number of dispensaries allowed,
process and procedure for securing permits, land use and zoning, and
any issue related in whole or in part to maintaining the public health,
safety or welfare.

The new law shall be read consistent with any statewide regulation of
medical cannabis or recreational cannabis that is promulgated by the
California legislature or by voter approval in the future, to the fullest
extent possible consistent with such statewide regulation, including but
not limited to the taxation of cannabis.

Measure "Z” was placed on the Ballot by the Blythe City Council. It will
be adopted if it is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure.

By:	Christian	Bettenhausen

City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure “Z”. If you desire a copy of the measure,
please call the Blythe City Clerk’s office at (760) 922-
6161 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

33-9031-M80

RV 222-024

Almost 20 years ago, an enlightened California electorate approved
medical marijuana use for patients that preferred a less toxic, more
natural alternative to prescription medication. The basis of the law was
compassion for those suffering from medical illness that found relief
in marijuana’s therapeutic properties. Prior to the measure’s passing,
those who treated their illness with marijuana were stigmatized as
criminals in need of punishment rather than patients suffering from
medical conditions. Today, the imputation of wrongdoing towards those
who treat their illness with marijuana by those with uneducated, biased
and politically-motivated viewpoints, has made it a challenge for patients
to obtain medication. For many in Blythe, its a considerable hardship
to travel 100 miles to Palm Springs where the closest dispensary is
located, The alternative is to buy on the black market, which usually
means a “dealer” in one of our residential neighborhoods; oftentimes
a dangerous proposition, especially for the elderly. The best solution
for all is a well regulated commercial establishment where patients
can purchase their medicine in a safe, secure environment. While
the naysayers will argue that a dispensary in Blythe will attract crime
and get into the hands of children, research has proven these scare
tactics to be untrue. A study in Los Angeles County showed that the
appearance of a dispensary in town was more often associated with
a reduction in crime; and sales are limited to those 21 and older. The
argument that it will be a target for robbery is equally dismissed. Banks,
liquor stores and gas stations are all targets of robberies — but we
don’t ban them from our community. In addition, tax revenue generated
by a local dispensary will benefit local law enforcement. It’s time we
stood up for those less fortunate than ourselves; please, vote yes on
Measure “Z”.

By:	Dan	Figueroa,	Former Commissioner, Board of Paroles

Mike Evans, City of Blythe Mayor
Larry Kelley, Com. VFW
David Brooks, MD
Stephen Hohn Sr, Business Owner

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “Z”

The arguments against Measure “Z” are many, documented,
and important concerns for the citizens of Blythe. The reasons for
Measure “Z” focus on one important concern. Because of the many
potential problems with having a marijuana medical dispensary in
Blythe, vote NO against Measure “Z”.

The California Shouse Law Group provides legal help to people
who wish to operate medical marijuana dispensaries. Though the legal
firm can assist the implementation of Measure “Z”, their information
actually shows major difficulties with marijuana medical
dispensaries. These include vague wording in Proposition 215 and
Senate bill 420.

Under Proposition 215 passed in 1996 medical uses for marijuana
include seven illnesses and “any other illness for which marijuana
provides relief.” This last category is a huge area for potential abuse.

Under California Senate Bill 420 identification cards allow
protected individuals to cultivate, possess, and transport specific
amounts of marijuana, “unless a local ordinance or one’s doctor
authorizes more.” This is a gigantic potential loophole for disaster.

In November 2013 the American Medical Association officially
stated that cannabis is a dangerous drug and is a public health concern.

In March 2011 the American Society of Addiction Medicine
rejected use of medical marijuana. The president stated that the Society
does not regard marijuana as a medication, because it has not gone
through an official Food and Drug Administration approval process.

In Colorado under legalized medical marijuana usage from
2006 to 2011, fatalities involving drivers testing positive for marijuana
increased 114 percent.

VOTE NO ON Measure “Z”.

By:	Oscar	G. Galvan

Adolfo Paglinawan
Doris Morgan
Bart Fisher
Joseph DeConinck

33-9031-M81

RV 222-025

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “Z”

Proponents of this measure would have you believe that they support it
for humanitarian reasons to ease pain and suffering. But those who truly
need this drug for medical reasons already have options for obtaining
whatever they need to ease their suffering. District Attorneys throughout
California know that fake medical cards are easy to obtain and that
recreational drug users will be purchasing this federally illegal drug from
Blythe’s dispensaries. Statistically, there are fewer than 200 medicinal
marijuana cardholders, both legitimate and fake, in Blythe. Only 5% of
the legitimate cardholders have a debilitating illness. Why, then,
the big push to do this? It is disturbing that marijuana purchased from
dispensaries in other cities continues to show up at Palo Verde High
School in the hands of children. Marijuana is a “gateway” drug, leading
to the use of harder drugs. It is addicting, especially among children.
The law enforcement community opposes dispensaries as they breed
crime. Although legal in Colorado, a majority of communities
have enacted bans or moratoriums on commercial marijuana
businesses. In Denver, one-third of all crimes are committed within
1,000 feet of dispensaries. A dispensary in Cathedral City was robbed,
at gunpoint, with thieves making off with $70,000 worth of marijuana
that police indicated would be sold illegally on the street. The American
Medical Association considers marijuana “a dangerous drug that
should not be legalized for either recreational or medical use”.
The American Society of Addiction Medicine considers marijuana
a “psychoactive drug that triggers addiction and lifelong chronic
brain disease”. Don’t let Blythe become known as a desperate city
that approved dispensaries as a last ditch effort to make money. Money
alone can never compensate for the increased crime and dangers
to Blythe. Contact the Riverside County District Attorney for more
information. Preserve Blythe’s integrity; vote NO.

By:	Oscar	G. Galvan

Bart Fisher
Doris Morgan Hayes
Adolfo Paglinawan
Joseph DeConinck

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “Z”

There has never been a survey taken to tally Blythe medical marijuana
patients; the figure of 200 quoted by opponents of a dispensary
is a fabrication. Likewise, the claim that only 5% of patients have a
debilitating illness is questionable in that doctor/patient files are
strictly confidential and opponents have no access to them. It is not
a gateway drug; studies have shown that when a patient is given
access to a dispensary, they are not exposed to other drugs pushed
by black market dealers and less likely to use them. California Student
Survey states marijuana use by teens dropped dramatically after
voters legalized medical marijuana. Denver’s crime statistics show
that legalizing medical marijuana caused no increase in crime. The
California Police Chief’s Association is supporting regulation of medical
marijuana dispensaries. In 2009, the American Medical Association
asked the federal government to reconsider marijuana’s classification
as a Schedule I drug, recognizing its medicinal value. A national survey
of physicians conducted found that 73% supported use of marijuana
to treat nausea, pain and other symptoms... 56% would recommend
marijuana to patients if permitted by state law. DEA chief administrative
law judge Francis Young, ruled: “Marijuana, in its natural form, is one
of the safest therapeutically active substances known to man. By any
measure of rational analysis marijuana can be safely used within
the supervised routine of medical care ... It would be unreasonable,
arbitrary, and capricious for DEA to continue to stand between those
sufferers and the benefits of this substance.”

By:	Mike	Evans, City of Blythe Mayor

Larry Kelley, Com. VFW Post 2987
Dan L. Figueroa, Former Commissioner, Board of Paroles
David Brooks, MD Director - Palo Verde Healthcare District
Stephen Hohn Sr

33-9031-M82

RV 222-026

ORDINANCE NO. 866-14

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLYTHE, CALIFORNIA AMENDING CHAPTER 5.22 OF TITLE 5
OF THE BLYTHE MUNICIPAL CODE TO AUTHORIZE,

REGULATE AND TAX MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESSES

WHEREAS, in 1996 the California voters approved Proposition 215 (known as the
Compassionate Use Act (the “CUA”) and codified as Health and Safety Code Section 11362.5,
et seq.) to exempt certain patients and their primary caregivers frctm criminal liability under state
law for the possession and cultivation of cannabis fin medical purposes; and

WHEREAS, in 2003 the California legislature enacted Senate Bill 420 (known as the
Medical Marijuana Program Act (the “MMPA”) and codified as Health and Safely Code Section
11362.7 et seq.), as later amended, to clarify the scope of the Compassionate Use Act relating to
foe possession and cultivation of cannabis for medical purpose, and to authorize local governing
bodies to adopt and enforce laws consistent with its provisions; and

WHEREAS, in 2005 foe California Board of Equalization began issuing seller’s permits
for sales consisting only of medical cannabis; and

WHEREAS, in 2008 foe California Attorney General issued guidelines for the security
and non-diversion of cannabis grown for medical use; and

WHEREAS, in 2014 foe U.S. House of Representatives voted to stop federal law
enforcement from interfering with medical cannabis operations in the various states which have
decriminalized and/or authorized such operations; and

WHEREAS, Health & Safety Code Section 11362.83 provides that cities are free to
adopt and enforce local ordinances that regulate the location, operation, or establishment of
medical cannabis dispensaries and cultivation; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of foe City of Blythe intends that nothing in this Ordinance
shall be deemed to conflict with federal law as contained in foe Controlled Substances Act, nor
to otherwise permit any activity that is prohibited under that Act or other applicable law; and

WHEREAS, foe City Council of foe City of Blythe intends that nothing in this Ordinance
shall be construed to allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers others or causes a public
nuisance, to allow the use of cannabis for non-medical purposes, or to allow any activity relating
to foe cultivation, distribution or consumption of cannabis that is otherwise illegal; and

WHEREAS, the operation of medical cannabis dispensaries and the cultivation of
medical cannabis within foe City of Blythe presently remains prohibited and unregulated; and

WHEREAS, foe City Council of the City of Blythe finds that medical cannabis
dispensary operations and cultivation require careful consideration as well as foe regulation of
foe location and manner in which dispensaries operate and cultivation occurs so as to prevent
negative impacts on nearby residents and businesses; and

WHEREAS, foe City Council of foe City of Blythe finds that foe City of Blythe has a
compelling interest in protecting the public health, safety and welfare of its residents and
businesses by regulating foe location and operation of medical cannabis dispensaries and medical
cannabis cultivation, in preserving the peace and quiet of the neighborhoods in which medical

1

-26-

cannabis dispensaries operate and medical cannabis is cultivated, and in providing
compassionate access to medical cannabis to its seriously ill residents; and

WHEREAS, the California Constitution grants local governments in Article XI, Section 7
tiie authority under their police powers to regulate land use; and

WHEREAS, the proposed ordinance has been reviewed by City staff in accordance with
the Environmental Checklist Form (Appendix G of the CEQA Guidelines) to determine if there
would be any possibility that the proposed ordinance would have the possibility of creating any
environmental impacts, and City staff has determined that the establishment of regulations for
medical cannabis businesses does not meet any of the thresholds contained in the Checklist that
would trigger an environmental impact, and thus according to the “general rule exemption”
(Section 15061(b)(3)) of the CEQA Guidelines, projects which have no potential for causing a
significant effect on the environment are not subject to CEQA, no further environmental analysis
is required, and a notice of exemption will be filed;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLYTHE DOES
HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 5.22 [“Cannabis Dispensaries”] of Title 5 of the Blythe Municipal
Code is hereby repealed and replaced with the following:

Chanter 5.22 Medical Cannabis Dispensaries. Cnlttvatton and Taxation

Section 5.22.010 Purpose and Intent

A.	The purpose of this chapter is to authorize, regulate and tax medical cannabis businesses.
The City intends that both the operation of medical cannabis dispensaries, as well as the
cultivation of medical cannabis, are each consistent with the overall health, welfare and
safety of the city and its populace, and that such operations are in compliance with
California’s Compassionate Use Act of 1996 as well as California's Medical Marijuana
Program Act of2003.

B.	Provisions of tins chapter may be amended by ordinance passed by a majority vote of the
City Council.

C.	The City has sought voter approval for this chapter conditioned on maintenance of
flexibility in amending this chapter from time to time as determined by the City Council.
To that end this chapter if approved by the voters is subject to amendment by the City
Council to further the purpose of this chapter, such amendment to include but not be
limited to amendment of foe maximum number of dispensaries allowed, the process and
procedure for securing a permit, and all sections of this chapter related in whole or in part
to public health, safety and welfare.

D.	The tax measures provided for in this chapter which apply to medical cannabis are
intended to equally apply to all cannabis if statewide authorization of general cannabis
use in California is promulgated in the future.

E.	The chapter is not intended to permit activities that are otherwise illegal under federal,
state or local law. This chapter is not intended to conflict with federal or state law.

2

-27-

Section 5.22.020 Definitions

The following toms and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall be construed as defined in
this section:

A.	“Applicant” means a person who is required to file an application for a permit or a license
under this chapter.

B.	“Attending physician” has the same definition as set forth in Health and Safety Code
section 11362.7.

C.	“Attorney General Guidelines” shall refer to the California Attorney General Guidelines
for the Security and Non-diversion of Marijuana Grown for Medical Use, issued by foe
Attorney General’s Office in August, 2008, as amended from time to time, which sets
forth regulations intended to ensure foe security and non-diversion of cannabis grown for
medical use by qualified patients or primary caregivers.

D.	“Cultivation” means the growing of medical cannabis for medical purposes as defined in
strict accordance with Health and Safety Code sections 11362.5 and 11362.7 et seq.

E.	“Cultivator” means a person who engages in the cultivation of medical cannabis.

F.	“Delivery” means the act of taking something to a person or place.

G.	“Dispense” means the selection, measuring, packaging, labeling, delivery, or distribution
or sale of medical cannabis to a qualified patient or a primary caregiver.

H.	“Edible” has the same definition as “food” as set forth in Health and Safety Code section
109935.

L “Employee” means any person (whether paid or unpaid) who provides regular labor or
regular services for a medical cannabis business, including but not limited to at the
location of a medical cannabis business.

J.	“Identification card” has foe same definition as set forth in Health and Safety Code
section 11362.7, and as may be amended, and which provides that ‘Identification card”
means a document issued by foe State Department of Health Services that document
identifies a person authorized to engage in foe medical use of cannabis and foe person's
designated primary caregiver, if any.

K.	“Labeling” means all labels and other written, printed, or graphic matter (a) upon any
cannabis intended for medical use, or (b) accompanying such cannabis intended for
medical use.

L.	“Location” means any parcel of land, whether vacant or occupied by a building, group of
buildings, or accessory buildings, and includes the buildings, structures, yards, open
spaces, lot width, and lot area.

M.	“Lighting” means the act of illuminating as well as the effect achieved by the
arrangement of lights.

N.	“Live scan” means a system for inkless electronic fingerprinting and the automated
background check developed by foe California Department of Justice (DOJ) which
involves digitizing fingerprints and electronically transmitting foe fingerprint image data
along with personal descriptor information to computers at foe DOJ for completion of a
criminal record check; or such other comparable inkless electronic fingerprinting and

3

automated background check process as determined by die city council.

O.	“Manager” means an employee responsible for management and/or supervision of a
medical cannabis business.

P.	“Cannabis” has the same definition as “marijuana” as set forth in Health and Safety Code
section 11018, and as may be amended.

Q.	“Medical cannabis” means cannabis used for medical purposes in accordance with the
Compassionate Use Act (Health and Safety Code section 11362.5) and the Medical
Marijuana Program Act (Health and Safety Code sections 11362.7 et seq.).

R.	“Medical cannabis business” means a medical cannabis dispensary and/or a medical
cannabis cultivation site.

S.	“Medical cannabis cultivation site” means a location where the cultivation of medical
cannabis occurs.

T.	“Medical cannabis dispensary” means:

1.	Any facility, building, structure or location, whether fixed or mobile, where a
primary caregiver makes available, sells, transmits, gives or otherwise provides
medical cannabis to one or more persons with identification cards or qualified
patients; or

2.	Any facility, building, structure or location where qualified patients and/or
persons with identification cards and/or primary caregivers meet or congregate to
cultivate or distribute cannabis fin* medical purposes.

3.	"Medical cannabis dispensary" shall not include foe following uses, so long as
such uses otherwise fully comply with this Code, Health and Safety Code Section
11362.5 et seq., and other applicable law:

a.	A clinic licensed pursuant to Chapter 1 of Division 2 of foe Health and
Safety Code.

b.	A health care facility licensed pursuant to Chapter 2 of Division 2 of the
Health and Safety Code.

c.	A residential care facility for persons with chronic life-threatening illness
licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.01 of Division 2 of foe Health and Safety
Code.

d.	A residential care facility for the elderly licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.2
of Division 2 of foe Health and Safety Code.

e.	A hospice or a home health agency, licensed pursuant to Chapter 8 of
Division 2 of foe Health and Safety Code.

U.	“Member” means either a qualified patient, a person with an identification card, or a
primary caregiver.

V.	“Non-profit” means to use surplus revenue to achieve foe goals of an organization rather
than distributing surplus revenue as profit or dividends.

W.	“Owner” means foe owner of a medical cannabis dispensary and/or a medical cannabis
cultivation site.

X.	“Permit” means the various regulatory licenses issued pursuant to this chapter, including

4

-29-

but not limited to a license for a medical cannabis business.

Y.	“Person” means any natural person, firm, corporation, partnership, club, or any
association or combination of natural persons, whether acting by themselves or through
any servant, agent or employee.

Z.	“Person with an identification card” has die same definition as set forth in Health and
Safety Code section 11362.7, and as may be amended, and which provides that “Person
with an identification card” means an individual who is a qualified patient who has
applied for and received a valid identification card pursuant to this article [being Article
2.5 of Chapter 6 of Division 10 of the Health and Safety Code].

AA. “Physician’s referral” means a written recommendation for a patient from a
licensed medical doctor indicating that cannabis would be a beneficial treatment for a
serious medical condition of the patient

BB. “Police Department” means the Police Department of the City of Blythe.

CC. “Primary caregiver7’ has the same definition as set forth in Health and Safety
Code section 11362.7(d), (e), and as maybe amended.

DD. “Proceeds” means gross receipts of any kind, including without limitation,
membership dues; the value of in-ldnd contributions; reimbursements provided by
members regardless of form; any payments made; and anything else of value obtained by
a medical cannabis business.

EE. “Qualified Patient” has the same definition as set forth in Health and Safety Code section
11362.7(f).

FF. “Reasonable Compensation” means compensation commensurate with wages and
benefits paid to officers and employees of other not-for-profit organizations who have
similar job descriptions and duties, required level of education and experience, prior
individual earnings history, and number of horns worked.

GG. “Serious Medical Condition” has the same definition as set forth in Health and
Safety Code section 11362.7(h), and as may be amended.

Section 5.22.030 Operation Prohibited Without Permit

It shall be unlawful to own, establish, operate, use, or permit die establishment or operation of a
medical cannabis business, or to participate with or in a medical cannabis business as an
employee, contractor, agent, volunteer, or in any manner or capacity other than aa provided in
this chapter. The general prohibition contained in this section shall include renting, leasing, or
otherwise permitting a medical cannabis business to occupy or use a location, vehicle, or other
mode of transportation.

Hie general prohibition contained in this section shall not operate until the City Council
determines by resolution that this section is operative, to coincide on or about the date when the
City Council establishes, pursuant to the requirements of this chapter, the practices and
procedures governing a valid medical cannabis business permit

Section 5.22.040 Maximum Numbers of Medical Cannabis Businesses

5

-30-

No more than three (3) permitted medical cannabis businesses shall be maintained or operated in
the City at any time.

The selection process applied to applications for the limited number of permits shall be governed
by regulations and procedures to be determined by the City Council, which may (but is not
required to) consist of a lottery, a priority system for existing uses, and/or an interview process.

Section 5.22.050 Medical Cannabis Business Permits

Prior to initiating operations as a medical cannabis business and as a continuing requisite to
conducting operations, the owner of a medical cannabis business shall obtain a regulatory permit
from the City Manager or his/her designee under the terms and conditions set forth in this
chapter.

A.	Conditions necessary for the continuing validity of any and all regulatory permits issued
for the operation of a medical cannabis business will be set forth by further action of the
City Council.

B.	Separate permits may be required for the cultivation of medical cannabis at a specific
location, as distinct from the dispensing of medical cannabis at a specific location.

C.	The City Council retains die authority to establish any and all lawful conditions for the
issuance, as well as the revocation, of medical cannabis business permits and licenses.

Section 5.22.050. General Operating Standards and Restrictions

A medical cannabis business shall operate in conformance with the following minimum
standards, and such standards shall be deemed to be part of the conditions of approval on the
permit for a medical cannabis business to ensure that its operation is in compliance with
California law, the Attorney General Guidelines, and the Blythe Municipal Code, and to mitigate
any potential adverse impacts of the medical cannabis business on the public health, safety or
welfare. These conditions may be amended from time to time as determined by the City Council.

A.	Security.

1.	Any criminal activity occurring at the location of a medical cannabis business
and/or at the location where medical cannabis is cultivated, which an employee is
aware of, or should reasonably be aware of and which violation constitutes a
felony violation as defined in the Penal Code, or any act of theft, shall be reported
to the City Manager or the City Police Department immediately upon discovery.

2.	One security guard who is licensed by the State of California shall be present at
die location of the medical cannabis business during all business hours. The
security guard shall only be engaged in activities related to providing security for
tire medical cannabis business, except on an incidental basis. The medical
cannabis business shall take those steps necessary to assure that the persons
assigned to provide security are properly trained or employed by a private security
service in good standing with all supervisory or regulatory bodies exercising
jurisdiction over such services. Each security guard shall possess a “Security
Guard Card” at all times, and shall not possess firearms. The duties of the security
guard shall include but are not limited to:

a.	Ensuring no person smokes any substance within twenty feet (200 of any
building entrance, exit, window and air intake vent.

6

-31-

b.	Monitoring of the outside of the premises for loitering and unlawful sale
of medical cannabis by members. Security guards shall be directed to
report to the medical cannabis business all unlawful sales of medical
cannabis by members, and the medical cannabis business shall make a
report immediately to the Blythe Chief of Police.

3.	Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in good condition, and used in
an on-going manner with at least 30 days of digitally recorded documentation in a
format approved by the City Manager or his/her designee. The cameras shall be in
use 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. The areas to be covered by the security
cameras include, but are not limited to, the storage areas, cultivation areas, all
doors and windows, and any other areas as determined by the City Manager or
his/her designee. Signs on the premises shall not obstruct the full and complete
operation of the security camera system.

4.	The location of the medical cannabis business shall be alarmed with a centrally-
monitored fire and burglar alarm system, and monitored by an alarm company
properly licensed by the State of California Department of Consumer Affairs
Bureau of Security and Investigative Services in accordance with California
Business & Professions Code section 7590 et seq. and whose agents are properly
licensed and registered under applicable law.

5.	All entrances into the building housing a medical cannabis business shall be
locked from the exterior at all times with entry controlled by employees.

B.	Authorizations.

1.	The City Manager or his/her designee shall have the right to enter the medical
cannabis dispensary and/or cultivation site from time to time unannounced for the
purpose of making reasonable inspections to observe and enforce compliance with
this chapter and all laws of the city and State of California.

2.	Recordings made by security cameras required pursuant to this chapter shall be
made available to the City Manager or his/her designee or the Police Department
upon verbal request; no search warrant or subpoena shall be needed to view the
recorded materials.

C.	Indemnification and Defense of City.

1.	A medical cannabis business shall execute an agreement with the city
indemnifying the city, its elected officials, employees, agents, officers, and
representatives, and each and all of them individually, from all liability in
connection with all claims, damages, attorney’s fees, costs and allegations arising
from or in any way related to foe operation of foe medical cannabis business.
Failure to execute and maintain tins agreement will automatically void any
prospective or current permits provided by, or issued under, this chapter.

2.	A medical cannabis business shall execute an agreement with foe city to defend at
its sole expense, any action against the city, its elected officials, employees,
agents, officers, and representatives, and each and all of them individually, which
arises from foe application and/or use of this chapter by an applicant, as well to
reimburse foe city for any court costs and attorney fees that the city may be

7

-32-

required to pay as a result of such action. The city may, at its sole discretion,
participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action. Failure to execute
and maintain this agreement will automatically void any prospective or current
permits provided by, or issued under, this chapter.

D.	No Minors.

Minors are prohibited from entering the location of the medical cannabis business unless
they are a qualified patient or a primary caregiver and they are in the presence of their
parent or legal guardian.

E.	Odors.

A medical cannabis business shall have an air treatment system that ensures off-site odors
shall not result from its operations. This requirement at a minimum means that the
medical cannabis business shall be designed to provide sufficient odor absorbing
ventilation and exhaust systems so that any odor generated inside the location of the
medical cannabis business is not detected outside the building, on adjacent properties or
public rights-of-way, or within any other unit located within the same building as the
medical cannabis business, if the use only occupies a portion of a building.

F.	Site management.

1.	The medical cannabis business permit holder shall take all reasonable steps to
discourage and correct conditions that constitute a nuisance in parking areas,
sidewalks, alleys and areas surrounding the premises and adjacent properties
during business hours if related to the members of the subject medical cannabis
business.

a.	"Reasonable steps" shall include immediately calling die Police
Department upon observation of the activity, and requesting that those
engaging in activities that constitute a nuisance or are otherwise illegal to
cease those activities, unless personal safety would be threatened in
making the request

b.	"Nuisance" includes but is not limited to disturbances of peace, open
public consumption of medical cannabis or alcohol, excessive pedestrian
or vehicular traffic, including the formation of any pedestrian lines outside
the building, illegal drug activity, harassment of passersby, excessive
littering, excessive loitering, illegal parking, excessive loud noises,
especially late at night or early in the morning hours, lewd conduct or
police detentions and arrests.

2.	The medical cannabis business pennit holder shall make available to members
who are dispensed medical cannabis a list of the rules and regulations governing
medical cannabis use and consumption within the city and recommendations on
sensible medical cannabis etiquette.

G.	Records.

1.	Medical cannabis businesses shall maintain records reflecting:

a.	The foil name; address, and telephone numbers) of foe owner and/or
lessee of the property.

8

-33-

b.	Full and complete compliance with all of the provisions of Section
5.22.080 governing taxes. Such compliance is determined by the
reasonable ability of the City to conduct an audit on such records which
can determine whether die medical cannabis business is in full and
complete compliance with Section 5.22.080.

c.	The full name, address, and telephone numbers) of all employees.

d.	Results of annual live scans of all employees.

e.	The full name, address, and telephone numbers) of all members who
participate in cultivation of cannabis.

£ The state issued identification card number of all members to whom the
medical cannabis business provides medical cannabis. If a member does
not have a state issued identification card, then the medical cannabis
business shall assign the member a unique identifying number for die use
of the medical cannabis business, and maintain a written copy of the
physician’s referral for the member.

g.	The full name, address, and telephone numbers) of all members to whom
the medical cannabis business provides medical cannabis.

h.	The designation, by qualified patients) and person(s) with identification
cards, of any and all primary caregivers who participate in the collective
cultivation of cannabis.

i.	The dates upon which all members are dispensed medical cannabis, the
amount dispensed, and the name of the recipient.

j.	The delivery of medical cannabis, from the medical cannabis business to a
member located outside of the medical cannabis business location,
including but not limited to the identity of the recipient, the amount
delivered, the date of tire delivery, the address of the delivery, the name of
the employee making the delivery, and a written receipt from the member
confirming the delivery.

k.	A written accounting of all cash, payments and in-kind contributions,
reimbursements, and reasonable compensation provided by the
management members and members to the medical cannabis business, and
all expenditures and costs incurred by the medical cannabis business.

L A copy of the medical cannabis business' commercial general liability
insurance policy and all other insurance policies related to the operation of
the medical cannabis business.

m.	An inventory record documenting the dates and amounts of medical
cannabis received at the medical cannabis business, the amounts of
medical cannabis being cultivated at the location of the medical cannabis
business, the daily amounts of medical cannabis stared at the location of
the medical cannabis business, and the daily amounts distributed to
members.

9

-34-

n.	Proof of a valid and current permit issued by the city in accordance with
this chapter. Every medical cannabis business shall display at all times
during business hours the permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter in a conspicuous place so that it may be readily seen by all persons
entering the location of the medical cannabis business.

2.	Records shall be maintained on-site, either in paper or electronic form, and
secured and verified by the City Manager or his/her designee as needed
(consistent with requirements pertaining to patient confidentiality pursuant to
applicable State and Federal law), and at least every 12 months by the qualified
patient's attending physician.

3.	All records are required to be maintained by the medical cannabis business for no
less than 3 years and are subject to immediate inspection upon written request by
the City Manager or his/her designee.

H.	Employees.

1.	A medical cannabis business shall maintain results of live scans conducted
annually by the medical cannabis business on all employees, die written results of
such live scans being maintained at the location of the medical cannabis business.

2.	No employee convicted within the last ten years of a felony shall be employed by
a medical cannabis business, unless such employee has obtained a certificate of
rehabilitation (expungement of felony record) under California law or under a
similar federal statute cnr state law where the expungement was granted.

3.	All employees must possess a valid government issued (or equivalent) form of
identification containing an identifying photograph of the employee, die name of
the employee, the date of birth of the employee, and the residential address of the
employee. Color copies of such identification shall be maintained at the location
of the medical cannabis business. A valid California Driver’s license will satisfy
this requirement.

4.	All employees must have a current and valid identification card.

I.	No Recommendations On-site.

A medical cannabis business shall not have a physician or an attending physician at the
location of the medical cannabis business to evaluate patients or provide a
recommendation for medical cannabis.

J.	Labeling.

1.	Any medical cannabis provided to members shall be property labeled in strict
compliance with state and local laws, regulations and policies.

2.	A distinct and clearly legible label must be affixed onto all medical cannabis
items provided by a medical cannabis business which states:

a.	This item contains medical cannabis.

b.	Warning that the item is a medication and not a food.

c.	Warning that the item is to be kept away from children.

d.	Warning if nuts or other known allergens are used.

10

-35-

e.	The specific date of manufacture.

f.	Total weight (in ounces or grains) of cannabis in the item.

3.	Packaging that makes the product attractive to children or imitates candy is not
allowed.

4.	Any edible cannabis product that is made to resemble a typical food product (i.e.
brownie, cake) must be in a properly labeled opaque (non see-through) package
before it leaves the medical cannabis business.

5.	The City Council is authorized to establish additional minimum requirements as
deemed necessary for labeling of medical cannabis products, which shall be
strictly adhered to by all medical cannabis businesses.

K.	Use Restrictions.

Smoking ingesting or consuming cannabis at the location of the medical cannabis
business or within 20 feet of the medical cannabis business is prohibited.

L.	Non-profit.

1.	A medical cannabis business shall operate on a non-profit basis. A medical
cannabis business shall not profit from the sale or distribution of cannabis. Any
monetary reimbursement that members provide to the medical cannabis business
should only be an amount necessary to cover overhead costs and operating
expenses. Retail sales of medical cannabis that violate California law or this
chapter are expressly prohibited.

2.	Reasonable proof (as determined to the satisfaction of the City Manager or his/her
designee) of compliance with these non-profit requirements shall be providing
annually to the City Manager or his/her designee in writing along with supporting
documentation.

M.	Delivery of Medical Cannabis to Members.

The City Council and or/its designees may establish regulations and restrictions on the
delivery of medical cannabis from or to a medical cannabis business.

N.	Insurance.

A medical cannabis business shall carry insurance in the amounts and of the types that
are acceptable to the City Manager or his/her designee. Such insurance shall name the
city, its council members, officers, employees, agents and contractors as additional
insured as respects to any liability arising out of the operation of toe medical cannabis
business.

O.	Edibles.

Regulations governing medical cannabis edibles shall be established by the City Council
or its designees.

P Operating Hours for Medical Cannabis Dispensary.

11

-36-

The maximum hours of operation for a medical cannabis dispensary shall be established
by the City Manager or his/her designees.

Section 5.22.070. Fees

The fee measures provided for in this section which apply to medical cannabis are intended to
equally apply to all cannabis if statewide authorization of general cannabis use in California is
promulgated in the future.

A.	Fees.

1.	An application fee set by resolution of the City Council shall be required for
formal processing of every application made under this chapter.

2.	The City Council is authorized to pass resolutions to recover any and all fees and
costs incurred by the implementation of this chapter through an appropriate fee
recovery mechanism to be imposed upon medical cannabis businesses and their
operations.

3.	An annual medical cannabis business license fee set by resolution of the City
Council, but not to exceed $10,000, shall be required for foe issuance of a medical
cannabis business permit.

B.	State Board of Equalization Seller’s Permit Required.

The State Board of Equalization has determined that medical cannabis transactions are
subject to sales tax, regardless of whether foe individual or group makes a profit, and
those engaging in transactions involving medical cannabis must obtain a Seller's Permit
from the State Board of Equalization. Such permit shall be conspicuously displayed at foe
Medical Cannabis Business. Failure to maintain foe Seller's Permit is grounds for
revocation of a medical cannabis dispensary permit and/or medical cannabis cultivation
site permit

Section 5.22.080. Taxes

The tax measures provided for in Ibis section which apply to medical cannabis are intended to
equally apply to all cannabis if statewide authorization of general cannabis use in California is
promulgated in foe future.

A.	Medical	Cannabis Tax.

1.	Every	person	engaged	in	operating or otherwise conducting a

medical cannabis business, and regardless of whether such business has valid
permit(s) pursuant to this Code and/or this chapter, shall pay a maximum cannabis
tax of 15 cents for each $1.00 of proceeds or fractional part thereof the rate to be
set by resolution of foe City Council.

2.	Every	person	engaged in foe cultivation of medical cannabis, and

regardless of whether such cultivation has valid permits) pursuant to this Code
and/or this chapter, shall pay a maximum monthly fee of $10.00 per square foot
under active cultivation, foe rate to be set by resolution of foe City Council

3.	Failure	to	pay	the taxes set forth in this chapter shall be subject to

penalties, interest charges, and assessments as foe City Council may establish and

12

-37-

the City may use any or all other code enforcement remedies provided in this
Code.

4.	The	City Council may impose the tax authorized by this chapter at

a lower rate and may establish exemptions, incentives, or other reductions, and
penalties and interest charges or assessments for failure to pay foe tax in a timely
manner, as otherwise allowed by Code or California law. No action by the
Council under this Section shall prevent it from later increasing foe tax or
removing any exemption, incentive, or reduction, and restoring foe maximum tax
specified in this chapter.

5.	The	payment	of	the	tax	required	pursuant	to	this	chapter shall not

be construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal business or
of a legal business in an illegal manna. Nothing in this chapter implies or
authorizes that any activity connected with the fostribution or possession of
cannabis is legal unless otherwise authorized and allowed in strict and foil
conformance to the provisions of this Code. Nothing in this chapter shall be
applied or construed as authorizing foe sale of cannabis.

6.	Taxes	provided	for	under	the	provisions	of	this	chapter	are	not

sales or use taxes and shall not be calculated or assessed as such. The taxes shall
not be separately identified or otherwise specifically assessed or charged to any
individual membra-; rather, the taxes are imposed upon the medical cannabis
business.

7.	The	City	Manager	or his/her designee shall promulgate rules,

regulations, and procedures to implement and administer this chapter to ensure the
efficient and timely collection of foe tax imposed by this chapter, including
without limitation, formulation and implementation of penalties and interest to be
assessed for failure to pay the tax as provided.

B.	Returns and Remittances.

The Tax shall be due and payable as follows:

1.	Each person owing Tax, on or before the last business day of each calendar month
as established by foe City Manager, shall prepare a tax return to the City Manager
of foe total proceeds and/or total square feet under active cultivation, and foe
amount of Tax owed for the preceding calendar month. At foe time the Tax return
is filed, the foil amount of foe Tax owed for foe preceding calendar month shall be
remitted to foe city.

2.	All tax returns shall be completed on forms provided by the City Manager or
his/her designee.

3.	Tax returns and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the city are immediately
due the City Manager upon cessation of business for any reason.

4.	Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication
received by foe City Manager is received after foe time prescribed by tins section
for the receipt thereof, but is in an envelope bearing a postmark showing that it
was mailed on or prior to the date prescribed in this section for the receipt thereof,
or whenever the City Manager is furnished substantial proof that the payment,
statement, report, request, or other communication was in feet deposited in foe

13

-38-

United States mail on or prior to the date prescribed for receipt thereof, the City
Manager may regard suck payment, statement, report, request, or other
communication as having been timely received. If the due day falls on Friday,
Saturday, Sunday, or a federal holiday, the due day shall be the last regular
business day on which die City Hall is open to the public prior to the due date.

5.	Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this Chapter, the
taxes required to be paid pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed delinquent if
not paid on or before the due date specified in by this section.

6.	The City Manager is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to
any person subject to the provisions of this Chapter and failure to send such notice
or bill shall not affect the validity of any tax or penalty due under the provisions
of this Chapter.

C.	Failure to Pay Tax,

Any person who tails or refuses to pay any tax required to be paid pursuant to this
chapter on or before the due date shall pay penalties and interest as follows:

1.	A penalty equal to twenty-five percent of the amount of foe Tax in addition to foe
amount of foe Tax, plus interest on foe unpaid Tax calculated from foe due date of
foe Tax at a rate established by resolution of foe City Council; and, an additional
penalty equal to twenty-five percent of foe amount of foe Tax if foe tax remains
unpaid for a period exceeding one calendar month beyond foe due date, plus
interest on foe unpaid Tax and interest on foe unpaid penalties calculated at foe
rate established by resolution of foe City Council.

2.	Whenever a check is submitted in payment of a Tax and foe check is subsequently
returned unpaid by foe bank upon which foe check is drawn, and foe check is not
redeemed prior to foe due date, foe taxpayer will be liable for foe Tax amount due
plus penalties and interest as provided for in this section plus any amount allowed
under state law.

3.	The Tax due shall be that amount due and payable from foe operative date of this
Chapter.

4.	The City Manager may waive foe first and second penalties of twenty-five percent
each imposed upon any person if:

a.	The person provides evidence satisfactory to foe City Manager that failure
to pay timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of foe person
and occurred notwithstanding foe exercise of ordinary care and foe
absence of willful neglect, and foe person paid foe delinquent business tax
and accrued interest owed foe city prior to applying to foe City Manager
fin a waiver.

b.	The waiver provisions specified in this subsection shall not apply to
interest accrued on foe delinquent tax and a waiver shall be granted only
once during any twenty-four month period.

D.	Refunds.

1. No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this chapter, except as
provided in this Section.

14

-39-

2. No refund of any Tax collected pursuant to this chapter shall be made because of
the discontinuation, dissolution, or other termination of a medical cannabis

business.

3.	Any person entitled to a refund of taxes paid pursuant to this chapter may elect in
writing to have such refund applied as a credit against medical cannabis business
Taxes for the next calendar month.

4.	Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been overpaid, paid
more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
city under this chapter, such amount may be refunded to the claimant who paid
the Tax provided that a written claim for refund is filed with the City Manager.

5.	The City Manager shall have the right to examine and audit all the books and
business records of the claimant in order to determine the eligibility of the
claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund shall he Slowed if the
claimant therefor refuses to allow such examination of claimant’s books and
business records after request by the City Manager to do so.

6.	In the event that the Tax was erroneously paid and the error is attributable to the
city, the entire amount of the Tax erroneously paid shall be refunded to the
claimant If the error is attributable to the claimant, the city shall retain the
amount set forth in this Chapter from the amount to be refunded to cover
expenses.

7.	The City Manager shall initiate a refund of any Tax which has been overpaid or
erroneously collected whenever the overpayment or erroneous collection is
uncovered by a city audit of Tax receipts. In the event that the Tax was
erroneously paid and tire error is attributable to the city, the entire amount of the
Tax erroneously paid shall be refunded to the claimant If the error is attributable
to the claimant, foe city shall retain foe amount set forth in this chapter from the
amount to be refunded to cover expenses.

E.	Enforcement

1.	It shall be file duty of the City Manager to enforce each and all of foe provisions
of this chapter.

2.	For purposes of administration and enforcement of this chapter generally, foe City
Manager, with the concurrence of the City Attorney, may from time to time
promulgate administrative rules and regulations.

3.	The City Manager or his/her designee shall have the power to audit and examine
all books and records of medical cannabis businesses as well as persons engaged
in foe operation of a medical cannabis business, including both state and federal
income tax returns, California sales tax returns, cultivation records or logs, or
other evidence documenting foe gross receipts of foe medical cannabis business or
persons engaged in foe operation of a medical cannabis business, or other
evidence documenting the cultivation of medical cannabis, for the purpose of
ascertaining foe amount of Tax, if any, required to be paid by foe provisions of
this chapter, and for the purpose of verifying any statements or any item thereof
when filed by any person pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. If such
medical cannabis business or person, after written demand by foe City Manager,

15

-40-

refuses to make available for audit, examination or verification such books,
records, or equipment as the City Manager requests, the City Manager may, after
full consideration of all information within the City Manager’s knowledge
concerning die medical cannabis business and activities of the person so refusing,
make an assessment in the manner provided in subsection (F) of this Section.

4.	The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required tax
shall not excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the tax debt
unpaid at the time of such conviction. No civil action shall prevent a criminal
prosecution for any violation of the provisions of this chapter or of any state law
requiring the payment of all taxes.

5.	Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter or any regulation or
rule passed in accordance herewith, or knowingly or intentionally misrepresenting
to any officer or employee of the City any material fact in procuring permits from
the City as provided for in tins Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

F.	Debts; Deficiencies; Assessments.

1.	The amount of any tax, penalties, and interest imposed by the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a debt to the city and any person operating a medical
cannabis business without also making payment to the city of the taxes imposed
by this chapter shall be liable in an action in the name of the city in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the tax, and penalties and interest
imposed on such medical cannabis business.

2.	If the City Manager is not satisfied that any statement filed as required under the
provisions of fins chapter is correct, or that the amount of tax is correctly
computed, the City Manager may compute and determine the amount to be paid
and make a deficiency determination upon the basis of the foots contained in the
statement or upon the basis of any information in his or her possession or that
may come into his or her possession. One or more deficiency determinations of
the amount of tax due for a period or periods may be made. When a person
discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency determination may be made at
any time within three years thereafter as to any liability arising from engaging in
such business whether or not a deficiency determination is issued prior to the date
the tax would otherwise be due.

3.	Under any of the following circumstances, the City Manager may make and give
notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person under this Chapter:

a.	If the person has not filed any statement or return required under the
provisions of this chapter;

b.	If the person has not paid any tax due under file provisions of this chapter;

c.	If the person has not, after demand by the City Manager, filed a corrected
statement or return, or furnished to the City Manager adequate
substantiation of the information contained in a statement or return already
filed, or paid any additional amount of tax due under the provisions of this
chapter;

d.	If the City Manager determines that the nonpayment of any tax due under
this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of file amount
of fiie tax shall be added thereto in addition to penalties and interest
otherwise stated in this chapter.

e.	The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax

16

-41-

known by the City Manager to be due or estimated by the City Manager,
after consideration of all information within the City Manager’s
knowledge concerning the business and activities of the person assessed,
to be due under each applicable section of this Chapter, and shall include
die amount of any penalties or interest accrued on each amount to the date
of the notice of assessment.

f.	The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person either by
handing it to him or her personally, or by a deposit of the notice in the
United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at the
address of the location of the business appearing on the face of the
business tax certificate issued under this Code or to such other address as
he or she shall register with the City Manager tor die purpose of receiving
notices provided under this Chapter; or, should the person have no
business tax certificate issued and should the person have no address
registered with the City Manager tor such purpose, then to such person’s
last known address. For die purposes of this section, a service by mail is
complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.

g.	Within ten days after the date of service the person may apply in writing to
the City Manager for a hearing on the assessment If application for a
hearing before die City is not made within die time herein prescribed, the
tax assessed by the City Manager shall become final and conclusive.
Within thirty days of the receipt of any such application tor hearing, die
City Manager shall cause die matter to be set tor hearing before a hearing
officer pursuant to the provisions of this Code not later than thirty days
after the date of application, unless a later date is agreed to by the City
Manager and the person requesting the hearing. Notice of such hearing
shall be given by the City Manager to the person requesting such hearing
not later than five days prior to such hearing. At such hearing said
applicant may appear and offer evidence why the assessment as made by
the City Manager should not be confirmed and fixed as the tax due. After
such hearing the hearing officer shall determine and reassess the proper
tax to be charged and shall give written notice to the person in the manner
prescribed in this Chapter for giving notice of assessment

Section 5.22.090. Location Restrictions.

A.	Medical cannabis businesses shall not be located within five hundred (500) feet of a
public or private school, public library or youth center (serving youth ages eighteen (18)
and undo*).

B.	Medical cannabis businesses shall not be located within five hundred (500’) feet of a
residential zone except pursuant to the issuance of a minor conditional use permit as
determined by the director of development services.

C.	No medical cannabis dispensary can be located within five hundred (500’) feet of any
other medical cannabis dispensary, irrespective of ownership.

D.	Medical cannabis businesses may only be located in zones as designated by the City
Council.

Section 5.22.100. Suspension and Revocation.

The City Manager or his/her designee is authorized to suspend and/or revoke any and all permits
and/or licenses issued pursuant to this chapter upon the determination through written findings of

17

-42-

a failure to comply with any provision of this chapter, any condition of approval, or any
agreement or covenant as required pursuant to this chapter. The City Manager or his/her
designee may revoke a medical cannabis business permit if any of the following, singularly or in
combination, occur:

A.	The City Manager or his/her designee determines that the medical cannabis dispensary or
cultivation site has failed to comply with any aspect of this chapter, any condition or
approval, or any agreement or covenant as required pursuant to this chapter; or

B.	Operations cease for more than 180 calendar days (including during any change of
ownership, if applicable); or

C.	Ownership is changed without securing a new regulatory permit; or

D.	The medical cannabis dispensary and/or cultivation site foils to maintain required security
camera recordings; or

E.	The medical cannabis dispensary and/or cultivation site fails to allow inspection of the
security recordings, the records, the activity logs, or of the premise by authorized city
officials.

Section 5.22.110. Violations and Penalties.

Any person, whether as principal, employee, agent, partner, director, officer, stockholder, or
trustee or otherwise, violating or causing the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and any conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for not more than six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment Any violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense for each and every day during which such violation is
committed or continued.

Section 5.22.120. Public Nuisance.

In addition to the penalties set forth in this chapter, any medical cannabis business which is
operating in violation of any provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance and, as such, may be abated or enjoined from further operation. All costs to abate such
public nuisance, including attorneys' fees and court costs, shall be paid by the permit holder of
the medical cannabis business pursuant to Chapter 8.28 (Nuisances) of Title 8 (Health and
Safety) of the Blythe Municipal Code. Any appeals to a determination that a medical cannabis
business is operating as a public nuisance shall be pursuant to the provisions in the same chapter.

Section 5.22.130. Appeals

Any decision regarding approval, conditional approval, denial, suspension or revocation may be
appealed to the city manager in writing for a review and decision. Said appeal must be filed
within thirty days of the decision. If further appeal is required the person snail file a notice of
appeal with foe city clerk within fifteen days of the city manager's decision. The city clerk shall
present foe notice to the city council and the council shall set a time and place fin hearing such
appeal.

Section 5.22.140. Prohibited Operations and Nonconforming Use

All medical cannabis businesses in violation of Health and Safety Code Section 11362.7 et seq.
and 11362.5 et seq., this chapter, or any other applicable State law are expressly prohibited.

18

-43

It is unlawful for any medical cannabis business in the city, or any agent, employee or
representative of such medical cannabis business, to permit any breach of peace therein or any
disturbance of public order or decorum by any tumultuous, riotous or disorderly conduct on the
premises of foe medical cannabis business, or to violate any State law, or this chapter.

No use which purports to have distributed cannabis prior to foe enactment of this chapter shall be
deemed to have been a legally established use under foe provisions of foe Blythe Zoning Code,
foe Blythe Municipal Code, or any other local ordinance, rule or regulation, and such use shall
not be entitled to claim legal nonconforming status.

Section 5.22.150. Severability

If any section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or portion of this
Ordinance is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by foe decision of any court
of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect foe validity of foe remaining portions of
this Ordinance. The People of the City of Blythe hereby declare that they would have adopted
this Ordinance and each section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or
portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions,
sentences, clauses, phrases, words or portions thereof be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 5.22.160. Consistency with Statewide Regulation of Cannabis

This chapter shall be read consistent with any statewide regulation of medical cannabis that is
promulgated by foe California legislature or by voter approval in the future. In foe event
statewide regulation is passed pursuant to foe decriminalization or legalization of cannabis for
recreational use, this chapter shall govern the conduct of those business allowed to distribute
cannabis under such provisions to the fullest extent possible consistent with such statewide
regulation, including but not limited to foe taxation of cannabis.

19

-44-

RESOLUTION NO. 2014-028

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLYTHE, CALIFORNIA SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS OF
THE CITY OF BLYTHE, CALIFORNIA A MEASURE TO
AUTHORIZE, REGULATE AND TAX MEDICIAL CANNABIS
BUSINESSES

WHEREAS, in 1996 the California voters approved Proposition 215 (known as the
Compassionate Use Act (the “CUA”) and codified as Health and Safety Code Section 11362.5 et
seq.) to exempt certain patients and their primary caregivers from criminal liability under state
law for the possession and cultivation of cannabis for medical purposes; and

WHEREAS, in 2003 the California legislature enacted Senate Bill 420 (known as the
Medical Marijuana Program Act (the “MMPA”) and codified as Health and Safety Code Section
11362.7 et seq.), as later amended, to clarify the scope of the Compassionate Use Act relating to
the possession and cultivation of cannabis for medical purpose, and to authorize local governing
bodies to adopt and enforce laws consistent with its provisions; and

WHEREAS, in 2005 the California Board of Equalization began issuing seller’s permits
for sales consisting only of medical cannabis; and

WHEREAS, in 2008 the California Attorney General issued guidelines for the security
and non-diversion of cannabis grown for medical use; and

WHEREAS, in 2014 the U.S. House of Representatives voted to stop federal law
enforcement from interfering with medical cannabis operations in the various states which have
decriminalized and/or authorized such operations; and

WHEREAS, Health & Safety Code Section 11362.83 provides that cities are free to
adopt and enforce local ordinances that regulate the location, operation, or establishment of
medical cannabis dispensaries and cultivation; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Blythe intends that nothing in this Ordinance
shall be deemed to conflict with federal law as contained in the Controlled Substances Act, nor
to otherwise permit any activity that is prohibited under that Act or other applicable law; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Blythe intends that nothing in this Ordinance
shall be construed to allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers others or causes a public
nuisance, to allow the use of cannabis for non-medical purposes, or to allow any activity relating
to the cultivation, distribution or consumption of cannabis that is otherwise illegal; and

WHEREAS, the operation of medical cannabis dispensaries and the cultivation of
medical cannabis within the City of Blythe presently remains prohibited and unregulated; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Blythe finds that medical cannabis
operations and cultivation require careful consideration, as does the regulation of the location
and manner in which dispensaries operate and cultivation occurs, so as to prevent negative
impacts on nearby residents and businesses; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Blythe finds that the City of Blythe has a
compelling interest in protecting the public health, safety and welfare of its residents and

businesses by regulating the location and operation of medical cannabis dispensaries and medical
cannabis cultivation, in preserving the peace and quiet of the neighborhoods in which medical
cannabis dispensaries operate and medical cannabis is cultivated, and in providing
compassionate access to medical cannabis to its seriously ill residents; and

WHEREAS, the California Constitution grants local governments in Article XI, Section 7
the authority under their police powers to regulate land use; and

WHEREAS, the proposed ordinance has been reviewed by City staff in accordance with
the Environmental Checklist Form (Appendix G of the CEQA Guidelines) to determine if there
would be any possibility that the proposed ordinance would have the possibility of creating any
environmental impacts, and City staff has determined that the establishment of regulations for
medical cannabis businesses does not meet any of the thresholds contained in the Checklist that
would trigger an environmental impact, and thus according to the “general rule exemption”
(Section 15061(b)(3)) of the CEQA Guidelines, projects which have no potential for causing a
significant effect on die environment are not subject to CEQA, no further environmental analysis
is required, and a notice of exemption will be filed;

WHEREAS, pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution and Section 53720 et. seq. of the Government Code the City Council is authorized
to impose a general tax upon submission of such general tax to the voters of the City and
approval by a majority of the voters voting on the issue, at an election consolidated with a
regularly scheduled general election for members of the governing body of the local government,
except in cases of emergency declared by unanimous vote of the governing body; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters of the City, pursuant to this
Resolution, a ballot measure on Ordinance No. 2014-025 to authorize, regulate and tax medical
cannabis businesses;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLYTHE,
CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That the City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does order
submitted to the voters at the General Municipal Election the following question:

Measure A: Authorize, Regulate and Tax Medical Cannabis Businesses	Response	Vote
Shall Ordinance No. 866-14 that would authorize and regulate medical cannabis businesses; charge each medical cannabis business a maximum of $10,000 per year for each business license issued; and tax each medical cannabis business at the maximum rate of fifteen cents for each $1.00 of proceeds collected and at a maximum monthly rate of $10 a square foot of cannabis cultivated; be adopted?	Yes	
	No	

SECTION 2. That the proposed measure submitted to the voters is attached as Exhibit A,
being Ordinance No. 2014-025

n

(

SECTION 3. The method of tax collection and all aspects of the application and
operation of any tax levied pursuant to the adoption of Ordinance No. 2014-025 shall be as
provided for in the ordinance and/or as authorized in the ordinance to be conducted and
determined by the City Council, and any such tax shall become effective only upon approval of a
majority of the votes cast by the voters voting upon the ballot measure.

SECTION 4. The ballot measure shall not take effect, and no tax authorized by the ballot
measure, shall be levied, unless and until the ballot measure receives the approval of a majority
of the votes cast by the voters of the City voting upon the ballot measure at the November 4,
2014 general municipal election.

SECTION 5. That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 6. That notice of die time and place of holding the election is given and the
City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 7. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 29th day of My, 2014, by the following

vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ATTEST:

Evans, Wade, DeConinck, Galvan and Cusick
None
None

Mike Evans, Mayor

Klafiory Suffer field, City Clerk