CONTRA COSTA COUNTY

BT 1

Special By-Mail Election

May 6, 2014

Eleccion Especial Por-Correspondencia

Mayo 6, 2014

This is an all-mail ballot special election. There are no polling
places for this election.

Esta es una eleccion especial de votacion por correo. No hay
lugares de votacion para esta eleccion.

VIP3

To return your ballot by mail

Mail your ballot in the enclosed official ballot envelope.

Your ballot must be received in our office by 8 p.m. on Election Day.

Postmarks do not count.

To return your ballot in person on Election Day

On Election Day only, you may return your ballot at the ballot return
centers listed on the back of this booklet.

The ballot return centers will be open May 6, 2014 from 7:00 a.m. to 8
p.m.

To return the ballot in person

Turn in at the Elections Office located at 555 Escobar St. Martinez.

Office hours are Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and 7 a.m. to 8
p.m. on Election Day.

If you have any questions or need a replacement ballot

Call the Contra Costa County Elections Division (925) 335-7800

Replacement ballots will be available from April 7, 2014 through May 6,
2014.

Military and Overseas Voters

Vote and return your ballot as soon as possible. If you are concerned
your ballot may not reach us in time to be counted, please call us at
(877) 335-7802, fax us at (925) 335-7838 or email us at
MOV.Services@vote.cccountv.us for further instructions for returning
your ballot.

Our overnight/express mail address is:

Contra Costa County - Elections Division
555 Escobar Street
Martinez, CA 94553

MEASURE A
ACALANES UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

In order to preserve the high quality of education in our local high
schools, continue offering advanced courses in math, science,
technology, music and the arts, attract and retain highly qualified
teachers, and maintain manageable class sizes, shall the Acalanes
Union High School District, with no increase in the current rate, continue
to levy a $112 per-parcel tax with an exemption for seniors, and all
money staying in our community to benefit our local high schools?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE A

The Governing Board of the Acalanes Union High School District has
adopted a resolution proposing a parcel tax (a qualified special tax).
This ballot measure asks voters to decide whether a parcel tax should be
imposed on parcels within the District beginning July 1, 2015.

District voters previously approved the Measure A parcel tax in
2010. The Measure A parcel tax expires on June 30, 2015, according to
the District. If this measure passes, a parcel tax of $112 per year would
be levied on each parcel of taxable real property within the District
beginning July 1, 2015. The measure does not include an expiration
date for the parcel tax.

A parcel of taxable real property is any unit of real property
located in the District that receives a separate property tax bill from the
Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. The parcel tax
would not be levied on parcels that are exempt from paying property
taxes. The measure also states that any person 65 years of age or older
who owns and occupies property may apply to the District to be exempt
from payment of the tax.

The ballot measure states that the proceeds from the parcel tax
will be used to “[f]und advanced courses in math, science, technology,
music and the arts,” “[ajttract and retain highly qualified teachers,”
“[k]eep textbooks and instructional materials up-to-date,” “[mjaintain
manageable class sizes,” “[pjrovide librarians, counselors, and career
training,” “[k]eep technology up-to-date,” and “[t]o the extent funds are
available, to maintain the District’s academic programs, including the
purchase of instructional equipment, materials and supplies.” Proceeds
from the parcel tax may be used only for the specific purposes set forth
in the ballot measure and according to constitutional and statutory
provisions.

State law requires the District’s chief fiscal officer to file an
annual report with the District’s Governing Board that states the amount
of funds received and expended in each year and the status of any
projects required or authorized to be funded with parcel tax proceeds.
State law also requires the proceeds from the parcel tax to be deposited
into a designated account. The measure requires the District’s
Governing Board to establish a Citizens’ Oversight Committee, which
may be the existing Measure A oversight committee, to ensure proceeds
for the parcel tax are spent for the purposes set forth in the ballot
measure.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve
the measure for it to pass.

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax.

A “no” vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE A

Without raising tax rates, Measure A will continue the local funding
necessary to provide advanced core academic programs in math,
science, technology, English, foreign language, and the arts, to prepare
Lafayette, Moraga, Orinda, and Walnut Creek high school students for
college and 21st century careers.

Measure A funds will be spent locally to benefit our high school students.
No funds can be taken away by the State or used for other purposes.

For over 20 years, our communities have generously supported our local
high schools, by approving local revenue measures. Measure A will
continue, without increase, the local funding voters have already
approved to ensure that the quality of teaching and coursework will
remain at the current high level.

Measure A is essential to maintain our outstanding neighborhood
schools. Acalanes Union High School District has consistently been the
top-rated high school district in California. The strong academic
achievement at our schools helps maintain high property values in the
local communities served by Acalanes, Campolindo, Las Lomas and
Miramonte High Schools.

Measure A will provide vital funding to preserve:

•	Advanced programs in math, science and technology

•	The ability to attract and retain highly qualified teachers

•	Funding for art and music programs

•	Up-to-date classroom technology and instructional materials

•	Safe, well-maintained schools

•	Academic support services from librarians and counselors

•	Manageable class sizes

Measure A will continue reliable, stable funding to provide a
comprehensive education to over 5,000 local students each year, without
raising tax rates. All expenditures will be audited and monitored by an
Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee. Senior citizens will be
offered an exemption.

Good schools help maintain the quality of life in our community.

Please continue your support of local schools by voting Yes on
Measure A.

Ed Stokes, Owner, Diablo Foods, 44-year Lafayette resident

Linda Landau, CPA, 2010 Orinda Citizen of the Year

Paul Rosenzweig, Chairman, Audit Committee, Golden Rain Foundation

(Rossmoor)

Kathy Ranstrom, Attorney and Moraga Community Volunteer
Robert Stankus, Business owner, 16-year Walnut Creek resident

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE A

Politicians foolishly squander our tax money on stupid projects,
consultants and overpaid, arrogant administrators, then ask for more.
What the public wants the most, is always on the ballot. It's usually
schools and roads. Then public money is squandered on everything
else, like water tunnels, city council chambers, public art and trains to
nowhere. When will the foolish public wise up?

The senior exemption is a trick to convince people to vote their
neighbors and their own home's future owners, out of their money.

Some seniors won't remember to apply, fill out, or return their
exemption form. They will be gouged without mercy.

Some seniors wanting media glory, file their exemption, then promote
tax increases..

Propagandists use treacherous heirs, heiresses, and the corrupt
media, to promote their cause. The wealthy and huge rental complexes
are charged the same amount as the poorest person in the district.
What's fair about that?

Why don't these treacherous media darlings donate their own money
to the schools and stop begging for donations to promote higher taxes.

If voters ever wise up enough to vote against every tax that appears
on the ballot, the bureaucracies will have to become more efficient. But
no! They keep squandering money.

Propagandists will do everything possible to convince people NOT to
read this free fine print against their tax. They don't want anyone to
actually think. They want everyone to do as they are told.

Politicians never want people to ask questions.

I can't find a news source that will write anything even slightly
detrimental about the politicians or their parcel taxes.

However you vote, it's 100% certain, the politicians and their media
comrades will demand more money from you.

Bruce R. Peterson, Private Citizen

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE A

Politicians control our tax dollar's destiny.

Our taxes support the lazy, corrupt lawyers who gravitated to the
archaic courts and the primeval governments. There's an enormous
staff to protect the overpaid lawyers from the public.

Publicly funded lawyers keep overfilling California's prisons.

This is merely named a school tax. Brainwashed volunteers will
proselytize for a school tax. Not a legislature, court, judge, prosecutor,
prison or unfunded pension liability tax.

The legislature needs to change the tenure laws that reward fossils.
Someone who's teaching at sloth's speed, makes more than an
enthusiastic young teacher. How can that be good for education?

Where's equal pay for equal work?

Classroom lectures should be eliminated. Quality lectures should be
videotaped and shown in the school's underused theaters.

Location and lot size are all important for property values. They
arrived long before schools became a realtor's selling point. Defeating
this tax will not affect your property value, student's test scores or
student's drug abuse. Public housing might affect property values.

This money wasting special election is one month before the primary
election. Will voters sleep through this earlier election? Public schools
never teach the importance of local elections.

Give yourself a pay raise. Vote against Sacramento's legislature
robbing us. Your favorite school's funding is always diverted to
subsidized public housing, bureaucrats and their fabulous pensions.

Let the school's politicians and bureaucrats march to Sacramento for
cost effective reform.

End the consultant and union driven solicitations for higher taxes.

Bruce R. Peterson, Private Citizen

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE A

Measure A is solely for the purpose of ensuring our high school students
are prepared for college and 21st century careers. This is not for any
politician, consultant or administration. It is for our local schools.

For over 20 years, our communities have generously supported our local
high schools by approving local revenue measures. Measure A funds will
be spent locally. NO funds can be taken away by the state or used for
other purposes.

Measure A is essential to maintain our outstanding neighborhood
schools. Acalanes Union High School District has consistently been the
top-rated high school district in California.

Measure A will provide vital funding to preserve:

•	Advanced programs in math, science and technology

•	The ability to attract and retain highly qualified teachers

•	Funding for art and music programs

•	Up-to-date classroom technology	and instructional materials

•	Safe, well-maintained schools

•	Academic support services from librarians and counselors

•	Manageable class sizes.

The strong academic achievement at our schools helps maintain high
property values in the local communities served by Acalanes,
Campolindo, Las Lomas, and Miramonte High Schools.

All expenditures will be audited and monitored by an Independent
Citizens’ Oversight Committee. An exemption is available for senior
home owners

We all benefit from living in one of the best school districts in the State.
Please vote Yes on A.

Rick Cronk, Retired Business Owner, Active Community Leader

Amy Worth, Orinda City Council Member

Leonard Krauss, President, Rossmoor Computer Club

Diana Obrand, Former Moraga Education Foundation President

Tim Schultz, Parent, Past President, Walnut Creek Education

Foundation

FULL TEXT OF
MEASURE A

ACALANES UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SUSTAIN EDUCATIONAL EXCELLENCE ACT OF 2014

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the
“Acalanes Union High School District Sustain Educational Excellence Act
of 2014” or as “Measure A”.

FINDINGS

The Acalanes Union High School District (the “District”),
comprising Acalanes High School, Campolindo High School, Las Lomas
High School, Miramonte High School, and alternate high school
programs, is one of the top-ranked high school districts in the State, and
has been able to offer its students an outstanding educational
opportunity for many years.

Measure A, passed in 2010, expires in 2015, and the
programs supported by Measure A will be at risk unless the District
secures additional funding.

Although the State Budget for 2013-14 and the proposed
state budget for 2014-15 proposes to restore a portion of the funding for
California high schools that was cut or deferred during the fiscal crisis,
the new formula being used to distribute money to California high
schools will not provide enough funding to offset the loss of revenue
caused by Measure A’s expiration.

Extending Measure A will help the District preserve
funding for advanced academic programs, including science,
mathematics, technology, arts, and music; and maintain library hours.

By renewing the District’s current Measure A, local
voters can ensure that our schools will continue to receive a stable,
reliable, local source of funding.

TERMS OF

SUSTAIN EDUCATIONAL EXCELLENCE TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of
those voting on this Proposition, the District shall be authorized to levy a
qualified special tax annually on each parcel of taxable real property in
the District commencing July 1, 2015. The qualified special tax shall be
known and referred to as the “Sustain Educational Excellence Tax.” The
amount of the Sustain Educational Excellence Tax shall be $112.00 per
parcel per year.

The Sustain Educational Excellence Tax shall renew the
existing Measure A tax approved by the voters of the District on May 4,
2010, which expires by its own terms on June 30, 2015.

Proceeds of the Sustain Educational Excellence Tax
shall be authorized to be used to provide financial support to school
programs, as follows:

1.	Fund advanced courses in math, science, technology,
music and the arts;

2.	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers;

3.	Keep textbooks and instructional materials up-to-date;

4.	Maintain manageable class sizes;

5.	Provide librarians, counselors, and career training;

6.	Keep technology up-to-date; and

7.	To the extent funds are available, to maintain the
District’s academic programs, including the purchase of
instructional equipment, materials and supplies.

SENIOR CITIZEN EXEMPTION

In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the
community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age
or older shall be exempt from the Sustain Educational Excellence Tax
upon proper application to the District. The exemption shall be available
pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the District’s Governing
Board or otherwise as required by law or by the Contra Costa County
Tax Collector. Senior citizens with a current valid exemption from
District’s Emergency Education Act, also known as “Measure A,” shall
not be required to reapply for an exemption from the Sustain Educational
Excellence Tax.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The
Governing Board shall establish an independent Citizens’ Oversight
Committee (which may be the existing Measure A oversight committee)
to ensure that proceeds of the Sustain Educational Excellence Tax are
spent wisely and only for the purposes named in this Proposition. The
Governing Board shall provide by resolution for the composition, duties,
funding and other necessary information regarding the Committee’s
formation and operation.

Annual Report. Upon the levy and collection of the
Sustain Educational Excellence Tax, the Governing Board shall cause an
account to be established for the deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to
Government Code Section 50075.1. For so long as any proceeds remain
unexpended, the Superintendent or Associate Superintendent, Business
Services of the District shall cause a report to be filed with the Governing
Board no later than December 31 of each year, commencing December
31, 2016, stating (1) the amount collected and expended in such year,
and (2) the status of any projects or description of any programs funded.
The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine, and may be
incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other
appropriate routine report to the Governing Board.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this
Proposition shall constitute the specific purposes of the Sustain
Educational Excellence Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied
only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Sustain Educational Excellence Tax shall be
collected by the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the
same time and in the same manner and shall be subject to the same
penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax
Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate
for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any
unit of real property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for
ad valorem property taxes from the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax
Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on
which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the Sustain Educational Excellence Tax in such year. In
addition, parcels may be exempt from the education parcel tax as
described above under “SENIOR CITIZEN EXEMPTION”.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels to the
Contra Costa County tax collection officials which the District has
approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption. The Contra Costa County
Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any
parcel from taxation, other than through the Senior Citizen Exemption,
shall be final and binding for the purposes of the Sustain Educational
Excellence Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s
determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a
misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers
seeking a refund of Sustain Educational Excellence Tax paid shall follow
the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the
California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Governing Board hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this Proposition concur, that every section, paragraph,
sentence and clause of this Proposition has independent value, and the
Governing Board and the voters would have adopted each provision
hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
Proposition by the voters, should any part be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by
law.

Late Ballots

Ballots must be in the Contra Costa County Elections Division or a drop off location in the
county no later than 8 p.m. on May 6, 2014.

Vote and Return your ballot early. We suggest that you mail your ballot
by May 2nd , 2014 to ensure it is received in time to be processed.
Ballots can be turned in to any drop off location in Contra Costa County
orthe Elections Division between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. on Election Day.

Contra Costa County Elections Division
555 Escobar St
Martinez, CA 94553
www.cocovote.us
(925) 335-7800
Toll Free #(877) 335-7802

2

Update your voter registration!

Election mail does not automatically follow you when you move or change your mailing
address, you must register by the registration deadline.

When is the deadline to register to vote or update my registration?

The deadline is 15 days before an election. Go to www.cocovote.us to update your info online.

When do I have to update my voter registration information?

Update your voter registration if you:

•	Move to a new address,

•	Change your mailing address,

•	Change your name,

•	Are released from prison and complete parole, or

•	Would like to change your political party.

What if I am homeless?

You can still register to vote. Write the address of a shelter id the cross streets of where you sleep on
your voter registration form. Be sure to add your mailing address if it is different.

Where can I get a voter registration form?

You can register to vote or update your voter registration online at registertovote.ca.gov, or get a
voter registration form at:

•	Any public library,

•	Your County Elections office,

•	Post offices, or

•	Your local DMV office.


