REED UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE B

B MEASURE B: To support excel- yES

lent academic programs and high- _________

quality, 21 st-century education by:

• Retaining highly qualified, experi- ---------

enced teachers.

• Supporting innovative core academic programs
and enhanced science, technology, engineering
and math programs.

• Minimizing class size increases.

• Supporting art, music, and library programs.
Shall Reed Union School District renew its expiring
education parcel tax for eight years, with a one-time
increase of $138, and 3% annual adjustments, with
senior exemptions, no money for administrator salaries,
and funds staying local?

COUNTY COUNSELS IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE B

This Measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of
Trustees of the Reed Union School District of the County
of Marin.

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the Reed
Union School District will be authorized to increase the
existing special tax by One Hundred Thirty-Eight Dollars
($138.00) per assessor’s parcel, beginning July 1,2014, for
a maximum of eight years, with Three Percent (3%) yearly
adjustments. This measure specifies that proceeds of the
tax are to be used for providing continued support for small
classes, instructional programs, curriculum development
and professional training and not for administrative
salaries.

An exemption is created for owners aged Sixty-Five
(65) years and older.

s/STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Vote YES on B to keep Reed schools among the very
best!

We are proud to have top-quality local schools serving
Tiburon, Belvedere and Corte Madera. Our teachers are
the most experienced and effective and our students have
the highest test scores in Marin year after year. Measure B
is critical to maintaining this level of academic excellence.

Since 1990, Reed schools have relied on voter-approved
local funding that sustains challenging academic programs,
keeps great teachers in our classrooms and maintains the
smallest class sizes possible. These funds go directly
to Reed, Bel Aire and Del Mar schools and stay under
our local control. No funds can be taken by the State or
redirected to other school districts. No funds can be used
for administrator salaries, and seniors are eligible for an
exemption.

Without Measure B this local funding is now set to
expire.

Voting YES on B will renew funding to:

•	Retain highly-qualified, experienced teachers

•	Support innovative core academic programs and
enhanced science, technology, engineering and
math programs

•	Minimize class size increases

•	Support art, music and library programs

Measure B requires strict taxpayer protections:

•	No funds can be taken by the State

•	No funds for administrator salaries

•	Mandatory annual audits and reports

•	Seniors are eligible for an exemption

In the last five years alone student enrollment has grown
by 35% - with no new funding to support these hundreds
of new students. Measure B will help minimize class
size increases and ensure that students get the individual
attention that they need.

Whether or not you have school-aged children, protecting
the quality of our local schools is a wise investment. Good
schools protect our property values and our quality of life.

Join parents, teachers, seniors, local business leaders, and
others across our community - Vote YES on B.

s/ALICE FREDERICKS
Mayor, Town of Tiburon
s/BILL SMITH
Local Realtor, Former Mayor, City of Belvedere, Staff
Commodore, SF Yacht Club, RUSD Parent
s/DALE W. HILPERT
Corporate Director
s/DANA LINKER STEELE
President, RUSD Board of Trustees, RUSD Parent and
Alum
s/PATTI STADLIN
Former President, Foundation for Reed Schools, Former
Board Member, Belvedere-Tiburon Library Foundation

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B
WAS SUBMITTED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

Reed Union School District Excellence
in Local Schools Measure
RECITALS

Whereas, the Board of Trustees (“Board”) of the Reed
Union School District is committed to maintaining and
enhancing the excellent education offered in local schools
in order to protect great student achievement and continue
preparing students for future success. Furthermore, the
District aims to enhance local control of our schools in
times of rapidly growing enrollment; and

Whereas, by law, all funds from this local education
parcel tax are required to be used to support the specified
programs in District schools and cannot be taken or
redirected by the State. No funds will be used for
administrator salaries, and annual reports to the public
ensure that funds are spent as promised.

A.	TERMS

To support excellent academic programs and high-quality,
21st-century education by:

•	Retaining highly qualified, experienced teachers

•	Supporting innovative core academic programs
and enhanced science, technology, engineering and
math programs

•	Minimizing class size increases

•	Supporting art, music, and library programs
Shall Reed Union School District renew its expiring
education parcel tax for eight years, with a one-time
increase of $138, and 3% annual adjustments, with senior
exemptions, no money for administrator salaries, and
funds staying local?

Moneys raised under this Measure shall be authorized to
be used only for the following purposes in accordance
with priorities established by the Board and to the extent
of available funds:

•	Maintain high-quality and innovative core
academic programs, including modem instructional
technology for all students

•	Provide enhanced science, technology, engineering
and math programs

•	Attract and retain qualified and experienced
teachers and support staff

•	Minimize class size increases

•	Maintain school library services

•	Maintain enrichment programs such as art, music
and physical education

•	Provide sufficient counselors, nurses and school
support staff to keep pace with student enrollment

No parcel tax funds will be spent on administrative salaries.

The special tax shall be $508 per Parcel of Taxable
Real Property per year beginning on July 1, 2014, and
continuing for a period of eight (8) years. The tax shall be
annually adjusted by 3% per year.

To the extent allowed by law, “Parcel of Taxable Real
Property” shall be defined as: any unit of real property in
the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Marin County Tax Collector
(“County Tax Collector”).

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary to
law, the Board declares and the voters by approving the

RS-2

Measure concur, that every other section and part of this
definition has independent value, and the Board and voters
would have adopted each other section and part hereof
regardless of every other section or part hereof. If this
definition of “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” is deemed
contrary to law, “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall
be defined as any real property in the District assigned an
assessor’s parcel number.

B.	Senior Citizen Exemption from Special Tax

Under procedures adopted by the District, an exemption
from payment of the special tax may be granted on any
parcel to each individual in the District who will attain the
age of 65 years prior to June 1 of the tax year, who owns a
beneficial interest in the parcel and who uses that parcel as
his or her principal place of residence and who applies to
the District on or before June 1 of any year during which the
special tax is in effect (“Senior Citizen Exemption”). The
District shall annually provide to the Marin County Tax
Collector (“County Tax Collector”) or other appropriate
County official any updates to the prior year’s list of
parcels exempt under the Senior Citizen Exemption.

C.	Claim / Exemption Procedures

With respect to all general property tax matters
within its jurisdiction, the County Tax Collector or
other appropriate County tax official shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason,
and that decision shall be final and binding. With respect to
matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including the
Senior Citizen Exemption, the application of the definition
of “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” to any parcel(s) or
any other disputed matter specific to the application of
the special tax, the decisions of the District shall be final
and binding. The procedures described herein, and any
additional procedures established by the Board shall be
the exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking an
exemption. Whether any particular claim is to be resolved
by the District or by the County shall be determined by the
District, in coordination with the County as necessary.

D.	Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution and applicable laws,
the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted
periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this
special tax.

E.	Accountability Measures

1.	Specific Purposes. The proceeds of the special
tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes
identified above.

2.	Annual Reports. The proceeds of the special tax
shall be deposited into an account, which shall be
kept separate and apart from other accounts of the
District, pursuant to the Government Code. No
later than December 31 of each year while the tax
is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with
the Board a report detailing the amount of funds
collected and expended during the prior fiscal
year, and the status of any project authorized to be
funded by this measure. The report may relate to
the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate
annual period, as said officer shall determine, and
may be incorporated into or filed with the annual

budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to
the Board.

F.	Protection of Funding

Current law forbids any decrease in State or federal
funding to the District resulting from the adoption of an
education parcel tax. However, if any such funding is
reduced or affected because of the adoption of this local
funding measure, then the Board may reduce the amount
of the special taxes levied as necessary in order to restore
such State or federal funding and/or maximize the District’s
fiscal position for the benefit of the educational program.
As a result, whether directly or indirectly, no funding from
this measure may be taken away by the State or federal
governments.

G.	Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this
measure has independent value, and the Board and the
voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless
of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part of the measure
or taxing formula be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining
parts of the measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain
in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

BEFORE THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
REED UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. 5-2013/14
RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
THE REED UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT CALLING
A MAILED BALLOT ELECTION, ESTABLISHING
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER,
AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH
OTHER ELECTIONS OCCURRING ON
MAY 6,2014

WHEREAS, the Reed Union School District is proud
to have award winning schools with students who achieve
at a consistently excellent level, and the highest student
test scores in Marin County; and

WHEREAS, the District is committed to protecting
outstanding, rigorous and innovative academic programs;
and

WHEREAS, the District relies on local education
funding to protect top-quality core academics including
science, math, reading and writing, and to attract and retain
experienced and effective teachers; and

WHEREAS, student enrollment has increased
dramatically over recent years, growing by almost 35%
in the last five years alone, and enrollment is projected to
continue to increase; and

WHEREAS, due to state funding formulas this
increased enrollment has not resulted in any increase in
funding for the District; and

WHEREAS, there are no plans by the State to restore
the millions in funding lost over recent years; and

WHEREAS, the District has maximized efforts to
generate funding for educational programs from a variety
of sources, including significant private fundraising efforts
and support from The Foundation for Reed Schools; and
WHEREAS, since 1990 this community has supported
excellence in our schools with locally-controlled education
funding that has been critical to preventing cuts and
maintaining top-quality academic programs; and

WHEREAS, by law, 100% of parcel tax funding
remains under the local control of the District and cannot
be taken or redirected by the State, all expenditures are
subject to annual reports to ensure that funds are spent on
voter-approved purposes, and no money will be used for
administrator salaries; and

WHEREAS, the California Constitution and
Government Code authorize the District, upon approval of
2/3rds of the electorate, to levy qualified special taxes on
property in the District for the purpose of providing quality
educational programs in the District and other lawful
purposes of the District; and

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Board, following
a public hearing and comment, it is advisable to request
that the Marin County Registrar of Voters (“Registrar”)
call a mailed ballot election and submit to the voters of the
District the question whether the District shall renew and
increase a special tax within the District, for the purpose of
raising additional revenue for the District; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Elections Code, a school
district may, by resolution of its governing board, conduct
an election by all mailed ballot in accordance with the laws

governing mailed ballot elections; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Education Code and
Elections Code, such election may be completely or
partially consolidated with any other election held on the
same day and in the same territory or territory that is in part
the same.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DETERMINED AND
ORDERED as follows:

Section 1. Order of Election. This Resolution shall
constitute an order of election pursuant to the Education
Code to the Marin County Superintendent of Schools
(“County Superintendent”) to call an all mailed ballot
election within the boundaries of the District on May 6,
2014.

Section 2. Date and Purpose of Measure. Pursuant
to the California Constitution and Government Code, a
special all mailed ballot election shall be held within the
boundaries of the District on Tuesday, May 6, 2014, for
the purpose of voting on a measure (“Measure”) which
will be presented to voters in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A, containing the question of whether the District
shall impose a special tax for the educational purposes
stated therein. In addition, the full text of the Measure
(“Full Ballot Text”) shall appear in the ballot pamphlet
in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.
The authority for the specifications of this election order
is contained in the Education Code, Elections Code,
Government Code and California Constitution.

Section 3. Senior Citizen Exemption from Special Tax.
Under procedures adopted by the District, an exemption
from payment of the special tax may be granted on any
parcel to each individual in the District who will attain the
age of 65 years prior to June 1 of the tax year, who owns a
beneficial interest in the parcel and who uses that parcel as
his or her principal place of residence and who applies to
the District on or before June 1 of any year during which the
special tax is in effect (“Senior Citizen Exemption”). The
District shall annually provide to the Marin County Tax
Collector (“County Tax Collector”) or other appropriate
County official any updates to the prior year’s list of
parcels exempt under the Senior Citizen Exemption.
Section 4. Collection of the Tax. Beginning July 1,
2014, the special tax shall be collected by the County
Tax Collector, at the same time, in the same manner, and
subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes
collected by the County Tax Collector. Unpaid special
taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for
unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

The special tax shall be levied on every Parcel of Taxable
Real Property in the District. To the extent allowed by law
“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as any
unit of real property in the District that receives a separate
tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the County Tax
Collector’s Office.

If any portion of this definition is deemed contrary
to law, the Board declares and the voters by approving
the Measure concur, that every other section and part of
this definition has independent value, and the Board and
voters would have adopted each other section and part
hereof regardless of every other section or part hereof. If

all sections or parts of this definition are deemed contrary
to law, “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined
as any real property in the District assigned an assessor’s
parcel number.

With respect to all general property tax matters within
its jurisdiction, the County Tax Collector shall make all
final determinations of tax exemption or relief for any
reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With
respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax,
including the Senior Citizen Exemption, the application
of the definition of “Parcel of Taxable Real Property” to
any parcel(s) or any other disputed matter specific to the
application of the special tax, the decisions of the District
shall be final and binding.

Section 5. Authority for Ordering Election. The authority
for ordering the election is contained in the Education
Code, Elections Code, Government Code, and California
Constitution.

Section 6. Authority for Specifications. The authority for
the specification of this election order is contained in the
Education Code.

Section 7. Resolution to County Officials. The Clerk of
the Board is hereby directed to cause certified copies of this
Resolution and order to be delivered not later than February
5, 2014, to the County Superintendent, the Registrar, and
the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of Marin County
(“Board of Supervisors”).

Section 8. Formal Notice. The County Superintendent is
hereby requested to prepare and execute a Formal Notice of
Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in substantially
the form attached hereto as Exhibit C (the “Formal
Notice”), and to call the election by causing the Formal
Notice to be posted in accordance with the applicable law
no later than February 5, 2014, or to otherwise cause the
notice to be published as permitted by law. The Secretary
of the Board, on behalf of and as may be requested by the
County Superintendent, is authorized to cause all notices
required by law in connection herewith to be published and
posted, as the case may be.

Section 9. Conduct of Election.

(a)	Request to Registrar. Pursuant to State law, the
Registrar is requested to take all steps to hold the
election on May 6, 2014, in accordance with law
and these specifications. The election shall be
conducted by means of an all mailed ballot election
pursuant to the Elections Code. The election may
be consolidated with another election as specified
below, if such consolidation is feasible and
appropriate.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar is hereby requested
to reprint the Full Ballot Text in substantially the
form attached hereto as Exhibit B in the voter
information pamphlet to be distributed to voters
pursuant to the Elections Code. In the event the
Full Ballot Text will not be reprinted in the voter
information pamphlet in its entirety, the Registrar
is hereby requested to print, immediately below the
impartial analysis of the Measure, in no less than
10-point boldface type, a legend substantially as

follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure B. If you desire a copy of the Measure,
please call the Marin County Registrar of Voters at
415-473-6456 and a copy will be mailed at no cost
to you. ”

(c)	Consolidation. The County Superintendent and
the Board of Supervisors are hereby requested to
consolidate the election ordered hereby with any
and all other elections as may be held on the same
day in the same territory or in territory that is in part
the same.

(d)	Canvass and Declaration of Results. The Board of
Supervisors is authorized to canvass the returns of
the election and declare the result pursuant to the
Elections Code.

(e)	Cost of Election. The District will reimburse the
Registrar and the County for costs associated with
the election as required by law.

Section 10. Appropriations Limit. The Board shall
provide in each year for an increase in the District’s
appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that the
proceeds of the special tax may be spent for its authorized
purposes.

Section 11. Ballot Arguments. The President of the Board
and/or her designees are hereby authorized to prepare and
file with the Registrar any ballot argument prepared in
connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument,
each within the time established by the Registrar, which
shall be considered the official ballot arguments of the
Board as sponsor of the Measure.

Section 12. Official Actions. The District Superintendent,
President of the Board, or their designees are hereby
authorized to execute any other document and to perform all
acts necessary to place the Measure on the ballot, including
making alterations to the Measure and Full Ballot Text
stated in Exhibits A and B hereto, and to this Resolution
to comply with requirements of law and election officials
or which are, in the judgment of the Superintendent, in the
best interests of the District.

Section 13. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take
effect from and after its adoption.

ADOPTED, SIGNED and APPROVED by the Board of
Trustees of the Reed Union School District on the 21st day
of January, 2014, by the following vote:

AYES: Brady, Block, O’Neill, Lambe Peitz, Linker Steele
NOES: None
ABSTENTIONS: None

s/DANA LINKER STEELE
President of the Board of Trustees of the
Reed Union School District