VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF CAPITOLA

M Shall the City of Capitola adopt an ordinance amending
Section 3.32.030 of the Municipal Code raising the
transient occupancy tax rate from 10% to 11%?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE M

ORDINANCE NO._

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
CAPITOLA

AMENDING SECTION 3.32.030 OF THE CAPITOLA MUNICIPAL
CODE PERTAINING TO THE CITY OF CAPITOLA VISITOR
SERVICES FEE (TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX)

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF CAPITOLA, CALIFORNIA, DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

WHEREAS, it is the purpose of this Ordinance to amend the City of Capitola
Municipal Code Section 3.32.030 entitled Fee/Tax Imposed, to increase the Visitor
Services Fee (Transient Occupancy Tax) from 10% to 11%; and

WHEREAS, this Ordinance shall be known as the City of Capitola Visitor Services
Fee (Transient Occupancy Tax) Increase. The City of Capitola hereinafter shall be
called “City”. This Ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the
City.

WHEREAS, this Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF CAPITOLA AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Section 3.32.030 is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Section 3.32.030”

FEE/TAX IMPOSED

Section 3.32.030 Fee/tax imposed.

A. For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall
pay a general tax in an amount of eleven percent of the rent charged by the
operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city which is
extinguished only by payment by the operator to the city. The transient shall pay
the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in
installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment.
The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the
hotel. If for any reason the tax is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the fee
administrator may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the fee
administrator. The general tax revenues shall be placed in the city’s general fund.

SECTION 2. It is the purpose of this Ordinance to amend the City of Capitola
Municipal Code Section 3.32.030 of the Chapter entitled Fee/Tax Imposed, to
increase the Visitor Services Fee (Transient Occupancy Tax) from 10% to 11%;
and

SECTION 3. This Ordinance shall be considered as adopted upon the date that the
vote is declared by the City Council, and shall go into effect on January 15,2015.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE M

This ballot measure, if adopted by City voters, would amend the Capitola Municipal
Code by raising the transient occupancy tax rate from the current rate of 10 percent
to 11 percent. The transient occupancy tax, also referred to as the “Visitor Service
Fee” in the Capitola Municipal Code, is a tax paid by hotel and motel guests who
spend fewer than 30 consecutive days in a hotel or motel in the City. The tax is on
the room rent paid. For example, a hotel guest currently pays $10.00 tax per night
on a $100.00 hotel room. If the ballot measure is adopted, the hotel guest would
pay $11.00 tax per night on a $100.00 hotel room. All of the City’s transient
occupancy tax revenue is deposited into the City’s General Fund and used by the
City for the provision of municipal services to City residents and visitors and for the
construction and maintenance of capital improvements within the City. Because
the proposed transient occupancy tax rate increase would be imposed for general
municipal governmental purposes, the ballot measure proposes a “general tax” as
defined by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution. Accordingly, for the ballot
measure to be adopted, it must receive a simple majority “yes” vote.

This ballot measure has been placed on the ballot by the Capitola City Council.

s/John G. Barisone
City Attorney

44-516

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M  The City of Capitola welcomes hundreds of thousands of tourists annually to its Village, beaches, parks, and other visitor-serving amenities. As a beach community endowed with the scenic beauty of Monterey Bay and a desirable year-around climate, Capitola embraces its identity as a vacation destination and continually invests its limited resources to improve and maintain visitor-serving attractions.  Nearly every city and county in California imposes a Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) paid by hotel guests to help support the services that make their visits enjoyable and memorable. As a popular seaside destination, tourism places an especially heavy burden on Capitola’s infrastructure and services, including police, parking facilities, parks, and maintenance of our beach, wharf, sidewalks, and streets.  A YES vote on Measure M would increase the TOT from 10% to 11% to provide needed revenue for Capitola to continue to provide high quality services to its visitors while balancing competing priorities for public safety, infrastructure imorovements. Darks and recreation, and community services - without raisinq taxes on Capitola residents.  A YES vote on Measure M would align Capitola’s TOT with its immediate neighbors - the City of Santa Cruz and the County of Santa Cruz, which both charge an 11% TOT.  The modest 1% TOT increase would add less than $2 to the average daily hotel bill, while providing approximately $125,000 of additional annual revenue.  Capitola is an extraordinary place to live and visit. A YES vote on this measure will help Capitola maintain its high quality of life for residents while also providing first class visitor-serving amenities and attractions.  si Christine McBroom City Treasurer  s/ Mike Termini City Council Member  si Dennis Norton City Council Member	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M MEASURE M: It’s BAD for both Families & Locals  •	Capitola’s Tourists are often Families trying to stretch their limited budget dollars. These folks are not business travelers with huge expense accounts to spend.  •	Vacationing Families don’t only spend their money at motels, hotels and vacation rentals. These same families frequent our local restaurants, retail stores, cultural events and recreational activities. Higher New Taxes = Less Local Spending!  •	Less Visitor Spending results in Less Pay & Less Jobs for Locals. Declining spending in the City of Capitola means Less Money for essential City Services.  No More New Taxes until Promises are Kept  •	Voters were told (only 2-years ago) that a permanent & large Sales Tax Increase would take care of fixing our local roads and replenishing the reserves. Promises need to be kept.  •	The City is just acting greedy! Lodging Tax revenue was up more than 64% over two years. Sales Tax revenues are up more than $1,000,000 in one year alone! Yet, three Councilmembers want more Taxes just for their General Fund with no specific project on how it would be spent!  •	The City of Capitola already charges a 10% Tax. That’s High Enough!  Raising our Tax would make us less competitive with nearby comparable Cities: Monterey, Pacific Grove, Carmel, Santa Clara, San Jose, Scotts Valley and Watsonville all charge 10% or lower. Only Santa Cruz is higher.  Does Capitola really want to run its City like Santa Cruz?  Please	VOTE NO on MEASURE M  Thank you.  si Carin Hanna Capitola Business Owner Former Vice Mayor  si Gary Wetsel Capitola Property and Business Owner Paradise Beach Grille  si Sira Taylor Local Realtor  Candidate, Capitola and Soquel School Board  si Joe Clarke Sheriffs Sergeant Candidate for Capitola City Council  si Bob Thomas Capitola Business Owner Chairman, Senior Alliance Non-Profit

44-517

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M
VOTE NO on MEASURE M

No More New Taxes. No More Broken Promises.

City of Capitola residents and visitors are rapidly becoming among the most highly
taxed in the State of California. Hardly an election has passed in recent memory
without being asked to pay another new Tax.

Capitola City Council Member Stephanie Harlan agrees:

“Give voters a rest. We can’t make a compelling argument to the
voters now about the need.”

In the prior General Election, Capitola voters narrowly passed Measure 0: The
City’s permanent & largest Sales Tax increase. Promises were made about the
specific need for better roads and increased reserves. Yet appointed City
Bureaucrats are now asking for more Tax Monies for inadequate reserves! Has
there been time? How about first fixing-up all of those promised road
improvements?

VOTE NO on MEASURE M

No Consensus. No Special Purpose. No ‘Sunset’ Date.

Measure M is a permanent 10% Tax increase and split the City Council 3-2, with
even Mayor Storey opposing it. The three members who voted for it couldn’t agree
how it should be spent. All we do know is that it would go into the General Fund
from where salaries are paid. No wonder voters say, “This is just pure greed and
notan important need.”

VOTE NO on MEASURE M

Let’s Keep Capitola Family Friendly!

Measure would affect far more than tourists. Capitola is a value-oriented family
destination. Raising the cost to stay here will affect the enjoyment of visiting
families by taking away money they could spend on activities and enjoyment. This
proposed 10% tax increase also would hurt many local businesses and the local
employees where these visitors stay, dine and shop.

Let’s keep Capitola a fantastic place to live, work & visit for everyone.
Please VOTE NO on Measure M. Thank you.

si Ted Burke
Co-owner, Shadowbrook Restaurant

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

Make no mistake: Capitola has many unfunded needs which can benefit from
Measure M revenue. Voters graciously approved Measure 0 which enabled
Capitola to replenish its reserves and repair its roads and sidewalks. Capitola has
delivered on its promises - but there’s more work to do!

The Wharf needs significant investment and improvements. The jetties which
retain Capitola’s beaches are in disrepair. Improvements and expansion of
Capitola’s parking supply are needed to accommodate hundreds of thousands of
annual visitors. Additional park space and recreational amenities are needed to
improve residents’ quality of life and the visitor experience. Measure M revenue will
accelerate the City’s efforts to fulfill these critical needs.

DON’T BELIEVE THE HYPERBOLE OFFERED BY OPPONENTS!

Measure M was placed on the ballot following an advertised public hearing by your
elected officials. There were no closed door deals made by unelected bureaucrats.
Measure M would not fund increased staff salaries.

Opponents want you to believe a $2/day increase in hotel rates would drive visitors
away from Capitola, but offer no evidence to support this illogical claim. To the
contrary, Measure M would help Capitola continue to provide facilities and services
necessary to maintain its standing as a premier beach destination.

In 2012, the City and County of Santa Cruz both proposed measures to increase
their TOT to 11%. OPPONENTS OF MEASURE M DID NOT OPPOSE THESE
IDENTICAL MEASURES.

A YES vote on Measure M is an easy choice. It provides much needed revenue -
WITHOUT INCREASING TAXES ON CAPITOLA RESIDENTS.

si Christine McBroom
City Treasurer

si Mike Termini
City Council Member

si Dennis Norton
City Council Member

si Glenn Hanna
Former Capitola City Treasurer

si Dan Aspromonte
Co-owner in Capitola of the Fairfield Inn and Best Western

si John Galli
Former Capitola Business Owner
Retired Police Officer

si John David Dufresne
Retired County Health Inspector
42 year Capitola Resident

Santa Cruz County

44-518

Measure M

Proposal to Raise Transit Occupancy Tax
City of Capitola

Ordinance - Majority Approval Required

Ballot Question:

Shall the City of Capitola adopt an ordinance amending Section 3.32.030 of the
Municipal Code raising the transient occupancy tax rate from 10% to 11%

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

This ballot measure, if adopted by City voters, would amend the Capitola Municipal
Code by raising the transient occupancy tax rate from the current rate of 10 percent to
11 percent. The transient occupancy tax, also referred to as the "Visitor Service Fee" in
the Capitola Municipal Code, is a tax paid by hotel and motel guests who spend fewer
than 30 consecutive days in a hotel or motel in the City. The tax is on the room rent paid.
For example, a hotel guest currently pays $10.00 tax per night on a $100.00 hotel room.
If the ballot measure is adopted, the hotel guest would pay $11.00 tax per night on a
$100.00 hotel room. All of the City's transient occupancy tax revenue is deposited into
the City's General Fund and used by the City for the provision of municipal services to
City residents and visitors and for the construction and maintenance of capital
improvements within the City. Because the proposed transient occupancy tax rate
increase would be imposed for general municipal governmental purposes, the ballot
measure proposes a "general tax" as defined by Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution. Accordingly, for the ballot measure to be adopted, it must receive a simple
majority "yes" vote.

This ballot measure has been placed on the ballot by the Capitola City Council,
s/ John G. Barisone City Attorney

Arguments For Measure M

The City of Capitola welcomes hundreds of thousands of tourists annually to
its Village, beaches, parks, and other visitor-serving amenities. As a beach
community endowed with the scenic beauty of Monterey Bay and a desirable
year-around climate, Capitola embraces its identity as a vacation destination
and continually invests its limited resources to improve and maintain visitor-
serving attractions.

Nearly every city and county in California imposes a Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT)
paid by hotel guests to help support the services that make their visits enjoyable and
memorable. As a popular seaside destination, tourism places an especially heavy

burden on Capitola's infrastructure and services, including police, parking facilities,
parks, and maintenance of our beach, wharf, sidewalks, and streets.

A YES vote on Measure M would increase the TOT from 10% to 11% to provide needed
revenue for Capitola to continue to provide high quality services to its visitors while
balancing competing priorities for public safety, infrastructure improvements, parks
and recreation, and community services + without raising taxes on Capitola residents.

A YES vote on Measure M would align Capitola's TOT with its immediate neighbors - the
City of Santa Cruz and the County of Santa Cruz, which both charge an 11% TOT.

The modest 1% TOT increase would add less than $2 to the average daily hotel bill,
while providing approximately $125,000 of additional annual revenue.

Capitola is an extraordinary place to live and visit. A YES vote on this measure will help
Capitola maintain its high quality of life for residents while also providing first class
visitor-serving amenities and attractions.

s/ Christine McBroom City Treasurer
s/ Mike Termini City Council Member
s/ Dennis Norton City Council Member

Rebuttal to Arguments For

MEASURE M: It's BAD for both Families & Locals

•	Capitola's Tourists are often Families trying to stretch their limited budget
dollars. These folks are not business travelers with huge expense accounts to
spend.

•	Vacationing Families don't only spend their money at motels, hotels and vacation
rentals. These same families frequent our local restaurants, retail stores, cultural
events and recreational activities. Higher New Taxes = Less Local Spending!

•	Less Visitor Spending results in Less Pay & Less Jobs for Locals. Declining
spending in the City of Capitola means Less Money for essential City Services.

No More New Taxes until Promises are Kept

•	Voters were told (only 2-years ago] that a permanent & large Sales Tax Increase
would take care of fixing our local roads and replenishing the reserves. Promises
need to be kept.

•	The City is just acting greedy! Lodging Tax revenue was up more than 64%
over two years. Sales Tax revenues are up more than $1,000,000 in one year
alone! Yet, three Councilmembers want more Taxes just for their General Fund
with no specific project on how it would be spent!

•	The City of Capitola already charges a 10% Tax. That's High Enough! Raising
our Tax would make us less competitive with nearby comparable Cities:
Monterey, Pacific Grove, Carmel, Santa Clara, San Jose, Scotts Valley and
Watsonville all charge 10% or lower. Only Santa Cruz is higher.

Does Capitola really want to run its City like Santa Cruz?

Please.VOTE NO on MEASURE M

Thank vou.

s/ Carin Hanna
Capitola Business Owner
Former Vice Mayor
s/ Gary Wetsel

Capitola Property and Business Owner
Paradise Beach Grille
s/ Sira Taylor
Local Realtor

Candidate, Capitola and Soquel School Board

s/ Joe Clarke

Sheriff s Sergeant

Candidate for Capitola City Council

s/ Bob Thomas

Capitola Business Owner

Chairman, Senior Alliance Non-Profit

Arguments Against Measure M

VOTE NO on MEASURE M

No More New Taxes.	Nq More Broken Promises.

City of Capitola residents and visitors are rapidly becoming among the most highly
taxed in the State of California. Hardly an election has passed in recent memory without
being asked to pay another new Tax.

Capitola City Council Member Stephanie Harlan agrees: "Give voters a rest. We can't
make a compelling argument to the voters now about the need.

In the prior General Election, Capitola voters narrowly passed Measure 0: The City's
permanent & largest Sales Tax increase. Promises were made about the specific need
for better roads and increased reserves. Yet appointed City Bureaucrats are now asking
for more Tax Monies for inadequate reserves! Has there been time? How about first
fixing-up all of those promised road improvements?

VOTE NO on MEASURE M

No Consensus. No Special Purpose! No Sunset Date.

Measure M is a permanent 10% Tax increase and split the City Council 3-2, with even
Mayor Storey opposing it. The three members who voted for it couldn't agree how it
should be spent. All we do know is that it would go into the General Fund from where

salaries are paid. No wonder voters say, "This is just pure greed and not an important
need."

VOTE NO on MEASURE M

Let's Keep Capitola Family Friendly!

Measure would affect far more than tourists. Capitola is a value-oriented family
destination. Raising the cost to stay here will affect the enjoyment of visiting families by
taking away money they could spend on activities and enjoyment. This proposed 10%
tax increase also would hurt many local businesses and the local employees where
these visitors stay, dine and shop.

Let's keep Capitola a fantastic place to live, work & visit for everyone.

Please VOTE NO on Measure M. Thank you.

s/ Ted Burke

Co-owner, Shadowbrook Restaurant
s/ Glenn Hanna

Former Capitola City Treasurer
s/ Dan Aspromonte

Co-owner in Capitola of the Fairfield Inn and Best Western
s/ John Galli

Former Capitola Business Owner
Retired Police Officer
s/ John David Dufresne
Retired County Health Inspector
42 year Capitola Resident

Rebuttal to Arguments Against

Make no mistake: Capitola has many unfunded needs which can benefit from Measure M
revenue. Voters graciously approved Measure 0 which enabled Capitola to replenish its
reserves and repair its roads and sidewalks. Capitola has delivered on its promises +
but there's more work to do!

The Wharf needs significant investment and improvements. The jetties which retain
Capitola's beaches are in disrepair. Improvements and expansion of Capitola's parking
supply are needed to accommodate hundreds of thousands of annual visitors.

Additional park space and recreational amenities are needed to improve residents'
quality of life and the visitor experience. Measure M revenue will accelerate the City's
efforts to fulfill these critical needs.

DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPERBOLE OFFERED BY OPPONENTS!

Measure M was placed on the ballot following an advertised public hearing by your
elected officials. There were no closed door deals made by unelected
bureaucrats. Measure M would not fund increased staff salaries.

Opponents want you to believe a $2/day increase in hotel rates would drive visitors
away from Capitola, but offer no evidence to support this illogical claim. To the contrary,
Measure M would help Capitola continue to provide facilities and services necessary to
maintain its standing as a premier beach destination.

In 2012, the City and County of Santa Cruz both proposed measures to increase their
TOT to 11%. OPPONENTS OF MEASURE M DID NOT OPPOSE THESE IDENTICAL
MEASURES.

A YES vote on Measure M is an easy choice. It provides much needed revenue
+ WITHOUT INCREASING TAXES ON CAPITOLA RESIDENTS.

s/ Christine McBroom
City Treasurer
s/ Mike Termini
City Council Member
s/ Dennis Norton
City Council Member