Resolution / -Ordinance Number:

85110

City Council Meeting Date
Agenda Item No .

Recorded Vote

Reason for Missing Legislation:

D Draft submitted in agenda packet, original never received
Council amended legislation at ike meeting

Responsible Contact Information:

Department
Contact Person/Ext.

- JUL 15 2014	___

---------^-------------—	A'

n ) I MK\a*r\

Notes (if any)

SfFiCE OF THE CITY 61.ERR

PROPOSED RESOLUTION WITH PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE RECOMMENDED
CHANGES

LO

INTRODUCED BY COUNCILMEMBER GIBSON MCELHANEY, GALLO, KERNIGHAN, REID

<

OAKLAND CITY COUNCIL

RESOLUTION NO.______C	M	S.

RESOLUTION ON THE CITY COUNCIL'S OWN MOTION SUBMITTING TO THE
NOVEMBER 4,	2014	STATEWIDE	GENERAL	ELECTION,	A	PROPOSED

ORDINANCE TO MAINTAIN THE CURRENT SPECIAL PARCEL TAX AND THE
PARKING TAX SURCHARGE FOR POLICE SERVICES AND VIOLENCE
PREVENTION STRATEGIES, TO ADDRESS VIOLENT CRIME AND TO IMPROVE
PUBLIC SAFETY IN THE CITY OF OAKLAND; AND DIRECTING THE CITY CLERK
TO FIX THE DATE FOR SUBMISSION OF ARGUMENTS AND PROVIDE FOR
NOTICE AND PUBLICATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE NOVEMBER 4, 2014
STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION

WHEREAS, the City of Oakland has established public safety as one of its highest
priorities and has determined that safety is essential for a thriving economy, healthy
community and quality of life for all Oakland residents; and,

WHEREAS, the City of Oakland, like many other urban cities, continues to experience
budget constraints due to impacts from the global, national, state, and regional
recession causing Oakland to fund basic police and fire services at levels below those
of similar-sized cities throughout the country; and,

WHEREAS, maintaining a well-equipped and appropriately staffed fire department is a
necessary component to public safety including the critical paramedic services and
other first responder needs related to acts of violence; and,

WHEREAS, investing in a coordinated system of early intervention, community policing
and violence-prevention efforts before injury occurs will reduce economic and
emotional costs and will be a fiscally responsible use of taxpayer dollars; and,

WHEREAS, in 2004 voters approved funding to augment basic police and fire services
and funded violence prevention and intervention programs in a coordinated effort, now
commonly known as “Oakland Unite” that invests in strategic violence prevention and
intervention work that has been demonstrated to reduce recidivism, retaliatory violence
and interrupt the cycle of violence by focusing efforts on the individuals who are likely
to cause or be victims of violence; and

WHEREAS, findings from the California Legislative Analyst’s Office reveal that
investment in prevention and intervention strategies like those funded by Oakland
Unite is fiscally responsible because it costs less than the average annual cost of

12

MEETING OF THE
OAKLAND CITY COUNCIL
JULY 15, 2014

incarceration and has demonstrated improved safety without increasing incarceration;
and,

WHEREAS, the Oakland City Council determines it is in the best interests of the
City of Oakland to submit to the voters this proposed ordinance to retain the existing
tax structure approved by voters in 2004 to sustain funding for these critical efforts to
address violent crime through targeted prevention, intervention and policing strategies,
and improve emergency response; now therefore be it

RESOLVED: That the Oakland City Council finds and determines the forgoing
recitals are true and correct and hereby adopts and incorporates them into this
Resolution; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the Oakland City Council does hereby submit to the
voters, at the November 4, 2014, Statewide General Election, an Ordinance which reads
as follows:

PARTI. GENERAL

Section 1. TITLE AND PURPOSE.

(A)	Title. This Ordinance may be cited as the “The 2014 Oakland Public Safety
and Services Violence Prevention Act.”

(B)	Purpose. The taxes imposed under this Ordinance are solely for the
purpose of raising revenue necessary to maintain police and fire services and violence
prevention and intervention strategies, to address violent crime and to improve public
safety in the City of Oakland.

The parcel tax imposed in Part 2 is an excise tax on the privilege of using and use of
municipal services. Such municipal services increase and provide greater benefit to
Owners of Parcels when programs to prevent violence and crime in the City are enhanced.
Because the proceeds of the tax will be deposited in a special fund restricted for the
services and programs specified herein, the tax is a special tax.

Section 2. FINDINGS.

(A)	This Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act,
Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq., as it can be seen with certainty that there
is no possibility that the activity authorized herein may have a significant effect on the
environment.

Section 3. USE OF PROCEEDS.

(A)	Objectives. The tax proceeds raised by these special taxes may be used only to
pay for any costs or expenses relating to or arising from efforts to achieve the following
objectives and desired outcomes:

1.	Reduce homicides, robberies, burglaries, and gun-related violence;

2

2.	Improve police and fire emergency 911 response times and other police
services; and,

3.	Invest in violence intervention and prevention strategies that provide support
for at-risk youth and young adults to interrupt the cycle of violence and
recidivism.

(B)	Allocation. To achieve the objectives stated herein, three percent (3%) of
the total funds collected shall be set aside annually for audit and evaluation of the
programs, strategies and services funded by this measure, and to support the work of the
Commission established herein. Of the remaining ninety-seven percent (97%), the
Oakland Fire Department shall be allocated special tax revenue in the amount of
$2,000,000 annually. The tax funds remaining shall be allocated as follows: sixty percent
(60%) for purposes described in subsections C(1) and forty percent (40%) for purposes
described in subsection C(3) of this section.

(C)	Uses. Taxes collected pursuant to the special taxes imposed herein shall be
used only in connection with programs and services that further the objectives set forth in
Section 3(A), such as the following:

1.	Geographic Policing: hire, deploy and maintain police officers
assigned to specific geographic areas or neighborhoods, performing duties
such as:

(a)	Crime Reduction Teams (CRT): strategically geographically
deployed officers to investigate and respond to illegal narcotic transactions
and commission of violent crimes in identified violence hot spots;

(b)	Community Policing Policing----------Resource Officers

(CRPOs):these officers would engage in problem solving projects, attend
Neighborhood Crime Prevention Council meetings, serve as a liaison with
city services teams, provide foot/bike patrol, answer calls for service if
needed, lead targeted enforcement projects and coordinate these projects
with CRT’s, Patrol units and other officers;

(c)	Conduct violence suppression operations such as buy busts,
surveillance, undercover operations, high visibility patrol, probation/ parole
compliance checks, search warrants, assist Community Policing Policing
ResourceOffiGersResource Officers (previous—formertvPrebtemformerlv
Problem Solving Officer program) projects, violent crime investigation
assistance crimes, general follow up;

(d)	Domestic violence and child abuse intervention: additional
officers to team with social service providers to intervene in situations of
domestic violence and child abuse, including sexual exploitation of children.

3

(e)	Sustaining and strengthening of the City’s Operation
Ceasefire program, including project management and crime analysis
positions.

2.	Maintenance of Efforts worn Police Personnel: The intent of the
augmented funding is to maintain sufficient resources to allow for the
implementation of comprehensive policing within the City’s limited
resources and to begin the process of restoring the sworn staffing of the
Oakland Police Department to a number of crime reduction teams,
community resource officers and other sworn police personnel appropriate
to meet the Oakland Police Department’s stated mission of providing the
people of Oakland an environment where they can live, work, play and
thrive free from crime and the fear of crime. To ensure the Department’s
progress toward this mission, the following shall apply::-Fon€te-allocated
by this—measure—wtfl—support—a—minimum—©f—50—sworn—police
personnelpositions above- the FY 2014-15 General—Purpose Fund
budgeted positions.If the City does not maintain that budgeted level of
positions, such as in the event of a major natural disaster or significant
economic recession, the City will within 60 days provide a-f-eport to the
publio with justifications and a plan of action to return-to-said tevel.

(a)	Upon passage of this measure, the City shall maintain a
budgeted level of no fewer than seven hundred(700) sworn police
personnel (including those sworn police personnel funded by this
Ordinance) at all times, and shall hire and maintain no fewer than 700
sworn police personnel as early as practicable after the passage of this
Ordinance and at all times after July 1. 2016.

(b)	Each fiscal year, before the City adopts its two year policy
budget or its mid-cvcle budget adjustments, the City Administration shall
submit to the City Council, and the City Council will adopt, a sworn police
personnel hiring plan (“the hiring plan”) demonstrating how the City will
achieve and /or maintain the strength of force reguired bv this ordinance.
The hiring plan will make use of assumptions that department attrition
rates, recruiting success, academy yield and other relevant factors
affecting the growth or shrinkage of the department will be comparable to
the past two to four years’ experience.

______(c) The City shall be prohibited from collecting the taxes

provided for in this Ordinance at anv time that it has failed to budget for a
minimum of 700 sworn police personnel, and at any time after July 1.
2016. that it has failed to hire and maintain a minimum of 700 sworn police
personnel, with the exceptions listed below. If the City fails to budget the
reguisite number, the prohibition will apply to the fiscal year of that budget.
If the City fails to meet the maintenance number, the prohibition will apply
to the fiscal year following 90 days from this determination. The City has
90 days to declare anv of the following exceptions exemptions:

1422654v2

i If grant funding or other non-General Purpose Fund funding
budgeted for sworn police personnel in FY 2014-2015 budget
becomes unavailable after that fiscal year, the numeric
requirements for budgeting and maintaining sworn police
personnel shall be reduced bv the number of sworn police
personnel previously funded bv such lost revenue source. This
exception shall apply only if the City Administration submits a
report to the City Council explaining the unavailability of the
non-General Purpose Fund revenue, the steps that were taken
bv the City to try to replace such funding and the steps the City
will take in the future to replace such funding. In addition, for
this exception to apply, the City Council must adopt a resolution
stating that grant funding is no longer available and no General
Purpose Fund revenue can be used to replace the non-General
Purpose Fund revenue for sworn police personnel without
causing more harm to the City’s residents and businesses than
will be caused bv a reduction in sworn police personnel. Such
actions must be taken for each fiscal year in which the City fails
to meet the minimum staffing requirements of this ordinance for
the reasons described in this sub-section.

ii.	If a severe and unanticipated financial or other event occurs
that so adversely impacts the General Purpose Fund as to
prevent the City from budgeting for, hiring and maintaining the
minimum number of sworn police personnel required bv this
Ordinance, the numeric requirements for budgeting and
maintaining sworn police personnel shall be reduced bv the
numbers the City is unable to fund as a result of such event.
This exception shall apply only if the City Administration
submits a report to City Council explaining the severe and
unanticipated event, the steps that were taken bv the City to
avoid the need to reduce the number of sworn police personnel
and the steps that will be taken bv the City in the future to
restore sworn police personnel. In addition, for this exception to
apply, the City Council must adopt a resolution that includes
findings of fact that it is necessary to reduce the number of
budgeted and hired sworn police personnel to a specific
number in order to avoid causing more harm to the City’s
residents and businesses than will be caused bv a reduction in
sworn police personnel. Such actions must be taken for each
fiscal year in which the City fails to meet the minimum staffing
requirements of this ordinance for the reasons described in this
sub-section.

iii.	If the number of sworn police personnel required bv this

ordinance unexpectedly falls below the level required despite
the City’s adoption of and implementation of the hiring plan, the
numeric requirements for budgeting and maintaining sworn

1422654V2

police personnel shall be reduced bv the shortfall. This
exception shall apply only if the City Administration reports to
the City Council concerning the reasons for the shortfall, the
steps that should be taken to restore the sworn police
personnel level, and the time frame for doing so. and-lf
appropriate, the City Council will adopt resolution a measures
including a modifying the hiring led plan, if appropriate, te
restore 6worn personnel to the reguired level. This exception
will not apply in consecutive fiscal years.

3.	Community-focused Violence Prevention and Intervention Services
and Strategies: Invest in and engage the community in collaborative and
data-driven violence reduction strategies directed at those at highest risk of
violence; strategies such as:

(a)	Street outreach and case management to youth and young
adults at high-risk of involvement in violence in order to connect individuals
in need of employment, mental health, or educational services to needed
programs;

(b)	Crisis response, advocacy and case management for victims
of crime (including domestic violence victims, commercially sexually
exploited children, and victims of shootings and homicides) with a strategic
focus on reducing likelihood of being re-victimized.

(c)	Reentry programs for youth and young adults, including case
management, school support, job training and placement in order to reduce
recidivism rates and improve educational and employment outcomes.

(d)	Coordination of public systems (including law enforcement)
and community-based social services through sharing of resources, joint
trainings and multidi6oiplinarv case reviewsa joint focus on youth and young
adults at highest risk of violence as guided bv data analysis.

4.	Fire Services: Provide fire services such as:

(a)	Maintain staffing to ensure adequate personnel resources to
respond to medical and fire emergencies; and,

(b)	Provide for medical responses to homicides and gun-related
violence

Section 4. PLANNING. ACCOUNTABILITY AND EVALUATION

To ensure the proper revenue collection, spending, and implementation of the programs
mandated by this ordinance, the City shall impose the following requirements:

6

(A)	Commission: Adoption of this Ordinance shall establish a “Public Safety and
Services Violence Prevention" Commission.

1.	Qualifications:	The	Commission’s membership must be comprised of

individuals with expertise experienceas. either, an employer, service
provider or beneficiary in community policing, violence prevention, reentry
services, advocacy, faith-based organizations serving the target population,
or workforce—development,—accounting,—finance;—business—or—public
administration, or a related field-inexperience in criminal justice, public
health, social services, research andevaluationand evaluation, finance,
audits, and/or public policy.

TtZ_______Conflicts of Interest: Each Commission member shall certify that

the member and the member’s immediate family members, business
associates and employers have no financial interest in any program,
project, organization, agency or other entity that is seeking or will seek
funding approval under this ordinance. Financial interest includes, without
limitation, salaries, consultant fees, program fees, commissions, gifts.
gratuities, favors, sales income, rental payments, investment income or
other business income. A Commission member shall immediately notify
the City Administration and the Chair of the Commission of any real or
possible conflict of interest between membership on the Commission and
work or other involvement with entities funded bv the Taxes provided for in
this Ordinance. Any dispute about whether a conflict of interest exists
shall be resolved bv the Public Ethics Commission.

2r3.______Composition: The Commission shall consist of nine (9) members.

The Mayor and each councilmember shall recommend one member of the
Commission each. All commissioners shall be appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by the City Council in accordance with City Charter Section 601.

If feasible. At least three At least two(32) members wjllmust have
difeetexperience—either	working	with—the—target—populationwith

servicerecipient eligible TPOPulations.at least one two(24)members should
will reflect the tareetservice recipienteliaible population^ and at Iea6t two
one(2) members will have with-a professional law enforcement or criminal
justice background. Other members will meet the criteria as established in
subsection 1 above.

3-4.______&-----Meetings of the Commission: The Commission shall conduct

reoularmeetinosregular meetings and such special meetings as it deems
necessary.

4r5._____Joint Meetings of the Commission and City Council:	The	City

Council, the Commission and other public safety-related boards and

1422654V2

7

commissions shall conduct an annual joint special public informational
meeting devoted to the subject of public safety. At each such meeting, the
public. Commission and City Council will hear reports from representatives
of all departments and the Chief of Police concerning progress of all of the
City’s efforts to reduce violent crime.

fMS,______Duties of the Commission:	The Commission shall perform the

following duties:

(a)	Evaluate, inquire, and review the administration, coordination, and
evaluation of the prooramsstrateoies and practices mandated in
this resolution.

(b)	Make recommendations to the City Administration and, as
appropriate, the independent evaluator on regardinqtfrereoardino
the scope of the annual program performance evaluation.
Wherever possible, the scope shall relate directly to the efficacy of
strategies to achieve desired outcomes.

(c)	and—rReceive draft performance review6toreviews to provide
feedback before the evaluator finalizes the report.

(d)	Report issues identified in the annual fiscal audit to the Mayor and
City Council.

(e)	Review the annual fiscal and performance audits and evaluations.

(a}(f) Report in a public meeting to the Mayor and the City Council on
the implementation of this ordinance and recommend ordinances,
resolutions, and regulations to ensure compliance with the
requirements and intents of this Ordinance.

(k)(q) Provide input on strategies: €verv-At least every three (3) years,
the department head a representative of each department
receiving funds from this Ordinance shall present to the
Commission a priority spending plan for funds received from this
measure. The priority spending plan shall include proposed
expenditures, strategic rationales for those expenditures and
intended measurable outcomes and metrics expected from those
expenditures. The first presentation shall occur within 120 days of
the effective date of this Ordinance. The-ln a public meeting, the
Commission mav-shall make recommendations to the Mayor and
City Council on the strategies in the plans. Spending of tax
proceeds of this measure must be sufficiently flexible to allow for
timely responsiveness to the changing causes of violent crime. The
priority spending plans shall reflect such changes.

1422654v2

8

The Commission will recommend to the Mayor and City Council
those strategies and practices funded bv tax proceeds of this
ordinance that should be continued and/or terminated, based on
successes in responding to, reducing or preventing violent crime
as demonstrated in the evaluation.

feXh) Semi-Annual Progress Reports: Twice each year, the Commission
shall receive a report from a representative of each department
receiving funds from this ordinance, updating the Commission on
the priority spending plans and demonstrating progress towards
the desired outcomes.

(B)	Accountability and Reporting.

1	Annual Program Evaluation: Annual independent program
evaluations funded by department 6et aside6 pursuant to Section
3(C) shalh- include performance analysis and evidence that programs
and strategies are progressing toward the desired outcomes.
Program evaluations will consider whether programs and strategies
are achieving reductions in community violence and serving those at
the highest risk. Short-term successes achieved bv these strategies
and long-term desired outcomes will be considered in the program
evaluations, if feasible, include performance analysis, the number of
people served and other measurable metricsas deemed appropriate
to the strategies adopted by the Departments.

2.	Annual Audit Review and Engineer: An independent audit shall be
performed annually to ensure accountability and proper disbursement
of the proceeds of this tax in accordance with the objectives stated
herein as provided by Government Code sections 50075.1 and
50075.3. The City will, from time to time, retain an engineer for
services pertaining to this parcel tax.

Section 4. SPECIAL FUND.

All funds collected by the City from the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be
deposited into a special fund in the City treasury and appropriated and expended only
for the purposes and uses authorized by this Ordinance.

Section 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.

The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall become effective upon passage.

Section 6. TERM OF TAX IMPOSITION.

The taxes enacted by this ordinance shall be imposed and levied for a period of
ten (10) years. The City shall place delinquencies on subsequent tax bills.

9

Section 7. SAVINGS CLAUSE.

If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Ordinance is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause,
section or part of this Ordinance and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this Ordinance. It is hereby declared
that the City would have adopted this Ordinance had such unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.

If any tax imposed by this Ordinance is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the amounts, services, programs and personnel
required to be funded from such tax shall be reduced proportionately by any revenues lost
due to such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity.

Section 8. SPECIAL ACCOUNT

The City shall deposit into a special account all funds collected by the City from
the taxes imposed by this Ordinance and shall appropriate and expend such funds only
for the purposes authorized by this Ordinance.

Section 9. NO AMENDMENT.

The tax rates set forth herein may not be increased by action of the City Council
without the applicable voter approval but the City Council may make any other changes to
this Ordinance as are consistent with its purpose.

PART 2. PARCEL TAX

Section 1. DEFINITIONS.

For purposes of this Ordinance, the following terms shall be defined as set forth

below:

(A)	“Additional” shall mean an increase in the existing number.

(B)	"Administrative Costs” shall mean overhead costs, including central
services, departmental and/or divisional.

(C)	"Building” shall mean any structure having a roof supported by columns or
by walls and designed for the shelter or housing of any person, chattel or property of any
kind. The word "Building" includes the word "structure."

(D)	“Family” shall mean one or more persons related by blood, marriage,
domestic partnership, or adoption, who are living together in a single residential unit and
maintaining a common household. Family shall also mean all unrelated persons who live
together in a single Residential Unit and maintain a common household.

10

(E)	“Geographic Policing” means a decentralized and focused approach to
policing. Officers are assigned and deployed to specific geographic areas. The
Commander leading each area is responsible and accountable at all times for addressing
crime within the area directing and allocating police resources according to particular local
needs.

(F)	“Hotel” shall mean as defined by Oakland Municipal Code section 4.24.020.

(G)	“Multiple Residential Unit Parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned for a Building,
or those portions thereof, which accommodates or is intended to contain two or more
residential units.

(H)	"Non-Residential” shall mean all parcels that are not classified by this
Ordinance as Residential Parcels, and shall include, but not be limited to, parcels for
industrial, commercial and institutional improvements, whether or not currently developed.

(I)	"Occupancy" shall be as defined by Oakland Municipal Code section

4.24.020.

(J)	“Officer” shall mean a position in the Oakland Police Department for sworn
police personnel at the rank of officer or sergeant.

(K)	"Operator" shall be as defined by Oakland Municipal Code section 4.24.020.

(L)	“Owner” shall mean the Person having title to real estate as shown on the
most current official assessment role of the Alameda County Assessor.

(M)	“Parcel” shall mean a unit of real estate in the City of Oakland as shown on
the most current official assessment role of the Alameda County Assessor.

(N)	“Person” shall mean an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.

(O)	“Possessory Interest" as it applies to property owned by any agency of the
government of the United States, the State of California, or any political subdivision
thereof, shall mean possession of, claim to, or right to the possession of, land or
Improvements and shall include any exclusive right to the use of such land or
Improvements.

(P)	"Residential Unit" shall mean a Building or portion of a Building designed for
or occupied exclusively by one Family.

(Q)	“Single Family Residential Parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned for single-
family residences, whether or not developed.

1422654v2

11

(R)	’Transient" shall mean any individual who exercises Occupancy of a hotel or
is entitled to Occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other
agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions
of calendar days as full days. Any individual so occupying space in a Hotel shall be
deemed to be a Transient until the period of thirty (30) consecutive days has elapsed.

Section 2. IMPOSITION OF PARCEL TAX.

There is hereby imposed a special tax on all Owners of parcels in the City of
Oakland for the privilege of using municipal services and the availability of such services.
The tax imposed by this Section shall be assessed on the Owner unless the Owner is by
law exempt from taxation, in which case, the tax imposed shall be assessed to the holder
of any Possessory 'Interest in such parcel, unless such holder is also by law exempt from
taxation. The tax is imposed as of July 1 of each year on the person who owned the
parcel on that date. The tax shall be collected at the same time, by the same officials, and
pursuant to the same procedures as the one percent property tax imposed pursuant to
Article XIIIA of the California Constitution.

Base Amount of Tax. The tax hereby imposed shall be set as follows subject to
adjustment as provided in Section 5 below:

(A)	For owners of all Single Family Residential Parcels, the tax shall be at the
annual rate of$99.77per parcel.

(B)	For owners of all Multiple Residential Unit Parcels, the tax shall be at the
annual rate of per occupied Residential Unit of $68.15per parcel.

Owners of units that are vacant for six months or more per year may apply to the
Director of Finance to have the rate reduced by 50% per vacant Residential Unit located
on the Parcel of $34.07 per parcel.

(C)	The tax for Non-Residential Parcels is calculated using both frontage and
square footage measurements to determine total Single Family Residential Unit
Equivalents (SFE). A frontage of 80 feet for a commercial/industrial parcel, for example, is
equal to one (1) single family resident unit equivalent. (See matrix.) An area of 6,400
square feet for the commercial industrial parcel is equal to one (1) single family resident
unit equivalent. The tax is the annual rate $51.09 multiplied by the total number of Single
Family Equivalents (determined by the frontage and square footage).

Land Use Category	Frontage	Area (SF)
Commercial Institutional	80	6,400
Industrial	100	10,000
Public Utility	1,000	100,000
Golf Course	500	100,000
Quarry	1,000	250,000

Example: assessment calculation for a Commercial Institutional Parcel with a Frontage of
160 feet and an Area of 12,800 square feet:

1422654v2

12

Frontage 160 feet + 80 = 2 SFE

Area	12,800 square feet + 6,400 = 2 SFE

2 SFE + 2 SFE = 4 SFE
4 SFE x $51.09 = $204.36 tax

(D)	An Owner of An Undeveloped Parcel is exempt from this parcel tax if the
owner can prove that the parcel was undeveloped for at least six months of the year in
question.

(E)	The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be imposed on each Hotel within
the City as follows:

1.	Residential Hotels. Rooms in a Hotel occupied by individuals who were not
Transients for 80% or more of the previous Fiscal Year shall be deemed Residential Units
and the parcel on which they are located shall be subject to the Parcel tax imposed on
Multiple Residential Unit Parcels. The remainder of the Building shall be subject to the
applicable tax computed in accordance with the Single Family Residential Unit Equivalent
formula set forth in Section 2(C).

2.	Transient Hotels. Notwithstanding the previous subsection, if 80% or more of
the Operator's gross receipts for the previous Fiscal Year were reported as rent received
from Transients on a return filed by the Operator in compliance with section 4.24.010 of
the Oakland Municipal Code (commonly known as the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax
of the City of Oakland), such Hotel shall be deemed a Transient Hotel. The entire Building
shall be deemed a Non-Residential Parcel, categorized as Commercial/lnstitutional, and
shall be subject to the applicable tax computed in accordance with the Single Family
Residential Unit Equivalent formula set forth in Section 2(C), and the parcel tax imposed
on Multiple Residential Units shall not apply.

Section 3. EXEMPTIONS

(A)	Low income household exemption. The following is exempt from this tax: an
Owner of a single family residential unit (1) who resides in such unit and (2) whose
combined family income, from all sources for the previous fiscal year, is at or below the
income level qualifying as "very low income" for a Family of such size under Section 8 of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 et. seq.,) for such fiscal
year. Owners must apply for the exemption provided for in this section annually by petition
to the Director of the Finance of the City of Oakland ("Director of Finance") or City
Administrator designee in the manner and time set forth in procedures established by the
Director of Finance. Such petitions shall be on forms provided by the Director of Finance
and shall provide such information as the Director of Finance shall require, including, but
not limited to, federal income tax returns and W-2 forms of owner-occupants eligible for
this exemption.

13

(B)	Fifty percent reduction for affordable housing projects. Rental housing
owned by nonprofit corporations and nonprofit-controlled partnerships for senior, disabled
and low income households that are exempt from ad valorem property tax pursuant
California Revenue and Taxation Code 214(f), (g) and (h) shall be liable for only 50% of
the parcel tax. The exemption shall apply in the same proportion that is exempted from ad
valorem property tax.

(C)	Rebate to tenants in foreclosed single family homes. The City will provide a
rebate of one-half of the tax and subsequent increases thereto ("Foreclosure Rebate") to
tenants in single family homes that have been foreclosed upon who have paid a passed
through Parcel Tax. To qualify for the Foreclosure Rebate, a tenant must: (1) have lived in
the unit before foreclosure proceedings commenced; and (2) be at or below the income
level qualifying as "very low income" for a Family of such size under Section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 et. seq.,) for such fiscal
year. The City will provide the Foreclosure Rebate for every month that the tax was
applied and the tenant occupied the unit. The City will provide the Foreclosure Rebate at
the end of each fiscal year, or when the tenant vacates the unit, whichever is earlier. The
City Administrator will promulgate regulations to effectuate this Part 3, Section 3(D).]

Section 4. REDUCTION IN TAX: RATE ADJUSTMENT

(A)	Subject to paragraph (B) of this section, the tax rates imposed by this
ordinance are maximum rates and may not be increased by the City Council above such
maximum rates. The tax imposed by the ordinance may be suspended, reduced or
eliminated by the City Council for a subsequent fiscal year upon a vote of the City Council
on or before June 30th of the year in which the City Council determines that after such
suspension, reduction or elimination there will be sufficient revenues available to balance
the City Council’s Adopted Policy Budget and provide the services and programs
described in Part I, Section 3 above. Such suspension, reduction or elimination shall be
effective the fiscal year following such vote.

(B)	Beginning in the Fiscal Year 2015-2016, and each year thereafter, the City
Council may increase the tax imposed hereby only upon a finding that the cost of living in
the immediate San Francisco Bay Area, as shown on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for
all items in the San Francisco Bay Area as published by the U S. Department of Labor
Statistics, has increased. The percentage increase of the tax imposed hereby shall not
exceed such increase, using Fiscal Year 2014-2015 as the index year and in no event
shall any annual adjustment exceed five percent (5%).

Section 5. DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE

It shall be the duty of the Director of the Finance to collect and receive all taxes
imposed by this Ordinance. The Director of Finance is charged with the enforcement of
this Ordinance and may adopt rules and regulations relating to such enforcement.

1422654v2

14

Section 6. EXAMINATION OF BOOKS. RECORDS. WITNESSES:

PENALTIES.

The Director of Finance or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine
assessment rolls, property tax records, records of the Alameda County Recorder and any
other records of the County of Alameda deemed necessary in order to determine
ownership of Parcels and computation of the tax imposed by this Ordinance.

The Director of Finance or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine the
books, papers and records of any person subject to the tax imposed by this Ordinance for
the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim or return filed and to ascertain
the tax due. The Director of Finance, or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine
any person, under oath, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim or
return filed or to ascertain the tax due under this Ordinance and for this purpose may
compel the production of books, papers and records before him/her, whether as parties or
witnesses, whenever s/he believes such persons have knowledge of such matters. The
refusal of such examination by any person subject to the tax shall be deemed a violation of
this Ordinance and of the Oakland Municipal Code and subject to any and all remedies
specified therein.

15

Section 7. COLLECTION OF TAX: INTEREST AND PENALTIES.

The tax shall be delinquent if the City does not receive it on or before the
delinquency date set forth in the notice mailed to the Owner’s address as shown on the
most current assessment roll of the Alameda County Tax Collector; and the tax shall be
collected in such a manner as the City Council may decide. The City may place
delinquencies on a subsequent tax bill.

A one-time penalty at a rate set by the City Council, which in no event shall exceed
25% of the tax due per fiscal year, is hereby imposed by this ordinance on all taxpayers
who fail to timely pay the tax provided by this ordinance; in addition, the City Council may
assess interest at the rate of 1 % per month on the unpaid tax and the penalty thereon.

Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this
ordinance shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

The City may authorize the County of Alameda to collect the taxes imposed by this
ordinance in conjunction with and at the same time and in the same manner as the County
collects property taxes for the City. If the City elects to authorize the County of Alameda to
collect the tax, penalties and interest shall be those applicable to the nonpayment of
property taxes.

Section 8. COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES.

The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions of this
ordinance shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person owing money under the
provisions of this ordinance shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for
the recovery for such amount.

Section 9. REFUND OF TAX. PENALTY. OR INTEREST PAID MORE THAN

ONCE: OR ERRONEOUSLY OR ILLEGALLY COLLECTED.

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest imposed by this ordinance
has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the City it may be refunded provided a verified written claim for refund, stating the
specific ground upon which such claim is founded, is received by the Director of Finance
within one (1) year of the date of payment. The claim shall be filed by the person who paid
the tax or such person’s guardian, conservator, or the executor of her or his estate. No
representative claim may be filed on behalf of a taxpayers or a class of taxpayers. The
claim shall be reviewed by the Director of Finance and shall be made on forms provided
by the Director of Finance. If the claim is approved by the Director of Finance, the excess
amount collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited against any amounts then
due and payable from the Person from whom it was collected or by whom paid, and the
balance may be refunded to such Person, his/her administrators or executors. Filing a
claim shall be a condition precedent to legal action against the City for a refund of the tax.

16

PART 3.

10-YEAR EXTENSION OF PARKING TAX SURCHARGE

The Municipal Code is hereby amended to add as set forth below (section
numbers and titles are indicated in bold type; additions are indicated by underscoring
and deletions are indicated by 6trike-through type; portions of the regulations not cited
or not shown in underscoring or strike-through type are not changed). Chapter 4.14,
Section 4.16.020 and Section 4.16.031 of the Municipal Code are hereby amended to
read as follows:

4.16.031	Imposition of Surcharge

Subject to the provisions for the collection of taxes and definitions in this chapter,
there shall be an additional tax of eight and one-half (8 1/2) percent imposed on the
rental of every parking space in a parking station in the City until December 31. 2024.

and be it,

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Council of the City of Oakland does
hereby request that the Board of Supervisors of Alameda County order the
consolidation of the Oakland Municipal election with the statewide general election of
November 4, 2014, consistent with provisions of State Law; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED, that each ballot used at said election shall have printed
therein, in addition to any other matter required by law, the following:

AN ORDINANCE TO MAINTAIN A PARCEL TAX AND A PARKING TAX
SURCHARGE FOR A PERIOD OF TEN YEARS TO IMPROVE POLICE, FIRE
AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE SERVICES AND COMMUNITY STRATEGIES
FOR AT-RISK YOUTH AND YOUNG ADULTS.

Measure . Without increasing current tax rates, to reduce gun violence, robberies, and homicides, improve 9-1-1 response times and support at-risk youth/young adults, shall the City of Oakland provide improved police, fire and emergency response services and proven community programs, including dropout prevention, crisis intervention, and job training/placement, by continuing to collect a parking tax surcharge and a parcel tax for 10 years subject to annual performance and financial audits monitored by a citizens oversight committee?	Yes	
	No	

1422654V2

17

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Council hereby authorizes and directs the
City Clerk of the City of Oakland (the “City Clerk”) at least 88 days prior to November 4,
2014, to file with the Alameda County Clerk certified copies of this resolution; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Council does hereby request that the
Board of Supervisors of Alameda County include on the ballots and sample ballots
recitals and measure language to be voted on by the voters of the qualified electors of
the City of Oakland; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Clerk is hereby directed to cause the
posting, publication and printing of notices, pursuant to the requirements of the Charter
of the City of Oakland, Chapter 3 of the Oakland Municipal Code, the Government Code
and the Election Code of the State of California; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Council does hereby request that the
Registrar of Voters of the County of Alameda perform necessary services in connection
with said election; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Clerk is hereby directed to obtain printing,
supplies and services as required; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Clerk is hereby authorized to provide
such other services and supplies in connection with said election as may be required by
the Statutes of the State of California and the Charter of the City of Oakland; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That in accordance with the Elections Code and Chapter
11 of the Oakland Municipal Code, the City Clerk shall fix and determine a date for
submission of arguments for or against said proposed Ordinance and rebuttals, and said
date shall be posted in the Office of the City Clerk; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Clerk and City Administrator are hereby
authorized and directed to take any and all actions necessary under law to prepare for and
conduct the 2014statewide general election and appropriate all monies necessary for the
City Administrator and City Clerk to prepare and conduct the November 4, 2014, statewide
general election, consistent with law; and be it

1422654V2

18

FURTHER RESOLVED:	That	certain	sections	of	this	Ordinance	may	be codified

into the City of Oakland Municipal Code at the direction of the City Clerk upon approval by
the voters.

IN COUNCIL, OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA_____________2014

PASSED BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

AYES - BROOKS, GALLO, GIBSON MCELHANEY, KALB, KAPLAN, REID, SCHAAF and
PRESIDENT KERNIGHAN

NOES

ABSENT

ABSTENTION

ATTEST:

LATONDA SIMMONS

City Clerk and Clerk of the Council

Of the City of Oakland, California

Date:

12

MEETING OF THE
OAKLAND CITY COUNCIL
JULY 15, 2014

CITY OF OAKLAND

ONE-FRANK OGAWA PLAZA • 2N0 FLOOR • OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA 946 1 2

Noel Gallo	{510)238-7005

City Council Member, District 5	(51°) 238-6129

1	TTY/TDD	(510)	839-6451

TO: PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE
FROM: COUNCILMEMEBR NOEL GALLO
DATE: MARCH 11,2014

RE: ITEM 4 - INFORMATIONAL REPORT ON PUBLIC SAFETY BALLOT
MEASURES

Colleagues -

For purposes of guiding the discussion on the development of the 2014 Public Safety Ballot
Measure, I’d like to present to you some summarized information regarding the following:

•	The Current Measure Y

'	•	Measure Y Revenue and Expenditures (FY 2013-2014 Budget)

•	Polling Information

Additionally, I have included the following as attachments to this memo:

. • Measure BB of 2010

•	Measure Y of 2004

•	Ballot Measure Deadlines for the November 4, 2014 Election'

•	Supplemental Report to Ballot Measure Deadlines for the November 4, 2014 Election

EXPLANATION OF CURRENT MEASURE Y WITH MEASURE BB CHANGES:

What is the Current Measure Y?

The current Violence Prevention and Public Safety Act of 2004 (Measure Y) with the 2010
Measure BB amendments, provides for the collection of dedicated parcel taxes and a parking tax
surcharge to fund police staffing, enhance fire safety, and expand violence prevention programs.
The measure services receive annual evaluation through the Measure Y Oversight Committee
and a third party independent auditor. Measure Y passed in 2004 with 70 percent of the vote. The
taxes became effective in January 2005 and expire in January 2015.

ITEM: 4

Public Safety Committee
March 11, 2014

Measure BB, passed in 2010 with 71 percent of the vote, altered the original 2004 Measure Y.
The specific changes to Measure Y, imposed by the Measure BB amendments, include

•	Expanding the funding for a variety of violence prevention services from the limited list
of prevention services in the original measure

•	Allows the City to operate "up to" 25 fire engine companies and 7 truck companies

•	Adds administrative cost covering into the Measure Y tax expenditures

•	Allows the City to collect or get reimbursed for costs for services during any period that
the City did not collect taxes for Measure Y

•	Removed the minimum policing staffing appropriation requirement from July 1, 2010—
July 1,2015

•	Made small specific collections amendments that only applied to fiscal year FY 2010-

2011

For the full text of Measure BB, read Attachment 1, which shows amendments to the original
Measure Y text (Attachment 2).

Measure Y Revenue and Expenditures (FY 2013-2014 Budget):

The City currently collects a parcel tax at an annual rate of $97.62 (as of 2014) and collects a
parking surcharge on commercial lots of 8.5 percent. In total, the City collects approximately
$21.1 million annually for Measure Y and provides approximately a $2.2 million General
Purpose Fund transfer and staff support to subsidize Measure Y in order to fund all required
services outlined in the measure. The charts below outline the revenue sources and the
expenditure allocations. Table 1 further defines the Measure Y expenditure allocations.

Revenue Sources

FY 2013 - 2014

General Fund
Subsidy,

ffl Parcel fax -l Parking B General Fund Subsidy

' ITEM: 4
Public Safety Committee
March 11, 2014

Expenditure Allocations

FY 2013 - 2014

Crime

Prevention

$6,624,934

28%

Evaluation/
Oversight
$529,953
2%

Fire

$4,000,000

17%

0 Fire 1) Police □ Crime Prevention Evaluation/Oversight

Table 1: Measure Y Expenditure Allocations:
Service	Expenditure

Fire Safety Services ':

-f$4 Million

Police Services (partially funds
63 officers)

-	-	,jtr<

Violence Prevention Programs

( Oakland Unite) - -y

60% of remaining revenue with 1- 3% for program evaluation

40% of remaining revenue with 1-3% for program evaluation

*2*



Administrative Costs	Covers	revenue	collection,	oversight	and	audits

ITEM: 4

Public Safety Committee
March 11, 2014

STEPS TOWARDS A NEW SAFETY AND SERVICES MEASURE:

Polling:

Previous polling conducted by community stakeholders showed that a new measure should focus
on outcomes (reducing violent crime and gun violence, improving 9-1-1 response times, etc.).
The polling also researched the community’s response to certain messages.

The City hired a consultant for professional services to assist with ballot measure development,
community engagement, and polling and data analysis. The first poll, which will be going out in
the field by March 12, will evaluate voter opinions regarding continuing the existing tax rate or
voter tolerance for an increased tax rate. This very brief poll, with a sample size of 600
interviews, will also gauge reaction to some key programs and services that could be included in
a measure.

The high level overview results will be shared with the Public Safety Committee.

Timeline and Deadlines:

See Attachments 3 and 4 for timeline and deadline information.

ATTACHMENTS:

Attachment 1: Measure BB of 2010
Attachment 2: Measure Y of 2004

Attachment 3: Agenda Report: Ballot Measure Deadlines for the November 4, 2014
Election

- Attachment 4: Supplemental Report to Ballot Measure Deadlines for the November 4,
2014 Election

ITEM: 4

Public Safety Committee
March 11, 2014



APPROVI

iND LEGALITY

INTRODUCED BY COUNCILMEMBER

RESOLUTION NO.

NO.__________C.M.S.

Resolution Submitting, On The City Council's Own Motion, To The Electors At The
November 2, 2004 General Election, A Proposed Ordinance (1) Creating A Special
Parcel Tax And (2) Increasing The Parking Tax In Order To Fund Violence And
Crime Prevention Programs; Consolidating The Election With The Statewide
Presidential Election; And Directing The City Clerk To Fix The Date For Submission
Of Arguments And Provide For Notice And P ublication In Accordance With T he
November 2,2004, Statewide Presidential Election

WHEREAS, the citizens of the City of Oakland (the “City”) are committed to a
community-oriented approach to violence prevention in Oakland; and

WHEREAS, preventing violence and ensuring public safety requires an integrated
system of social-services intervention, long-term crime-prevention programs, police
services and fire-safety and paramedic support; and

WHEREAS, Oakland funds basic police and fire services at levels below those of
similar-sized cities throughout the country; and

WHEREAS, the unemployment rate as of May, 2004 was 8.6% ,and Oakland has a
population of over 3,000 people on parole, many of whom have difficulty finding work; and

WHEREAS, in an effort to prevent violence and crime, the City has partnered with
the State of California to work with parolees, to make sure they have an opportunity for'
successful reentry into society, including job opportunities, instead of resorting to crime;
and

WHEREAS, in an effort to prevent violence and crime, Oakland currently funds or;
administers programs for youth recreation and ceunseling, recreation, job training,
domestic violence intervention, and parole counseling;	.	-	»■ .

WHEREAS, currently these programs are limited in scope or have been cut due to
funding constraints; and	•'	•	r

WHEREAS, at the general election of November 2,1996, the voters of the State of
California amended the state constitution, adding Article XIII C, which requires that all new
or increased special taxes be submitted to the voters prior to becoming effective,

325671

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:

That the City Council of the City of Oakland does hereby submit to the voters at the
November 2, 2004 general election, an ordinance, which reads as follows:

PARTI. GENERAL

Section 1. TITLE AND PURPOSE.

(A)	Title. This ordinance may be cited as the “Violence Prevention and Public
Safety Act of 2004”

(B)	Purpose. The taxes imposed or increased under this ordinance are solely
for the purpose of raising revenue necessary to retain and enhance services and
programs to prevent violence and crime and enhance fire safety in the City of Oakland.

The parcel tax imposed in Part 2 is not an ad valorem tax on real property, nor a
transaction tax or sales tax on the sale of real property. It is an excise tax ort the privilege
of using and use of municipal services. Such municipal services increase and provide a
greater benefit to Owners of Parcels when programs aimed at preventing violence and
crime in the City are enhanced. Because the proceeds of the tax will be deposited in a
special fund restricted for the services and programs specified herein, the tax is a
special tax.

Section 2. FINDINGS

1.	Investing in an coordinated system of early intervention, community
policing and violence-prevention efforts before injury occurs will reduce economic and
emotional costs and be a cost-effective use of taxpayer dollars.

2.	Violence and crime occurs at workplaces, on school grounds, and in
residential neighborhoods within the Oakland community.

3.	Due to budget constraints, the City's police department is staffed at a level

significantly lower than cities of similar size in the United States.	-

4.	Due to budget shortfalls, Oakland's fire department is currently operating

with limited fire tracks and crews that rotate among several, stations, thereby leaving
certain fire stations under staffed.	.........

5.	Fully staffing and equipping fire stations throughout the City will provide • ’

the necessary fire and medical response in case of critical emergencies or natural; •
disasters.	.-i*." ~

6.	This special tax is based on a community assessment of innovative -
prevention strategies and is intended to be proportional to and based on estimates of
typical use and benefit from these municipal services. !.'

325871-1

2

7.	Crime in Oakland disrupts local commercial activity, reduces business
and industrial productivity, deters tourism and outside financial investments, and
depreciates the value of real estate.

8.	The apportionment of the parcel tax to various types of properties is
based, in part, on the intensity of policing, violence prevention and fire protection
services needed for differeht kinds of land uses and on the average number of
occupants of a parcel of each type of property. Users of residential property typically
generate more calls for service to the police and fire departments, and the intensity of
use of police and fire protection services increases as the number of residential units on
a parcel increases. On the other hand, because of the typically large size of oommercial
and industrial parcels, and because the employees who work for businesses located on
such parcels and the customers who visit such businesses generally outnumber the
residents of even a similarly sized parcel ef residential property (partly because non-
residentially developed real property often has more than one business operating on it),
the tax on commercial/industrial properties is calculated based on single family
equivalent units.

9.	As the density of residential development increases, the cost ef providing
policing and violence and crime prevention services also increases. The differing tax
rates accurately reflect the differing costs of providing services to the different densities
of residential development.

10.	Some services, such as fire protection services and an additional
neighborhood police officer in each community policing beat, are not based on density
of population.

11.	The parcel tax rates established in this ordinance are intended to be
proportional to and baaed on estimates of typical use of and benefit to occupants of
different residential parcels of policing and violence prevention services. The rates are
not tailored to individual use both because such tailoring is not administratively feasible
and because the City must make police and fire protection services available to all
parcels and owners of parcels equally.

12.	Each occupant of a parcel derives value from the availability policing and .
violence and crime prevention and fire protection services. The value of such services.
is in their availability and benefit to all residents, and it would be unfair to charge their v i
costs only to those persons who actually use the services. Even if such services are •
not presently used by an occupant, they may be used in the future and, in any event, \ i.
their availability benefits each occupant. The City’s policing, violence prevention and
fire protection services enhance the health, safety and welfare of all occupants of
property in the City and improve their quality of life both directly and indirectly.

Reducing violence and erime is vitally important to the health, safety, and welfare of the
occupants.

13.	Nothing in this ordinance is intended to preclude owners from recovering -
the tax from the occupant. Whether the occupant is charged depends on the .
occupancy agreement and the requirements of the Residential Rent Adjustment i •

325871-1

3

Program. Moreover, non-payment will not be a lien on the property but a personal
obligation of the occupant or owner.

14.	It is not feasible for the City to collect the tax from the non-owner
occupants on whom it is imposed because the records available to theiCity do not
include the names of non-owner occupants. Therefore, the only practical way to collect
a tax imposed on occupants is to collect it from the owners of the occupied properties.

15.	There are existing general taxes in the form of parking and business
license, the proceeds of which are deposited in the general fund. Additional revenues
received as a result of this ordinance will be i)sed for the purposes set for in Section 3
and thus are special taxes.

16.	This Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act,
Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq., as it can be seen with certainty that there
is no possibility that the activity authorized herein may have a significant effect on the
environment.

Section 3. USE OF PROCEEDS

The tax proceeds raised by this ordinance may only be used as part of the following
integrated program of violence prevention and public safety intervention, in accordance
with the following specific purposes:

1.	Community and Neighborhood Policing: Hire and maintain at least a total of
63 police officers assigned to the following specific community-policing
objectives:

a.	Neighborhood beat officers: each community policing beat shall have
at least one neighborhood officer assigned solely to serve the
residents of that beat to provide consistent contact and familiarity
between residents and officers, continuity in problem solving and basic
availability of police response in each neighborhood;

b.	' School safety, supplement police services available to respond to

school safety and truancy;

c.	Crime reduction team: at least 6 of the total additional officers to

investigate and respond to illegal narcotic transactions and	.

commission of violent crimes in identified violence hot spots; ;	;	:' .<

d.	Domestic violence and child abuse intervention: additional officers to *
team with social service providers to intervene in situations of
domestic violence and child abuse, including child prostitution;

e.	Officer training and equipment: training in community-policing
techniques, establishing police-social services referrals and equipping

325871-1

4

officers provided in this paragraph, the total costs of which shall not
exceed $500,000 in any fiscal year that this ordinance is in effect.

2.	Violence Prevention Services With an Emphasis on Youth and Children:

Expand preventive social services provided by the City of Oakland, er by
adding capacity to community-based nonprofit programs with demonstrated
past success for the following objectives:

a.	Youth outreach counselors: hire and train personnel who will reach
out, counsel and mentor at-risk adolescents and young adults by
providing services and presenting employment opportunities;

b.	After and in school program for youth and children: expand existing
City programs and City supported programs that provide recreational,
academic tutoring and mentoring opportunities for at-risk adolescents
and children during after school hours; expand truancy enforcement
programs to keep kids in school.

c.	Domestic violence and child abuse counselors: make available
counselors who will team with police and the criminal justice system to
assist victims of domestic violence or child prostitution and to find .
services that help to avoid repeat abuse situations; expand early
childhood intervention programs for children exposed to violence in the
home at an early age.

d.	Offender/parolee employment training: provide parolee pre-release
employment skills training and provide employers with wage incentives
to hire and train young offenders or parolees;

3.	Fire Services: Maintain staffing and equipment to operate 25 (twenty-five) fire
engine companies and 7 (seven) truck companies, expand paramedic
services, and establish a mentership program at each station withian amount
not to exceed $4,000,000 annually from funds collected under this Ordinance.

4.	Evaluation: Not less than 1 % or more than 3% of funds appropriated to each
police service or social service program shall be set aside for the purpose of'-'
independent evaluation of the program, including the number of people
served and the rate of crime or violence reduction achieved.

5.	Mandated Apportionment to Social Servioe Programs: Of the total proceeds^. '■
spent on programs enumerated in this Section 3, Paragraphs 1 and 2, not

less than 40% of such proceeds must be allocated to programs enumerated r or
in this Section 3, Paragraph 2 eaoh year this Ordinance is in effect. V

PART 2. OVERSIGHT. MINIMUM STAFFING AND TERM OF TAX IMPOSITION . JI

Section 1. ANNUAL AUDIT.	■:

An independent audit shell be performed to assure accountability and the proper:
disbursement of the proceeds of this tax in accordance with the objectives stated herein in

325871-1

5

accordance with Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3. Tax proceeds may
be used to pay for the audit.

Section 2. SPECIAL FUND'

All funds collected by the City from the taxes imposed by this ordinance shall be
deposited into a special fund in the City treasury and appropriated and expended only
for the purposes authorized by this Ordinance.

Only the incremental taxes and surcharges approved by Parts 3, 4. 5, and 6 of
this ordinance shall be dedicated to the purposes specified by this ordinance. Any
portion of the parking and business license tax rate that were general taxes prior to the
enactment of this ordinance shall remain general taxes.

Section 3. OVERSIGHT

\

To ensure proper administration of the revenue collection and spending, and the
implementation of the programs mandated by this, ordinance, the Mayor shall appoint
three members of a "Violence Prevention and Public Safety Oversight Committee” and
each councilmember shall appoint one member. The cemmittee shall review the annual
audit, evaluate, inquire and review the administration, coordination and evaluations of
the programs and make recommendations to the Mayer and the City Council for any
new regulations, reselutiona or ordinances for the administration of the programs to
comply with the requirements and Intent of this Ordinance.

Section 4. MINIMUM POLICE STAFFING PREREQUISITE AT FISCAL YEAR
03-04 LEVEL

r

No tax authorized by this Ordinance may be collected in any year that the
appropriation for staffing of sworn uniformed police officers is at a level lower than the
amount necessary to maintain the number of uniformed officers employed by the City of
Oakland for the fiscal year 2003-2004 (739).

Section 5. TERM OF TAX IMPOSITION

The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall become effective on January 1, 200£
and shall continue in effect for 10 years.

Section 6. SAVINGS CLAUSE.	•	•	.

If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this ordinance is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect
only such provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this ordinance and shall not affect
or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this
ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City, that the City would have
adopted this ordinance had such u nconstitutional, illegal or invalid provision, sentence,
clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.

325871-1

6

J

If any tax or surcharge imposed by this ordinance is found to be unconstitutional,
illegal or invalid, the amounts, services, programs and personnel (as set forth in Part 3)
required to be funded from such taxes and surcharges shall be reduced proportionately by
any revenues lost due to such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity.

Section 7. REGULATIONS. .

The City Council is hereby authorized to promulgate such regulations or
ordinances as it shall deem necessary in order to implement the provisions of this
ordinance.

Section 8. NO AMENDMENT.

The tax rates may not be amended by action of the City Council without the
applicable voter approval.

Section 9. CHALLENGE TO TAX..

Any action to challenge the taxes imposed by this ordinance shall be brought
pursuant to Government Code section 50077.5 and Code of Civil Procedure section 860
et seq.

/

PART 3. PARCEL TAX

Section 1. DEFINITIONS.

For purposes of this part only, the following terms shall be defined as set forth

below:

(A)	"Building" shall mean any structure having a roof supported by columns or
by walls and designed for the shelter or housing of any person, chattel or property of any
kind. The word "Building" includes the word "structure."

(B)	“Family” shall mean one or more persons related by blood, marriage, ■

domestic partnership, or adoption, who are living together in a single residential unit and
maintaining a common household. Family shall also mean all unrelated persons who live:
together in a single Residential Unit and maintain a common household..! r ,	;

(C)	‘Hotel” shall mean as defined by Oakland Municipal Code section 4.24.020. -

(D)	"Multiple Residential Unit Parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned for a building, ’
or those portions thereof, that accommodates or is intended to contain two or more. -
residential units.

(E)	“Non-Residential” shall mean all parcels that are not classified by this

ordinance as Residential Parcels, and shall include, but not be limited to, industrial!
commercial and institutional improvements, whether or not currently developed.;	v

325871-1

7

(F)	"Occupancy" shall be as defined by Oakland Municipal Code section

4.24.020.

(G)	"Operator” shall be as defined by Oakland Municipal Code section 4.24.020.

(H)	“Owner" shall mean the Person having title to real estate as shown on the
most current official assessment role of the Alameda County Assessor.

(I)	“Parcel” shall mean a unit of real estate in the City of Oakland as shown on
the most current official assessment role of the Alameda County Assessor.

(J)	“Person” shall mean an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.

(K)	"Possessory Interest" as it applies to property owned by any agency of the
government of the United States, the State of California, or any political subdivision
thereof, shall mean possession of, claim to, or right to the. possession of, land or
Improvements and shall include any exclusive right to the use of such land or
Improvements.

(L)	"Residential Unit" shall mean a Building or portion of a Building designed for
or occupied exclusively by one Family.

(M)	“Single Family Residential Parcel" shall mean a parcel zoned for single-
family residences, whether or not developed.

(N)	"Transient" shall mean any individual who exercises Occupancy of a hotel or
is entitled to Occupancy by reasen of concession, permit, right of access, Rcense er other,
agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calender day6 or less, counting portions ".
of calendar days as full days. Any individual so occupying space in a Hotel shall, be- /
deemed to be a Transient until the period of thirty (30) consecutive days as elapsed.

Section 2. IMPOSITION OF PARCEL TAX.	-	k ■	‘J

There is hereby imposed a special tax on all Owners of parcels in. the, City of <.
Oakland for the privilege of using municipal services and the availability of such services. = _
The tax imposed by this Section shall be assessed on theOwner unless the Owner is by .-«
law exempt from taxation, in which case, the tax imposed shall be assessed to the holder/, -
of any Possessory Interest in such parcel, unless such holder is also by law exempt from-'
taxation. The tax is imposed as of July 1 of each year, on the person who owned the ”
parcel on that date.

325871-1

8

The tax hereby imposed shall be at the following rates, subject to annual
adjustment as provided in Section 6:

(A)	For owners of all Single Family Residential Parcels, the tax shall be at the
annual rate of $88.00 per Parcel.

(B)	For owners of all Multiple Residential Unit Parcels, the tax shall be at the
annual rate of $60.12 per occupied Residential Unit. Owners of units that are vacant for
six months or more per year, may apply to the Director of Finance to have the rate
reduced by 50% to $30.06 per vacant Residential Unit located on the Parcel.

(C)	The tax for a Non-Residential Parcels is calculated using both frontage and
square footage measurements to determine total Single Family Residential Unit
Equivalents. A frontage of 80 feet fer a commercial/industrial parcel, for example, Is equal
to one (1) single family resident unit equivalent. (See matrix.) An area of 6,400 square feet
for the commercial industrial parcel is equal to one (1) single family resident unit
equivalent. The tax is the annual rate ($45.07.) multiplied by the. total number of Single
Family Equivalents (determined by the frontage and square footage).

Land use category	Frontage	Area (SF)
Commercial Institutional	80	6,400
Industrial	100	10.000
Public Utility	1,000	100,000
Golf Course	500	100,000
Quarry	1,000	250,000

Example: assessment calculation for an owner of a commercial parcel with a frontage of
160 feet and an area of 12,800 square feet:

Frontage	Area

160 feet	12.800 sf

80 ft./SFE = 2 SFE	6,400 SFfSFE = 2 SFE

2	SFE + 2 SFE = 4 SFE	4 SFE x $45.07 = $180.28	-	'	.	_

(D)	An Owner of An Undeveloped Parcel is exempt from this parcel tax if the•
owner can prove that the parcel was undeveloped for at least six months of the year in *
question.

Section 3. HOTELS

The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be imposed on'each Hotel within the City,
in accordance with the following:

1.	Residential Hotels. If rooms in a Hotel were occupied by individuals who were
not Transients for 80% or more ef the previous fiscal year, such Hotel shall be deemed a
Residential Hotel, and such rooms shall be deemed Residential Units and shall be subject;
to the Parcel tax imposed on Multiple Residential Units. The remainder of the. Building ‘

325871-1

9

shall be subject to the applicable Square Footage tax computed in accordance with the
Single Family Residential Unit Equivalent calculations.

2.	Transient Hotels. Notwithstanding the previous sub-section, if 80% or more of
the Operators gross receipts for the previous fiscal year were reported as reot received
from Transients on a return filed by the Operator in compliance with section 4.24.010 of'
the Oakland Municipal Code (commonly known as the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax
of the City of Oakland), such Hotel shall be deemed a Transient Hotel. The entire Building
shall be deemed a Non-Residential Parcel, categorized as Commercial, Institutional, and
shall be subject to the Square Footage and Single Family Residential Unit Equivalent
calculations set forth in Section 4(C), and the parcel tax imposed on Residential Units shall
not apply.

Section 4. EXEMPTIONS.

Low, income household exemption. Exempt from this tax are owners of single
family residential units in which they reside whose combined family, income, from all
sources for the previous calendar year, is at or below the income level qualifying as
“very low income" for a Family of such size under Section 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1837 (42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 et. seq.,) for such year. Owners must
apply for the exemption provided for in this section annually by petition to the Director ofx
the Finance and Management Agency of the City of Oakland (“Director of Finance”) in
the manner and time set forth in procedures established by the Director of Finance.
Such petitions shall be on forms provided by the Director of Finance and shall provided
such information as the Director of Finance shall require, including, but not limited to,
federal income tax returns and W-2 forms of owner-occupants eligible for this
exemption.

Section s. REDUCTION IN TAX: RATE ADJUSTMENT.

(A)	Subject to paragraph (B) of this section, the tax rates imposed by this

ordinance are maximum rates and may not be increased by the City Council above such '
maximum rates. The tax imposed by the ordinance may be suspended, reduced or»
eliminated by the City Council for a subsequent fiscal year upon a vote of the City Council
on or before June 30th in any year in which the City Council determines that after such
suspension, reduction or elimination there will be sufficient revenues available to balance.;./
the City Council’s Adopted Policy Budget and provide- thn services and programs/ ',
described in Section 3 above. Such suspension, reduction or elimination shall be effective ;
for the fiscal year following such vote.	-- ■ • < >■ ,■	v*

(B)	Begineing in Fiscal Year 2004-2005. and each year thereafter, the City '

Council may increase the tax imposed hereby only upon a finding that the cost of living in
the immediate San Francisco Bay Area, as shown on the Consumer Priee Index (CPI) for
all items in the San Francisco Bay Area as published by the U.S. Department of Labor
Statistics, has increased. The percentage increase of the tax imposed hereby shall not:
exceed such increase, using Fiscaf Year 2003-2004 as the index year and in no events
shall any annual adjustment exceed 5% (five percent).	-' z -	1

325871-1

10

>

Section 6. DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: NOTICE OF DECISIONS.

It shall be the duty of the Director of the Finance and Management Agency
("Director of Finance”) to collect and receive all taxes imposed by this ordinance, and to
keep an accurate record thereof.

The Director of Finance is charged with the enforcement of this ordinance, except
as otherwise provided herein, and may prescribe, adopt, and enforce rules and regulations
relating to the administration and enforcement of this ordinance, including provisions for
the re-examination and correction of returns and payments. The Director of Finance may
prescribe the extent to which any ruling or regulation shall be applied without retroactive
effect.

Upon disallowing any claims submitted pursuant to this ordinance, the Director of
Finance shall mail written notice thereof to the claimant at his/her address as shown on the
Alameda County Assessor’s property tax rolls.

Section 7. EXAMINATION OF BOOKS. RECORDS. WITNESSES. PENALTIES.

/

The Director of Finance or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine
assessment rolls, property tax records, records of the Alameda County Recorder and any
other records of the County of Alameda deemed necessary in order to determine
ownership of Parcels and computation of the tax imposed by this ordinance.

The Director of Finance or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine the
books, papers and records of any person subject to the tax imposed by this ordinance for
the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim or return filed and to ascertain
the tax due. The Director of Fihance, or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine
any person, under oath, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim or
return filed or to ascertain the tax due under this ordinance and for this purpose may
compel the production of books, papers and records before him/her, whether as parties or
witnesses, whenever s/he believes such persons have knowledge of such matters. The -
refusal of such examination by any person subject to the tax shall be deemed a violation of,
this ordinance.

Section 8. COLLECTION OF TAX: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; ..	••	i;J j, v



325871-1

11

The tax levied and imposed by this ordinance shall be due and payable on July 1 of
each year, but it may be paid in two installments due no later than December 10 and April
10. The tax shall be delinquent if not received on or before the delinquency date set forth
in the notice mailed to the Owner’s address as shown on the most current assessment roll
of the Alameda County Tax Collector and shall be collected in such a manner as the City
Council may decide.

A one-time penalty at a rate set by the City Council, which in no event shall exceed
25% of the tax due per year, is hereby imposed by this ordinance on all taxpayers who fail
to timely pay the tax provided by this ordinance; in addition, interest shall be assessed at
the rate of 1% per'month on the unpaid tax and the penalty thereon.

Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this
ordinance shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

The City may authorize to have the taxes imposed by this ordinance collected by
the County of Alameda in conjunction with and at the same time and in the same manner
as the County's collection of property taxes for the City. If the City elects to so collect the
tax, penalties and interest shall be those applicable to the nonpayment of property taxes.

In no event shall anything herein be construed to impose a tax lien on the Parcel to
secure payment of the tax.

Section 9. COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES.

The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions of this
ordinance shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person owing money under the
provisions of this ordinance shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for
the recovery for such amount.

Section 10. REFUND OF TAX. PENALTY. OR INTEREST PAID MORE THAN
ONCE: OR ERRONEOUSLY OR ILLEGALLY COLLECTED.

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, er interest imposed by this ordinance
has been paid more than once, or lias been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the City it may be refunded provided a verified claim in writing therefore; stating the,
specific ground upon which such claim is founded, is filed with the Director of Finance
within one (1) year from the date of payment. The claim shall be filed by the person who
paid the tax or such person's guardian, conservator of the executor of her or his estate..
No claim may be filed on behalf of other taxpayers or a class of taxpayers. The claim shall;
be reviewed by the Director of Finance and shall be made on forms provided by the
Director of Finance. If the claim is approved by the Director of Finance, the excess
amount collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited against any amounts then
due and payable from the Person from who it was collected or by whom paid, and the
balance may be refunded to such Person, his/her administrators or executors. Filing a,
claim shall be a condition precedent to legal action against the City for a refund of the tax.

325871-1

12

Section 11. MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION.

Any Owner who fails to perform any duty or obligation imposed by this ordinance
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisanment for a period of not more than one year, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.

The penalties provided in this section are in addition to the several remedies
provided in this ordinance, or as may otherwise be provided by law.

Section	12.BOARD	OF REVIEW.

Any person dissatisfied with any decision of the Director of Finance adversely
affecting the rights or interests of such person made by the Director of Finance under the
authority of this ordinance, may appeal therefrom in writing to the Business Tax Board of
Review (the ‘Board") within sixty (60) days from the date of mailing such decision by the
Director. All filings with the Board relating to appeals or otherwise shall be made to the
Chairperson of the Business Tax Board of Review in care of the Revenue Department,
250 Frank Ogawa Plaza, 1st Floor, Oakland, CA 94612. The Board may affirm, modify or
reverse such decision or dismiss the appeal therefrom, as may be just, and shall prescribe
such rules and regulations relating to appeals as it may deem necessary. The Board's
decision on appeal will become final upon mailing notice thereof to the Person appealing
the Board’s decision at such Person’s last koown address shown on the Tax Records.

Any tax, penalty or interest found to be owed is due and payable at the time the
Board’s decision becomes final.

The Board shall approve, modify ord isappnove all forms, rules and regulations
prescribed by the Director of Finance in administration and enforcement of this tax. Such
forms, rules and regulations shall be subject to and be come effective only on such
approval.

All decisions rendered by the Board shall be final, and no further administrative
appeal of these decisions is provided or intended.	!

PART 4. PARKING TAX SURCHARGE	,	;;	■	>.

The Municipal Code is hereby amended to add as set forth below; (section :
numbers and titles are indicated in bold type; additions are indicated by underscoring
and deletions are indicated by strike-through type; portions of the regulations not crted-^
or not shown in underscoring or strike-through type are not changed). Section.4.16,031 -•
of the Municipal Code is hereby added to read as follows:	-	i	,	,..r

4.16.031	Imposition of Surcharge

325871-1

13

Subject to the provisions for the collection of taxes and definitions in this
chapter, there shall be an additional tax of eight and one-half (8 1/2) percent
imposed on the rental of every parking space in a parking station in the Citv.

Bv adopting this ordinance the People of the Citv of Oakland do not
intend to limit or in anvwav curtail anv powers the Citv Council may exercise as to
the subject matter of this ordinance, including, but not limited to. raising the rate of
taxation or surcharge, lowering the rate of taxation or surcharge, eliminating the
tax or surcharge, or creating or defining new categories of taxpayers under this
ordinance.

and be it

RESOLVED: The City Oouncil may designate one er more of its members to
advise the City Attorney regarding the abbreviated statement of measure (ballot
question);

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Council1 of the City of Oakland does
hereby request that the Board of Supervisors of Alameda County order the
consolidation of the Oakland Municipal election with the statewide presidential election
of November 2, 2004, consistent with provisions of State Law; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Council hereby authorizes and directs the
City Clerk of the City of Oakland (the “City Clerk") at least 88 days prior to November 2,

2004, to file with the Alameda County Clerk certified copies of this resolution; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Council does hereby request that the

Board of Supervisors of Alameda County include on the ballots and sample ballots the.................

recitals and measure language contained in this resolution to be voted on by the voters	'	r

of the qualified electors of the City of Oakland; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Clerk is hereby directed to cause the <T -
posting, publication and printing of notices, pursuant to the requirements of the Charter ^ , -f*	•	•

of the City of Oakland, the Government Code end the Elections Code of the State of f ><	-	!-“

California; and be it

FURTHER RESOLVED: T hat the City Council does hereby request that the ■ or r \ •'
Registrar of Voters of the County of Alameda perform necessary services in connection/1 >'	1	>v	•

with said election; and be it	.-c!

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Clerk is hereby directed to obtain printing,
supplies and services as required; and be it	•	•	<	!	•	d	- *	■	t

FURTHER RESOLVED: That the City Clerk is hereby authorized to provide
such other services and supplies in connection with said election as may be required by '' "••
the Statutes ef the State of Californis and the Charter of the City of Oakland; and be it ''>•1' - f ! 1'

325871-1

14

FURTHER RESOLVED: That in accordance with the Elections Code and Chapter
11 of the Oakland Municipal Code, the City Clerk shall fix and determine a date for
submission of arguments for or against said proposed ordinance, and said date shall be
posted in the Office of the City Clerk; and be it

FURTHER .RESOLVED: That the City Clerk and City Administrator are hereby
authorized and directed to take any and all actions necessary under law to prepare for and
conduct the 2004 special election and appropriate all monies necessary for the City
Administrator and City Clerk to prepare and conduct November 2, 2004, general election,
consistent with law.

IN COUNCIL. OAKLAND. CALIFORNIA. JULY . 2004	%	Q	2004

PASSED BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

AYES-	BRUNNER,	CHANG,	NADEL,	QUAN,	REID,	WAN	AND	PRESIDENT	DE	LA	FUENTE

NOES- BtSOOKS-j	7

ABSENT-
ABSTENTION

0

Attest.

CEDA FLOY?

CITY CLERK AND CLERK THE COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA

325871-1

15

Agenda Report

CITY OF OAKLAND

TO: THE HONORABLE MEMBERS	FROM:	LATONDA	SIMMONS

OF THE RULES AND LEGISLATION	CITY CLERK

COMMITTEE AND DEANNA J SANTANA
CITY ADMINISTRATOR

SUBJECT: Ballot Measure Deadlines	DATE: January 23. 2014

For the November 4. 2014 Election

RECOMMENDATION

COUNCIL DISTRICT: Citv-Wide

This is an Informational Report Staff requests the Rules and Legislation Committee receive and
file this report

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

v

At the request of the January 23, 2014 Rules and Legislation Committee-the Office of the City
Clerk was requested to provide information regarding the deadlines for the City Council and/or
citizens to place a measure on the ballot for the November 4, 2014 election

OUTCOME

This informational report responds to the request to present information on deadlines for.placing !
City Council and citizen based initiatives on the ballot of the November 4, 2014 election-:	•>	-

BACKGROUNP/LEGISLATIVE HISTORY	; v -V	i-Ai

Initiatives in the City of Oakland are governed by section 3 08 of the Oakland municipal code
and in great part Division 9 of the California elections code The relevant governing-codes;; '~sj v.
provide that initiatives may be put forward by the governing body or by a citizen based signature “• *■
gathering effort The relevant codes provide significantly different procedures and timelines for
each approach Nonetheless, under each approach, the citizens, governing body, City Attorney,;..
City Auditor and City Clerk, respectively, must complete many additional statutory requirements ’
by the 88th day before the election, to deliver ballot information to the county elections official •- :,

Item_____________

Rules and Legislation Committee
February 6. 2014

Honorable Members of the Rules & Legislation Committee
Subject Elections Deadlines for November 2014
Date January 23, 2014

Page 2

Initiatives by the Governing Body

Measures may be placed on ballot by the governing body in accordance with section 9222 of the
California elections code and must also comply with the noticing requirements of the City of
Oakland's Sunshine Ordinance While section 9222 permits the approval of measures up to the
88lh day before the election by the governing body, consideration must also be given to the full
requirements of the 88lh day pre-elections deadline including the additional steps listed below
(See “Additional Steps on page 3)

In accordance with the relevant provisions of the California State elections code, Oakland
municipal code, and also utilizing the approved schedule of Council meetings for calendar year
2014, the final date for the City Council to approve a measure to be placed on ballot would be
Tuesday, July 29, 2014 Please refer to ‘'Attachment A -Deadline for Council Approval of
Ballot Measures ”

Initiatives by a Citizen Based Signature Gathering Effort

Measures placed on ballot as a result of a citizen based signature gathering effort requires
completion of many steps outlined in the California elections code and the Oakland municipal
code . In general, to successfully meet all requirements, citizens should commence activities
many months in advance of the 88th day elections deadline to allow completion of the
proponent's obligations and allow City officials time to process and produce materials required
by law Please refer to “ AttachmentB - Quick Guide to Ballot Initiatives”.

In summary, the citizen based initiative process is elongated to allow for the following key tasks
associated with a petition effort

1)	File a Notice of intent to Circulate an Initiative

2) Receive the Title and Summary to be used to circulate the petition

3) Publish the full Notice of Intent (NOI) and the Title and Summary	■-r- -

4)	File proof of publication of NOI, Title and Summary with the City Clerk prior to
gathering any signatures

:	5)	Commence signature gathering	..

6)	Return the signed petitions by the deadline provided by the	City Clerk ,	i

7)	Allow the City Clerk to verify the number of signatures are	sufficient	• ’:	r	u-	••

8)	Allow the County to verify the signatures are sufficient ='	• •' •	1 .	-j	>.	!	!.•	r;..

9)	Allow the City Council to place on agenda and certify the sufficiency	of the	signatures	* i

and call for an election	■'	■"	'	'

10)	Allow the City Attorney, Auditor, and Clerk to prepare documents and complete .. .	•

processing of remaining elections documents	"	v	>

Item ,

Rules and Legislation Committee
February 6. 2014

Honorable Members of the Rules & Legislation Committee
Subject Elections Deadlines for November 2014
Date January 23,2014	,	_____

Page 3

Additional Steps

While the 88th day is the permitted final day of action for the governing body, the 88th day also is
the deadline the City must deliver all necessary materials to the county elections official for
printing of the sample ballot book Accordingly, the City must allot sufficient time for the7
development of legally required ballot materials prepared by the City Attorney, City Auditor,
and elections processing by the City Clerk These additional steps prescribed by the governing
codes must be completed whether the initiative is citizen based or put forward by the governing
body The additional steps include

1)	Resolution calling for all election

2)	Resolution approving the placing a measure on the elections ballot, to include the
question to go before voters

3)	Ordinance approving the consolidation of a City’s municipal election with the scheduled
Statewide election (when applicable)

4)	Full text of the measure prepared by the City Attorney

5)	Title and Summary' prepared by the City Attorney

6)	Impartial Legal Analysis prepared by the City Attorney

7)	Impartial Financial Analysis prepared by the City Auditor s

Accordingly, Council actions should occur as early as possible to afford proper development and
review of all ballot materials prior to the 88lh day submission deadline

For questions regarding this report, you may contact LaTonda Simmons orTamika Thomas in
the Office of the City Clerk at (510) 238-3122

Respectfutty submitted;



LATONDA SIMMONS

City Clerk, Office of the City Clerk

Attachments

Attachment A - Deadline for Council Approval of Ballot Measures .
Attachment B - Quick Guide to Ballot Initiatives

Item ____________

Rules and Legislation Committee
February 6, 2014

I

CITY OF OAKLAND

FILED

smce OF THE CITY clerk

OAKLAND

H APR 21, PR 3:39

ONE FRANK OGAWA PLAZA • 2nd FLOOR
Noel Gallo

City Council Member, District 5

OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA 94612

(510) 238-7005
FAX (510) 238-6129
TTY/TDD (510) 839-6451

TO:	Members of the Public Safety Committee

FROMi Councilmember Noel Gallo, Chair of PSC
DATE:	April 29, 2014

RE:	PSC Agenda Item #4: Informational Report On Public Safety Ballot Measures - Supplemental

Dear Council Colleagues,

To date I have endeavored to facilitate a discussion which would inform the development of a safety and
services ballot measure. Staff worked to be responsive to the committee’s request for information which
would aid in the discussion of this important policy. To date staff has brought the committee agenda
items to help inform this committee about programs and strategies that have yielded results and upon
which we might build our contiuued success with a new safety and services ballot measure. As we
continue to move towards the development of ballot measure language, we must review the information
received and begin to turn the discussion towards building on our successes.

REVIEW OF DISCUSSION TO DATE

On March 11, 2014 the Public Safety Committee (PSC) received an explanation of the current Measure
Y with Measure BB amendments which provided for the collection of dedicated parcel taxes and a
parking tax surcharge to fund police staffing, enhance fire safety, and expand violence prevention
programs. The services provided by the measure undergo an annual evaluation by an independent third
party auditor followed by a review of the audit by the Measure Y Oversight Committee. Measure Y
passed in 2004 with 70 percent of the vote. The taxes became effective in January 2005 and expire in
January 2015.

The City currently collects a parcel tax at an annual rate of $97.62 (as of 2014) and collects a parking
surcharge on commercial lots of 8.5 percent. In total, the City collects approximately $21.1 million
annually for Measure Y and provides approximately a $2.2 million General Purpose Fund transfer and
staff support to subsidize Measure Y in order to fund all required services outlined in the measure. The

Item: 4
PSC Comte.

April 29, 2014

funding is split between services for community policing, emergency response (Fire Department), and
prevention and intervention services through Human Services and community partners.

On March 25, 2014 the PSC received information from Research Development Associates (RDA)
regarding Oakland Unite (Measure Y) initiatives and their successes, as well a report on the Ceasefire
Initiative and its impact on violent crime within the last year. The report on the Ceasefire Strategy
provided an update after 15 months of implementation. Throughout the implementation period staff
reported seeing a significant decline in homicides and shootings. The 2013 ealendar year ended with a
28% reduction in homicides and a 16% reduction in shootings. Staff informed us that they had made
many organizational adjustments and partnered extensively with the faith-based community, Oakland
Unite funded service providers, and outside law enforcement agencies. Through the program, the City
and all partners gained a tremendous amount of knowledge about shootings and homicides in Oakland,
which is the focus of this strategy (highlighted in the problem & opportunity analysis section of the
report). The report provided a roadmap of where the City is going and the challenges moving forward,
which included funding gaps.

The Informational Report and Presentation from RDA regarding the Fiscal Year 2012-2013 Oakland
Unite (Measure Y) Violence Prevention Programs presented key findings in the areas of the Oakland
Unite Initiative, Violence Prevention Strategies, and Oakland Unite Programs. RDA looked hack at the
successes and challenges of Oakland Unite Initiatives over the last decade and found that the 13 Oakland
Unite violence prevention strategies provide a wide array of programs and services to a variety of
populations at risk for being victims and perpetrators of violent crime. The major successes identified of
the Oakland Unite initiative and of the violenec prevention strategies include but were not limited to:

-	Increasingly more responsive funding strategies to the City's changing violence prevention
needs;

-	Fostered development of a coordinated infrastructure for violence prevention
Evidence-based practices: Several Oakland Unite strategies are themselves recognized as
evidence based practices, including the Highland Hospital Intervention strategy, provided by
YouthALIVE’s Caught in the Crossfire program, and the Project Choice strategy, provided by
The Mentoring Center and Volunteers of America Bay Area. Beyond these strategies, there is
wide variation in knowledge about the use of evidence-based practices aeross different strategies
and agencies. Programs that have been funded though Oakland Unite for several years tend to
have greater proficiency in EBPs.

The key strengths of the Oakland Unite violence prevention strategies include but are not limited to:

All of the violence prevention straiegies p:ovide intensive servicos to high risk/high need-clients
who might not receive services otherwise

Both within and across the violence prevention strategies, there is a high level of coordination
and communication between different service providers, and between Oakland Unite providers
and City and County agencies (e.g,, the Oakland Unified School District (OIJSD) and the
Alameda County Probation Department (ACPD)

Challenges included: Oakland Unite has too few resources to meet the City's needs; Competing
priorities from different stakeholders have hindered the City's ability to develop and maintain a
consistent vision and effort.

Item: 4
PSC Comte.
April 29, 2014

The Oakland Unite violence prevention strategies face the following challenges: There are limited
resources to help clients address basic needs; in particular, there is a scarcity of safe, affordable, stable
housing for clients, including shelters or other housing for survivors of domestic violence; transitional
housing for individuals coming out of prison or jail; and housing for youth and transition-age youth,
including sexually exploited minors. In addition, there are limited external services, such as substance
abuse treannent and anger management programs, to help Oakland Unite clients address their
rehabilitative needs. Lastly, the limited resources have red to an environment where priorities from
different stakeholders have hindered the City’s ability to develop and maintain a consistent vision and
effort.

The report included an analysis of juvenile probation clients'justice-system involvement prior to and
following their enrollment iri Oakland Umte programs. Across all programs included in the analysis,
RDA found extremely impressive results. In particular: significantly fewer clients were arrested or
adjudicated delinquent following Oakland Unite program participation than before; clients who were
arrested and/or adjudicated delinquent after starting an Oakland Unite program tended to be arrested
and/or adjudicated for less serious offenses than those they previously committed. In particular, these
youth were much less likely to be arrested and/or adjudicated for a violent offense after participating in
an Oakland Unite program than before.

On April 8, 2014 the PSC received an Informational Report on the City wide investments in Public
Safety Initiatives. This report provided a summary of a report from Safe Passages which synthesized
over 30 different reports commissioned by the City over the past ten years that revolve around Public
Safety. The report was designed to provide this committee with high level overview of the investments
to date.

The PSC also received an Informational presentation on the results of a poll conducted by the City’s
consultant hired to provide professional services to assist with the ballot measure development,
community engagement, and polling and data analysis. The polling PowerPoint presentation shown at
that meeting is attached to this report. The poll, which built upon the findings of a previous community
poll, found City of Oakland residents to be overwhelmingly willing to continue to pay the current tax
rate towards a safety and services measure. The poll evaluated voter opinions regarding continuing the
existing tax rate or voter tolerance for an increased tax rate, and gauged reaction to some key programs
and services that could be included in a measure.

Previous polling conducted by community stakeholders showed that a new measure should focus on
outcomes (reducing violent crime land gim violence, improving 9-1-1 response times, etc.). This polling
was used in the priorities for the recent poll conducted. The polling also researched why the community
would or would not support the ballot measure.

STEPS TOWARDS A NEW SAFETY AND SERVICES MEASURE:

PSC will continue ongoing discussions with the community about the content of a: new measure.

ATTACHMENTS:

Attachment 1: Poll results PowerPoint

Item: 4
PSC Comte.
April 29, 2014

/

MARKET
& OPINION
RESEARCH
SERVICES

Telephone Survey of Likely November
2014 Oakland Voters regarding potential

Safety & Service Parcel Tax

Conducted for: The City of Oakland

March, 2014

Methodology

►	Telephone survey of Likely November 2014 Voters in the City of
Oakland

►	Interviewing conducted March 16-March 23, 2014

►	604 total interviews; Margin of Error = + 3.99 pts

— 302 interviews per split sample (MoE + 5.67 pts)

►	Interviewing conducted by trained, professional interviewers In
English, Spanish, and Chinese

EMC 14-5136 City of Oakland |

SrJit Sample Methodology

In order to compare sufpport for a potential renewal with no tax
increase and a potential renewal with a flat dollar amount increase
($98), we used a split-sample methodology whereby half of
respondents (302) heard one potential renewal with no tax
increase throughout the survey and the other half (302) heard the
potential renewal with the $98 tax increase. This allowed us to
obtain an unbiased read on support for each renewal scenario.
Respondents were randomly assigned into one of two groups
(Sample A or Sample B). Both groups are demographically and
geographically representative of likely voters in the District.

EMC 14-5136 City of Oakland \ 3

Key Findings

►	Oakland voters are supportive of a safety and
service parcel tax that will provide continued
funding of Measure Y programs without a tax
increase.

►	Support for this type of measure is high
throughout the city and with various demographic
groups.

►	Reducing gun violence, support for at risk youth
and increasing high school graduation rates are
especially important to voters.

EMC 14-5136 City	|	4

City of Oakland: Right Direction/Wrong Track Over Time

-A-Right direction -*-Wrong track

i-------1------1	i------1--------1	■	i	i	i

.v

^ ^ ^ ^

Q4.	Do you think things in the City of Oakland are generally going in

the right direction, or do you feel that things are pretty seriously off
on the wrong track? Source: Previous data from past EMC polling
in Oakland

EMC 14-5136 City of	5

City of Oakland: Safer or Less Safe than a Year or Two Ago

yjf*

H Safer IB Don't know/Same ■ Less Safe

Q5. Would you say you feel safer today in Oakland than you did a

year or two	ago, or would you say you feel less safe?

EMC 14-5136 City of	6

Ballot Question Wording

Sample A:

To reduce gun violence, robberies, and homicides, improve response and increase
high-school graduation rates, shall the City of Oakland improve police and emergency
response services and provide proven community programs, including dropout prevention,
crisis intervention, job	training/piacement and support for at-risk youth, by collecting a

surcharge on parking lots and a parcel tax subject to annual performance and financial audits
monitored by a citizens oversight committee?

If the olection were held today, would you vote "Yes" ta approve or "No" to reject the
measure?

Sample B:

Without	mcreasing current	tgx rotes, to reduce gun violence, robberies, and homicides,

improve 911 response times, and increase high-school graduation rates, shall the City of
Oakland provide improved police and emergency response services and proven community
programs, including dropout prevention, crisis intervention, job training/piacement and
support for at-risk youth, by	continuing, to collect a surcharge on parking lots and a parcel

tax subject to annual performance and financial audits monitored by a citizens oversight
committee?

If the election were held today, would you vote "Yes" to approve or "No" to reject the
measure?

EMC 14-5136 City of Oakland \ 7

Initial Vote

There is strong support for

* mV,'	ipc

Initial Vote
Heard No Dollar Amount

Heard Ballot
Measure

Heard Ballot Measure with
"Without Increasing Taxes"

77%

■ Yes, approve
sa Und, Lean Yes
m Und/DK
H Und, Lean No
m No, reject

19%

Q6,	Q9, Q10 [SAMPLE A]	Knowing this, if this measure were on the ballot today, would you vote yes

to approve it or no to reject it?

Qll, Q14, Q15 [SAMPLE Bj^Knowmg this, if this measure were on the ballot today, would you vote
yes to approve it or no to reject it?

EMC 14-5136 City of	8

Vote Reasoning

Reasons to Vote No

Taxes are high enough

15%

This is not the solution	14%

There are other/better ways to raise the 7%

Leaders are dishonest

I agree with some of it, disagree 8%

with other parts

(Depend^o^

money

Things don’t seem to get better

2%

Qthj&P;;; ; v'
Don’t know



4%

r

Q7. Why are you likely to vote No on this measure?
Q8. Why are you Undecided on this measure?

EMC 14-5136 City	|	9

Vote After Cost



This public safety and violence prevention measure
includes an annual parcel tax that would increase
homeowner taxes by $98 per year or about $8
dollars a month.

61%

This public safety and violence prevention measure
includes an annual parcel
homeowners in Oakland about $98 a year, or $8
dollars a month.

■	Yes, approve
M Und, Lean Yes
a Und/DK

^ Und, Lean No

■	No, reject

.62%

31%

29%.

T	i	r

Q6,	Q9, Q10 [SAMPLE A] Knowing	this,if this measure were on the ballot today, would you vote yes

to approve it or no to reject it?

Qll,	Q14,Q15 [SAMPLE B] Knowing this, if this measure were on the ballot today, would you vote

yes to approve it or no to reject it?

EMC 14-5136 City	10

Vote After Cost Explanation

/

Homeowners ore currently paying about $98 per year
for a public safety and violence prevention measure that
voters approved in 2004. That measure will expire and
the tax will end. This new measure	new

parcelt°2L of $196per year, or $16 a month.

53%

4%

Heard $196/year

Because this measure will replace an
expiring public safety measure that voters
approved in 2004,	ther

the parceltax rate.

H Yes, approve
ES Und, Lean Yes
a Und/DK
H Und, Lean No
■ No, reject

6%

I

1

Heard No Increase

0.6, Q9, Q10 [SAMPLE A] Knowing this, if this measure were on the ballot today, would you vote yes
to approve it or no to reject it?

Qll,	Q14,Q15 [SAMPLE B] Knowing this, if this measure were on the ballot today, would you vote

yes to approve it or no to reject it?

EMC 14-5136 City of	11

Segmentation based on responses to vote questions.

Sample B only (n=300)	l|PffI|lllp

12

Vote Segmentation by Gender and Age Split

■ Solid Yes ® Likely Yes ■ Possible Yes/Undec. B Likely No

Overall

Men (45%)
Women (55%)

<50 (45%)
50+ (55%)

EMC 14-5136 City of Oakland] 13

Vote Segmentation by Self-ID race and Geography

B Solid Yes I® Likely Yes

Overall

Black/African-American (25%)

White (47%)

Oakland Flats (43%)
Oakland Hills (57%)

s Possible Yes/Undec. m Likely No

EMC 14-5136 City of	14

J

MARKET
& OPINION
RESEARCH
SERVICES

Priorities

Every respondent was read the same fifteen
lists of four items. For each list of four
services, the respondents were asked to
choose the one most important item from
that list.

-	15 questions total

-	Each item appeared 10 times

-	Both question order, and the erder of items
within each question were randomized

This enabled a comparison of all six items,
while significantly reducing respondent
burden by not asking 36 separate questions
comparing only two items at a time.

Priority Items

1.

* *£

R^ueiMgSgunivie)len&,^

2. Improve 911 response
times

" ' :L .*"• 'jtX*	-‘Mw

3.

graduatiomratesv *.

4.	Improve police and
emergency response

6. Improving police-
community relations

/*

EMC 14-5136 City of Oakland | 16

Reducing gun violence

Support for at-risk youth

Increase high school graduation
rates

Improve police and emergency
response

Improve 911 response times

Improving police-community
relations

Q16-Q30.	Of the four things	I just read you, which one would be your

highest priority for funding ?

EMC 14-5136 City of Oakland \ 17

Reducing gun violence

Support for at-risk youth

Increase high school graduation
rates

Improve police and emergency
response

Improve 911 response times

Improving police-community
relations

Q16-Q30. Of the four things / just read you, which one would be your
highest priority for funding?

B Voters in the Oakland Hills
(n—343)

B Voters in the Oakland Flats
(n=260)

urM



EMC 14-5136 City of Oakland \ 18

Reducing gun violence

Support for at-risk youth

Increase high school graduation
rates

Improve police and emergency
response

Improve 911 response times

Improving police-community
relations

■	Self-ID Black/

African American Voters
(n=152)

■	Self-ID White Voters (n=283)

EMC 14-5136 City of	19

Q16-Q30. Of the four things I just read you, which would be your
highest priority for funding?

Priority Ranking Frequency

■li S3g IBWtM BMMMini I I

Number of times chosen (10 is the maximum)

■ 10 ■ 9 ■ 8-7 ■ 6-5 ^ 4-3	2-1	Chosen

Reducing gun violence

Increase high school graduation
rates

Improve police and emergency
response

Support for at-risk youth

Improve 911 response times

Improving police-community
relations

Q16-Q30.	Of the four things I just read you, which would be your

highest priority for funding?

EMC 14-5136 City of	20

S Self-ID African-American Voters (n=152) m Self-ID White Voters (n=283)

Percent

Chosen

Reducing gun violence

Increase high school graduation
rates

Improve police and emergency
response

Support for at-risk youth

Improve 911 response times

Improving police-community
relations

Q16-Q30. Of the four things I just read you, which would be your
highest priority for funding?

EMC 14-5136 City of Oakland \ 21

Priority Ranking Frequency

^ Voters in the Oakland Hills (n=343) B Voters in the Oakland Flats (n=260)

Percent

Chosen

Reducing gun violence

Increase high school graduation
rates

Improve police and emergency
response

Support for at-risk youth

Improve 911 response times

Improving police-community
relations

Q16-Q30. Of the four things I just read you, which one would be your
highest priority for funding?

EMC 14-5136 City of Oakland] 22

.	□	Salary	□ Retirement □ Fringe

Assumptions:	&

Costs are for a Step 3 Police Officer Only, No other ranks are included

Costs do not included O&M (Vehicle, Equipment, etc.)

Costs do not include span of control impacts (need for high rank oversight per the NSA)

Costs do not included required support of civilian personnel or overhead costs

Costs assume an annual 2% Cost of Living Adjustment - Consistent with the average three year outlook in the most recent Five-Year Forecast
Costs assume an annual 7% Increase in Employer Pension Cost - Consistent with the average three year outlook in the most recent Five-Year Forecast
Costs assume an annual 8% Increase in Fringe Benefit Costs - Consistent with the most recent Five-Year Forecast
In light of the above assumptions these costs should NOT be used to estimate the additional cost of adding one Police Officer to OPD

Item:	3

Public Safety Committee
June 24, 2014

Cost to Support Two Fire Engine Companies with $4.0 in Measure Support

■ Safety & Services Measure Support E General Purpose Fund Support

Assumptions:

•	Costs are Personnell only and do not include O&M (Vehicle, Equipment, etc.)

•	Costs do not included required support of civilian personnel or overhead costs

•	Costs assume an annual 2% Cost of Living Adjustment - Consistent with the average three year outlook in the most recent Five-Year Forecast

•	Costs assume an annual 7% Increase in Employer Pension Cost - Consistent with the average three year outlook in the most recent Five-Year Forecast

•	Costs assume an annual 8% Increase in Fringe Benefit Costs - Consistent with the most recent Five-Year Forecast

•	Costs do not assume any increases or savings related to recent negotiations with the Local 55 IAAF.

Item:	3

Public Safety Committee
June 24, 2014

Cost to Support Two Fire Engine Companies with $2.0 in Measure Support

■ Safety & Services Measure Support □ General Purpose Fund Support

Assumptions:

•	Costs are Personnell only and do not include O&M (Vehicle, Equipment, etc.)

•	Costs do not included required support of civilian personnel or overhead costs

•	Costs assume an annual 2% Cost of Living Adjustment - Consistent with the average three year outlook in the most recent Five-Year Forecast

•	Costs assume an annual 7% Increase in Employer Pension Cost - Consistent with the average three year outlook in the most recent Five-Year Forecast

•	Costs assume an annual 8% Increase in Fringe Benefit Costs - Consistent with the most recent Five-Year Forecast

•	Costs do not assume any increases or savings related to recent negotiations with the Local 55 IAAF.

Item:	3

Public Safety Committee
June 24, 2014

Costs of 100 Police Officers Divided between the Measure and the GPF

Number of Step 3 Police Officers Salary and Benefit Costs Supported by the Measure

□ Safety & Services Measure Support □ General Purpose Fund Support

Assumptions:

•	Costs are for Step 3 Police Officers Only No other ranks are included, Costs do not include span of control impacts (need for high rank oversight per the NSA)

•	Costs do not included required support of civilian personnel or overhead costs, Costs do not included O&M (Vehicle, Equipment, etc.)

•	Costs assume an annual 2% Cost of Living Adjustment - Consistent with the average three year outlook in the most recent Five-Year Forecast

•	Costs assume an annual 7% Increase in Employer Pension Cost - Consistent with the average three year outlook in the most recent Five-Year Forecast

•	Costs assume an annual 8% Increase in Fringe Benefit Costs - Consistent with the most recent Five-Year Forecast

Item:	3

Public Safety Committee
June 24, 2014