City of Davis Sales Tax, Measure 0

(June 2014)

Ballot question

The question on the ballot:21

Shall Ordinance No. 2432, which would authorize the City of Davis to reauthorize
and extend the existing half cent sales and use tax for general government purposes
and increase the sales and use tax by an additional half cent, for a combined one cent
tax, through December 31, 2020, be adopted?21

CITY OF DAVIS

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

Measure 0, if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure, will re-authorize and
extend an existing city Vi cent (0.5%) transactions and use tax (i.e. a “sales tax”) that is slated to
sunset on December 31, 2016, and increase this tax by an additional Vi cent, for a total of one
cent (1%). If approved, the one cent sales tax will sunset on December 31, 2020, unless
extended by the voters. Like the current 14 cent sales tax, the one cent sales tax would be a
general tax, meaning that the revenue raised from the tax would go into the City's general fund
and could be used for any legal governmental purpose.

State law, Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9, authorizes the City to levy a local city
transactions and use tax such as the tax submitted to the voters in Measure O so long as the tax is
approved by a two-thirds vote of the members of the City Council and by a majority of the
voters voting in an election on that issue. The current Vi cent sales tax was originally authorized
in June 2004 and reauthorized by a majority of the Davis voters in June 2010 for a six-year
period, ending December 31, 2016.

The current sales tax rate within the City (including all state and local sales taxes) totals 8%,
including the current City Vi cent sales tax. If Measure O is approved by a majority of the voters
voting on this measure, the total sales tax would increase to 8.5%. If Measure O is not approved,
the current 8% sales tax would continue until December 31, 2016, at which time, it would
decrease to 7.5%, unless the Davis voters, at another election, voted to extend the Vi cent sales
tax currently in effect or approve a different city sales tax.

The Vi cent sales tax extension and the additional Vi cent sales tax (total 1%), set forth in
Measure O would sunset and be repealed on December 31, 2020 and could not be collected after
that time unless two-thirds of the City Council place an extension or re-authorization of the tax
on the ballot and a majority of the voters voting in an election approve it.

/S/

Harriet A. Steiner
Davis City Attorney

82499.06001 \8643402.8

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR MEASURE O

Measure O proposes to increase our community’s sales tax to 8.5 percent until 2020. This repre-
sents a one-half cent increase now, and will continue until 2020 an existing one-half cent tax due
to expire in 2016. This modest increase in our sales tax rate will fund essential community needs
that shouldn’t be delayed further, including:

•	Road, sidewalk, bike path, streetlight repairs

•	Parks, landscaping, street tree maintenance

Revenue from this sales tax increase will provide $3.6 million per year toward our current $5.1
million structural budget deficit. With passage, Davis must still cut $1.5 million to balance its
2014-15 budget. Without this measures approval, basic services (including police, fire, parks,
recreation) will suffer severe cuts, up to 12.5 percent. Davis will become a less safe and less
pleasant place to live.

The City Council has recently restructured labor contracts for major cost savings and long-term
fiscal sustainability, with employees paying significantly more toward their retirement. Davis has
decreased its workforce by 22 percent, or 103 full-time employees.

The longer Davis defers major road repairs, parks maintenance, and water conservation projects,
the costlier they become. Davis is aggressively moving forward with economic development to
generate additional tax revenue as a longer-term solution to the city’s budget challenges.

Many cities have implemented similar local sales tax measures: Sacramento’s sales tax is 8.5
percent; San Francisco and Berkeley have higher rates. The economic recession has resulted in
major declines in local tax revenue. Also, the state’s ongoing shift of responsibilities to local
governments, concurrent with shifting property tax revenues away from cities, makes it crucial to
increase local funding for core city functions through sales tax.

Please help us protect the quality of life we all enjoy. Please vote “Yes” on Measure O.

/S/

Dan Wolk, Mayor Pro Tern
Lucas Frerichs, Councilmember
Joseph Krovoza, Mayor
Brett Lee, Councilmember
Rochelle Swanson, Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

The question on the ballot is false and misleading. It states a “half cent” tax. Not true, it is one
half of one percent tax on the price of anything you buy. According to the ballot question, you
will pay “half cent” even if you buy a $30,000 car. The reality is that you will pay half percent
or $150, but since they are doubling the tax with an increase, you will pay $300. This will have
very bad consequences for the businesses in Davis. A total 8.5% sales tax in Davis means the
highest sales tax in Yolo County. People will take their business elsewhere and affect Davis
negatively.

They want to extend the existing tax still in force, avoiding an election in 2016 and denying you
the right to vote YES of NO.

The City Council could spend it on anything. The last time the voters approved a tax for
“general government purposes” in 2004, instead of spending on “Road, sidewalk, bike path,
streetlight repairs, Parks, landscaping, street trees”, they spent it on giving a 36% pay raise to a
group of city employees.

Davis has been a safe city since it was founded and never needed the “half cent tax”, to be safe.
You must get out and vote NO. Otherwise, brace yourself; you will face an increase in your
home mortgage in November as the Council has announced that they will impose on you a new
parcel tax.

More on www.noparceltaxes.org
Vote No on Measure O.

/S/

Janet Zwahlen, Davis Resident

John Smith, Davis Resident

Ernie Head, Yolo County Taxpayers Association

Thomas Randall, Jr., Davis Resident

Jose Granda, No Parcel Taxes Political Action Committee

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

Not Another Unjustified Tax. No on Measure “O”

The Davis City Council has failed to explain why the taxpayers should pay for their
mismanagement of $5.1 million of taxpayer’s money. They needed to explain their spending
habits and why they need you to pay the deficit they created. Why should you approve an
increase in sales tax bringing it to 8.5% and lasting until 2020 for “general government
purposes”? Measures passed in 2004 and 2010 are still in force. Why are they not enough?

They have publically expressed their plan for an increase in Sales Tax in June and a new Parcel
tax in the November election. So brace yourself, if you vote yes on Measure O on June 3, expect
an increase in your mortgage by means of a Parcel Tax in November if that goes through.

It is time to say NO MORE to these politicians. They treat Davis voters as an ATM machine
where there is money available every time they run the budget in the red. If you vote yes to raise
the sales tax, you are voting for them to spend more money and inviting them to charge you
more taxes.

The recent fiasco with the City Manager is an example; paying him a salary of $188,000. He left
Davis for another City that pays him $13,000 less and now the Council has postponed setting up
the salary of the new one pending the result of this election. Not difficult to guess where your
money is going.

Water rates could triple also pending the result of this election creating additional economic
hardship. The same City Council responsible for those water rates is asking you to pay the $5.1
million deficit they created. More information at: www.noparceltaxes.org

Vote No on Measure “O”. No More Money Wasted.

/S/

Janet Zwahlen, Davis Resident

John Smith, Davis Resident

Ernie Head, Yolo County Taxpayers Association

Thomas Randall Jr., Davis Resident

Jose Granda, No Parcel Taxes Political Action Committee

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

If Measure O fails, Davis’ quality of life will be severely compromised.

The opponents to this 14 cent renewal and V2 cent sales tax increase are using scare tactics.
Measure O will NOT put Davis businesses at a competitive disadvantage, since most regional
cities have nearly equal or greater local sales taxes.

As explained in the argument in favor of Measure O, the revenue resulting from this small tax
increase will provide approximately $3.6 million per year in additional revenue, to prevent deep
cuts in city services, and maintain modest levels of funding for road, sidewalk and bike path
repairs. Without this measure’s approval, basic city services including police, fire, parks and
recreation will suffer significant cuts, up to 12.5 percent.

The City Council recently restructured labor contracts for major cost savings and long-term
fiscal sustainability, with employees paying significantly more toward their retirement. Davis
has decreased its workforce by 22 percent, or 103 full-time employees in recent years.

Without the revenue that the Measure O renewal and slight increase in sales tax revenue
provides, the fiscal outlook for the city will be extremely uncertain, and major service cuts will
start to seriously degrade our quality of life.

Davis is known regionally and throughout the country as an unusually fine place to live, work,
and study. Renewing the modest V2 cent sales tax, coupled with a V2 cent increase, until 2020, is
a small price to pay to retain our quality of life.

Please vote Yes on O.

/S/

Ira Bray, Chair, Recreation and Parks Commission

Barbara Archer, Davis Community member

Elaine Roberts Musser, Chair, Davis Senior Citizens Commission

Michael N. Corbett, Former Mayor

ORDINANCE NO. 2432

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DAVIS AMENDING ARTICLE 15.19 OF
CHAPTER 15 OF THE DAVIS MUNICIPAL CODE EXTENDING AND INCREASING
THE EXISTING TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF A MAJORITY OF
THE ELECTORS VOTING ON THE TAX MEASURE AT THE GENERAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, JUNE 3,2014

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code § 7285.9, the City of Davis
(“City”) has the authority to levy a local transactions and use tax for general purposes (“TUT”);
and

WHEREAS, a majority of the City’s voters approved a one-half of one percent (0.5%) TUT
terminating on December 31, 2010 at the election held on March 2, 2004, thus adding Article
15.19 of Chapter 15 to the Davis Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, a majority of the City’s voters approved an extension of the 0.5% TUT termination
date to December 31, 2016 at the election held on June 8, 2010; and

WHEREAS, given the fiscal challenges that the City has faces in recent years, the TUT provides
essential funds for protecting vital City services from further budget cuts; and

WHEREAS, after study of the financial issues facing the City, and after extensive efforts to
gauge the public’s opinions and priorities, the City Council has determined that the most prudent,
reasonable, and financially reasonable action it can take to preserve the fiscal stability of the City
and to protect vital services and facilities in our City, is to place before the voters a ballot
measure to extend the existing 0.5% TUT termination date to December 31, 2020 and to increase
the TUT by a rate of 0.5% also with a termination date of December 31, 2020, for a total TUT of
1 %, and to recommend its adoption to the voters; and

WHEREAS, the proposed extension and increase of the City’s TUT will be submitted to the
voters at the general municipal election on June 3, 2014; and

WHEREAS, if the increased and extended TUT totaling 1% is approved by the City’s voters at
the June 3, 2014 municipal election, the existing 0.5% TUT would remain in effect until the
operative date of the extended and increased TUT.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS DOES HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Code Amendment. Article 15.19 of the Davis Municipal Code is hereby
amended in its entirety and reenacted as follows:

Page 1 of 7

Ordinance No. 2432

ARTICLE 15.19 TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

15.19.010	Title
15.19.020	Operative Date
15.19.030	Purpose
15.19.040	Contract with State
15.19.050	Transactions Tax Rate
15.19.060	Place of Sale
15.19.070	Use Tax Rate
15.19.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law
15.19.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes
15.19.100	Permit Not Required
15.19.110	Exemptions and Exclusions
15.19.120	Amendments
15.19.130	Enjoining Collection Forbidden
15.19.140	Severability
15.19.150	Effective Date
15.19.160	Termination Date

15.19.010 TITLE. This article shall be known as the City of Davis Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance. The City of Davis hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

15.19.020. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

15.19.030. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part
1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt
this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained
in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures

Page 2 of 7

Ordinance No. 2432

followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden
of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

15.19.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration
and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not
have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

15.19.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
City at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

15.19.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

15.19.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

15.19.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby
adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Page 3 of 7

Ordinance No. 2432

15.19.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1. The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase
in Section 6203.

15.19.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall
not be required by this ordinance.

15.19.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

Page 4 of 7

Ordinance No. 2432

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment
to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a
point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease
of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or
other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in

Page 5 of 7

Ordinance No. 2432

Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage,
use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

15.19.120. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however,
that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
ordinance.

Page 6 of 7

Ordinance No. 2432

15.19.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate
or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court
against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

15.19.140. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

15.19.150. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect only if approved by a majority of the
voters voting on the measure at the June 3, 2014 General Municipal Election and shall
become effective ten (10) days after the City Council declares and certifies by resolution the
results of the election and that the measure was approved by a majority of the voters voting
thereon. This ordinance shall then become operative as provided in Section 15.19.020.

15.19.160. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the TUT imposed by this
ordinance shall expire December 31, 2020.

SECTION 2. Notice. The City Clerk is hereby directed to publish this ordinance at least once,
within fifteen (15) days of its adoption, in a newspaper of general circulation published and
circulated in the City of Davis.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Davis on the 11th day of February,
2014, by at least a two-thirds vote of the City Council, as follows:

AYES:	Frerichs,	Lee,	Swanson,	Wolk,	Krovoza

NOES:	None

Mayor

ATTEST:

Page 7 of 7