This Measure E is placed on the ballot by the Milpitas City Council. This
Measure, if approved by a majority of the voters, will adopt an ordinance
amending the Milpitas Municipal Code to authorize one licensed
gambling establishment in the City of Milpitas in compliance with State
law, and impose a card room tax at the rate of 10.5% of gross revenue
as described below.

Gambling in the City is subject to State law and the City's Municipal Code.
Currently, State law prohibits the expansion of legal gambling in cities
that did not allow legal gambling prior to January 1,1996. The proposed
ordinance would allow for legal gambling in the City, provided all of the
following conditions are satisfied: (1) a majority of voters in the City
approves this Measure; (2) State law prohibiting the expansion of legal
gambling expires, is repealed, or is amended to allow legal gambling
within the City boundaries; (3) the requirements of the proposed
ordinance pertaining to the issuance of a card room license have been
satisfied; and (4) such gambling occurs on or after the effective date of
the ordinance.

The proposed ordinance adds Chapter 8 to Title III of the Milpitas
Municipal Code to provide the regulatory framework for the administration
of legal gambling in the City. The proposed ordinance would establish
the procedure for obtaining a card room license, the grounds for approval
or denial of a card room license application, the procedure for obtaining
an employee work permit, audit requirements, and other rules and
regulations necessary for the administration of legal gambling in the City.
Under the proposed ordinance, the card room licensee would pay the City
a card room tax at the rate of 10.5% of gross revenue.

If this Measure is approved and the proposed ordinance becomes
effective, it would allow a maximum of 115 licensed gambling tables in
the City in one licensed card room located in the Recreation and
Entertainment Overlay District located west of Freeway 1-880, south of
the Newby Island landfill site. The People retain the right and power to
amend any provisions in the proposed ordinance. The City Council
retains the right and power, without a vote of the People, to amend any
provisions in the proposed ordinance except the types of games played,
limits on wagers, and a decrease in the number of gambling tables.

A "yes” vote is a vote to authorize one licensed gambling establishment
in the Recreation and Entertainment Overlay District in the City and to
approve a new card room tax at the rate of 10.5% of gross revenue as
described above.

A "no” vote is a vote to not authorize legal gambling in Milpitas and to not
approve a 10.5% tax on gross revenue.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/Michael J. Ogaz
City Attorney, City of Milpitas

We urge "Yes" on Measure E.

Milpitas enjoys one of the lowest city tax rates on residents in the region.
Yet City expenses to provide adequate police, fire, parks, senior services,
youth programs, and street repairs continue to rise. The "belt-tightening"
has been done.

This is not a tax on Milpitas residents.

Yes on Measure E will result in numerous positive benefits for Milpitas:

•	900	jobs,	with	good	pay	and job hiring preferences for Milpitas

residents;

•	New City revenue without taxing residents or small businesses;

•	$8	million	in	new	tax	revenue to fund public services and

improvements, for example, police, fire, parks, water, sewer
and street maintenance;

•	All cardroom tax revenue stays in Milpitas-the State does not
get a dime.

City staff and police management have carefully considered, studied and
analyzed the pros and cons of a cardroom in Milpitas. After a thorough
evaluation, the positive benefits far outweigh the "doomsday'1 concerns
raised.

Yes on Measure E benefits Milpitas because the cardroom will be heavily
regulated, audited and monitored, will bring new tax revenue to our City
without taxing residents, and will be located on the western boundary of
Milpitas in the McCarthy Ranch area near Highway 237-far away from
homes, churches or schools.

Two major cardrooms already exist in San Jose, only a few miles from
our borders. Yes on Measure E permits one of them to move to Milpitas
and provides Milpitas with tax revenue instead of San Jose. This will not
permit any new cardrooms-it just allows an existing one to move here
and let the tax revenue benefit us.

A broad coalition of businesses, labor, the Chamber of Commerce, police
and fire organizations, and former elected officials ask you to join them-
Yes on Measure E.

/s/Jose S. Esteves
Mayor, City of Milpitas

/s/Althea Polanski
Vice Mayor, City of Milpitas

/s/ Eric Emmanuele
President, Milpitas Police Officers Assn.

/s/Reggie Sutton
President, International Association of Firefighters, Local 1699

Isl Elizabeth Ainsworth
President, Milpitas Chamber of Commerce

The organized gambling interests behind this measure evidently
anticipate that they can make some $75 million/year in profit from the
lavish card room proposed. That is where the City of Milpitas gets its
estimate of $8 million/year in revenue to the City. (The City would receive
10.5% of the disclosed "net" gambling income.)

With $75 million per year ($750 million every 10 years) at stake, you
can bet that the organized gambling interests will be spending an
astronomical amount of money on the campaign to get voters to approve
this measure. They can buy supporters.

Milpitas residents have a chance to draw a line, stand up for what's
right and refuse to allow Milpitas to become a haven for organized
gambling and related troubles such as drugs, intoxicated driving,
prostitution (including sex slaves), and more traffic congestion.

Milpitas is no longer the "little cornfield1' that provided our city's
name. We are a modern suburban city in revitalized Silicon Valley.
People from all over the world want to live and work here. We do not
need organized gambling.

Just say NO.

/s/Wouter Dito
Life-long Milpitas resident

In America, most of us believe that legally competent adults should
be free to do whatever they wish-as long as it does not harm others. That
extends to entertainment such as watching sports or other "shows" in
person or on TV.

But America will not prosper-or even survive-on entertainment alone.
America is in debt and every year the federal government spends another
trillion dollars more than it takes in. Gambling will not reduce the debt.

Not only is gambling unproductive, it is addictive to many and
harmful to members of the gambler's family who are often left without
money for the mortgage, the rent or even groceries.

Gambling transfers wealth-generally from players to gambling
operators and their accomplices (sometimes including money-hungry
government agencies). Gambling teaches that money can be obtained
by playing card games-instead of working and adding real value to the
economy.

Just because so-called "Indian" tribes and other jurisdictions offer
gambling does not mean that Milpitas should join the insanity.

In Milpitas, let's encourage productive enterprise-not harmful
activities such as organized gambling.

/s/Wouter Dito
Life-long Milpitas resident

We also strongly urge Yes on Measure E.

The benefits to Milpitas residents:

•	$8 million annually in NEW tax revenue for City services-AND
YOU WONT PAY A PENNY.

•	900 jobs-WITH PREFERENCES FOR MILPITAS RESIDENTS.

•	Located far from Schools, Homes and Churches-near the
Sewage Treatment plant.

Milpitas has the lowest tax rate for city residents of almost every city in
Santa Clara County. But without new revenue, our police, fire, parks,
sewer, streets, senior, youth programs and library hours may decline.

Measure E is a simple choice. Tax a cardroom instead of Milpitas
residents-with 100% of those funds staying here-not a dime to
Sacramento.

Two cardrooms have operated in San Jose for decades-right near our
border. Measure E allows one-AND ONLY ONE-to move here so we
benefit from the tax revenues it generates.

Concerns about crime and gambling have been carefully evaluated by
city staff and police officials. Strict procedures for audits, accountability,
oversight and transparency have been placed into Measure E. We are
confident in Milpitas' ability to monitor, control and regulate a cardroom.
This will not drain city services-instead, this revenue will greatly enhance
your services-without costing you or your family.

Please consider the big picture. Measure E is a unique opportunity to
improve the quality of life for all Milpitas residents without raising your
taxes.

Please join us and a large coalition of your neighbors, small businesses
and civic leaders-Yes on Measure E. www.YesforMilpitas.com

/s/Bob Livengood
Mayor, City of Milpitas (former)

Isl Henry Manayan
Mayor, City of Milpitas (former)

/s/ Pete McHugh
Mayor, City of Milpitas (former)

/s/Rajeev Madnawat
Milpitas Planning Commissioner

/s/Taulafoga Ulu
Milpitas Senior Center Member

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

This Measure E is placed on the ballot by the Milpitas City Council. This
Measure, if approved by a majority of the voters, will adopt an ordinance
amending the Milpitas Municipal Code to authorize one licensed
gambling establishment in the City of Milpitas in compliance with State
law, and impose a card room tax at the rate of 10.5% of gross revenue
as described below.

Gambling in the City is subject to State law and the City's Municipal Code.
Currently, State law prohibits the expansion of legal gambling in cities
that did not allow legal gambling prior to January 1,1996. The proposed
ordinance would allow for legal gambling in the City, provided all of the
following conditions are satisfied: (1) a majority of voters in the City
approves this Measure; (2) State law prohibiting the expansion of legal
gambling expires, is repealed, or is amended to allow legal gambling
within the City boundaries; (3) the requirements of the proposed
ordinance pertaining to the issuance of a card room license have been
satisfied; and (4) such gambling occurs on or after the effective date of
the ordinance.

The proposed ordinance adds Chapter 8 to Title III of the Milpitas
Municipal Code to provide the regulatory framework for the administration
of legal gambling in the City. The proposed ordinance would establish
the procedure for obtaining a card room license, the grounds for approval
or denial of a card room license application, the procedure for obtaining
an employee work permit, audit requirements, and other rules and
regulations necessary for the administration of legal gambling in the City.
Under the proposed ordinance, the card room licensee would pay the City
a card room tax at the rate of 10.5% of gross revenue.

If this Measure is approved and the proposed ordinance becomes
effective, it would allow a maximum of 115 licensed gambling tables in
the City in one licensed card room located in the Recreation and
Entertainment Overlay District located west of Freeway 1-880, south of
the Newby Island landfill site. The People retain the right and power to
amend any provisions in the proposed ordinance. The City Council
retains the right and power, without a vote of the People, to amend any
provisions in the proposed ordinance except the types of games played,
limits on wagers, and a decrease in the number of gambling tables.

A "yes" vote is a vote to authorize one licensed gambling establishment
in the Recreation and Entertainment Overlay District in the City and to
approve a new card room tax at the rate of 10.5% of gross revenue as
described above.

A "no" vote is a vote to not authorize legal gambling in Milpitas and to not
approve a 10.5% tax on gross revenue.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/Michael J. Ogaz
City Attorney, City of Milpitas

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E
ORDINANCE NO. 285

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MILPITAS
APPROVING A LICENSED GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE CITY OF MILPITAS IN ACCORDANCE WITH BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONS CODE SECTION 19960(C) AND IMPOSING
A CARD ROOM TAX AT THE RATE OF TEN AND ONE-HALF
PERCENT (10.5%) OF GROSS REVENUE

The People of the City of Milpitas do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. TITLE

This Act shall be known as "The Milpitas Economic Sustainability and
Stabilization Act."

SECTION 2. RECITALS AND FINDINGS

The City of Milpitas is in the midst of an unprecedented fiscal crisis
caused by the recent recession and cuts in federal and State spending to
support local governments; and

Recent losses in funding have significantly impacted the City of Milpitas
and its ability to provide public safety, street maintenance, recreational
programs, and other general public services, and has degraded the
quality of life of Milpitas residents; and

Since 2009, the City has laid off a total of fifty-four (54) employees
including four (4) firefighters, the total number of funded employee
positions has decreased by approximately twenty-five percent (25%)
including ten (10) police officer positions, and another thirty-eight (38)
employees have either been demoted or "bumped" into other positions;
and

A lack of local funding, inability to generate revenues, and minimal
economic development tools have led to the inability of the City of Milpitas
to invest in critical public infrastructure in the amount of approximately
Two Hundred and Twenty Million Dollars ($220,000,000), consisting of
road, water, sewer, and other public improvements; and

The Milpitas City Council adopted an Entertainment Overlay to its Zoning
Code on April 6, 2010, that would allow for entertainment uses in the
Entertainment Overlay areas including the operation of licensed
Gambling Establishments; and

Many of the existing ninety-six (96) State-licensed card rooms listed on
the Department of Justice's Bureau of Gambling Control's webpage are
significant sources of local tax revenues that can fund staffing, economic
development, and public infrastructure projects, such as those that have
suffered in the City of Milpitas as a result of cuts in the City's budget; and

The State's Gambling Control Act, provisions in the State's Penal Code,
the State's regulations and local gambling ordinances provide
comprehensive regulatory frameworks so that the Gambling Control
Commission, State Department of Justice's Bureau of Gambling Control
and local jurisdictions can ensure that legalized gambling in card rooms
is highly regulated and problem gambling is controlled; and

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 24

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

A licensed Gambling Establishment located in the City of Milpitas will
generate significant sources of tax revenue, potentially up to Ten Million
Dollars ($10,000,000) annually, that will directly benefit its residents,
businesses, and visitors by providing additional public safety services,
street maintenance, recreational programs, and other general public
services; and

California Business and Professions Code Section 19960(c) and Article
XIIIC, Section 2 of the California Constitution require that the voters of a
city must be asked to approve any measure that both permits controlled
gambling within the city and imposes a general tax on gambling revenues
to be paid by the card room operator; and

It is the purpose and intent of the People of Milpitas that this Act go into
effect when State law permits legal gambling in the City of Milpitas; and

Based on the foregoing, the People of the City of Milpitas find it is in the
best interest of the City of Milpitas to approve a ballot measure to add
Chapter 8 to Title III of the Municipal Code regarding issuance of a
License to operate a Card Room in compliance with State law and
imposing a Card Room tax at the rate often and one-half percent (10.5%)
of Gross Revenue.

SECTION 3. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT
(CEQA)

The proposed approval of Ordinance No. 285 by the People of the City
of Milpitas is not a "project" under the California Environmental Quality
Act of 1970 ("CEQA"), as amended, and any implementing local or State
guidelines. Specifically, the proposed action is not a "project" under
CEQA Guidelines Section 15378 because it does not have the potential
to result in either a direct physical change in the environment or a
reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment. The
possibility of any indirect physical change in the environment resulting
from the approval of the ordinance is too speculative to require
environmental review under CEQA because of (a) the need for State
legislation; (b) the need for voter approval; and (c) the need for future
environmental discretionary permits to be approved by the City Council.
Even if all three of these speculative and necessary prerequisites were
to occur, any potential physical changes in the environment would still be
subject to CEQA review in connection with the City Council's
consideration of the required discretionary permits.

The proposed action is also exempt from CEQA under CEQA Guidelines
Section 15061 (b)(3) because it can be seen with certainty that there is no
possibility that the activity in question may have a significant effect on the
environment (for the reasons described in the preceding paragraph).

The proposed action is also exempt from CEQA under CEQA Guidelines
Section 15273 (Rates, Tolls, Fares and Charges) because approval of
the ordinance is to raise revenues for the City of Milpitas to assist in
funding for public safety, capital improvements, recreational programs,
and other general governmental services.

SECTION 4. AMENDMENT OF MILPITAS MUNICIPAL CODE TITLE
III, CHAPTER 8

The Milpitas Municipal Code is hereby amended to add a new Chapter 8
to Title III of the Milpitas Municipal Code and shall read as follows:

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued
Chapter 8 Gambling Control Regulatory Program
Section 1-Authority.

A.	Nothing herein contained is intended or shall be construed
to be in conflict with or as a limitation upon any of the
provisions of the Gambling Control Act (Bus. & Prof. Code
§ 19800 et seq.) or any other provision of State or federal
law.

B.	The provisions of this Chapter shall not be construed so
as to authorize legal gambling within the City's boundaries
unless and until:

1.	A majority of the electors of the City voting thereon,
and in a manner that complies with Business &
Professions Code § 19960(c), affirmatively approves
a measure permitting controlled gambling within the
City; and

2.	California Business & Professions Code § 19962(a):

a.	expires; or

b.	is repealed; or

c.	is amended or partially repealed in a manner
that would permit the City to authorize legal
gambling within its boundaries; or

d.	is superseded by any State or federal law that
permits the City to authorize legal gambling
within its boundaries; and

3.	The requirements of this Chapter pertaining to the
issuance of License have been satisfied.

C.	In no event shall this Chapter be effective until January 1,
2015.

Section 2-Declaration of Intent and Purposes.

The people of the City of Milpitas find and declare that the
regulations of a Gambling Establishment located in the City of
Milpitas are necessary for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. The provisions of this Title shall be broadly
construed for the purposes of authorizing strict regulatory
controls and oversight of a Gambling Establishment, funding
sources, and the practices, activities, Persons and places
associated with or involved in gambling in the City of Milpitas.
Any License, permit, or approval issued pursuant to the
provisions of this Title is a revocable privilege and no holder
acquires any right in the license, permit, or approval other than
the procedural rights granted under this Title or as required by
the United States or California Constitution.

Section 3-Definitions.

For the purposes of this Chapter, the words and phrases
hereinafter set forth shall have the following meanings ascribed

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 25

to them unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:

(a)	"Bureau" means the Bureau of Gambling Control of the
State Department of Justice.

(b)	"Card Room" means a business or enterprise licensed
under the provisions of this Chapter for the playing of
"Games" as defined in this Section.

(c)	"Card Room Administrator" means the Person identified
by the City Manager to administer the City's regulation of
any Licensee.

(d)	"Card Room Business" means the conduct of "Games" as
defined in this Section and shall not include any "Related
Business" as defined in this Section.

(e)	"Chapter" means Chapter 8 of Title III of this Code.

(f)	"Chief of Police" means the designated representative of
the Milpitas Police Department.

(g)	"City" means the City of Milpitas.

(h)	"City Council" means the Milpitas City Council.

(i)	"City Manager" means the City Manager of Milpitas.

(j)	"Clerk" means the City Clerk of Milpitas.

(k)	"Commission" shall mean the California Gambling Control
Commission as detailed in Business and Professions
Code Section 19811 or any successor agency.

(l)	"Employee Applicant" means any Person who has applied
for a work permit or renewal of a work permit for
employment in a Card Room.

(m)	"Financier" means any Person who offers or provides a
loan, credit, or any other form of financing to the Licensee
Applicant or Licensee in any way related to the Card
Room, provided "Financier" shall not be construed to
include any Person with whom License Applicant or
Licensee has an agreement for the lease of equipment or
other personal property.

(n)	"Gambling Establishment" is defined as set forth in
California Business and Professions Code Section
19805(o) and without reference to California Business and
Professions Code Section 19812.

(o)	"Gambling Table" means a table upon which a Game is
played and to which a drop box is attached for the purpose
of collecting fees for the play of the Game.

(p)	"Game" or "Games" means all games (whether or not
involving the use of cards) that are lawful in the State of
California.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

(q)	"Gross Revenue" means all revenue, including table fees,
directly derived from the play of Games by Licensee with
the exception of revenue directly derived from Games
played on a tournament table as part of an official
tournament conducted at the Card Room.

(r)	"License" means a license for the operation of a Card
Room.

(s)	"License Applicant" means any Person who has applied
for a License or renewal of a License to operate a Card
Room in the City.

(t)	"Licensee" means the Person or entity to whom a License
has been issued for the operation of a Card Room
pursuant to this Chapter.

(u)	"Municipal Code" means the Municipal Code of Milpitas.

(v) "Owner" means every Person, firm, association,
corporation, partnership, or other entity having any
interest, whether legal, equitable, financial, or of any other
kind or character, in any Card Room or License.

(w) "Person" means and includes a natural person,
association, organization, partnership, business trust,
company, corporation, or any other entity.

(x)	"Permittee" means the Person to whom an employee work
permit has been issued for employment in a Card Room
pursuant to this Chapter.

(y)	"Related Business" means business activities occurring at
a Card Room other than the playing of the Games, such
as entertainment, dancing, events, fundraising by non-
profits, the sale of food, beverages (including alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises), sundries
and other items and the provision of services such as
barber shop services.

(z)	"State" means the State of California.

Section 4-Maximum Number of Gambling Establishments.

The maximum number of Card Rooms permitted in the City
shall be one (1), unless and until otherwise authorized by a vote
of the people in accordance with State law.

Section 5-License Required.

It is unlawful for any Person to establish, commence, conduct,
operate or otherwise allow or permit within the City any
business, activity, or enterprise of any Games for which a fee,
commission, or other compensation is directly or indirectly
charged, accepted, or received from players or participants
until such Person shall have first obtained a License in full
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.

Section 6-Filing an Application for a Card Room License.

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 26

A.	Filing of Application. Any Person desiring to operate a
Card Room shall file with the Card Room Administrator an
application for a License. The filed application shall be
executed under penalty of perjury and shall contain, in
addition to all other information that the Card Room
Administrator may require, the following information and
material:

1.	A copy of all licenses required by the State of
California under State Gambling Law;

2.	An official receipt from the City treasurer, indicating
receipt of payment in full of the application fee as
required by Section 6.H of this Chapter;

3.	The date of the application;

4.	The true name of the License Applicant, any aliases
of the License Applicant, and any fictitious business
name or names under which the License Applicant
currently operates a business;

5.	The status of the License Applicant as being an
individual (or two or more individuals), firm,
association, corporation, partnership, joint venture or
other entity;

6.	The status of the License Applicant as being eligible
for a License pursuant to any requirements under
State law;

7.	The residence and business address of each
individual License Applicant;

8.	The name, residence, and business address of each
of the partners, shareholders, and principal officers
and directors of any non-individual License Applicant,
including each of the partners, shareholders, and
principal officers and directors of any parent
company, holding company, subsidiary or otherwise
that may in any way be affiliated with the License
Applicant for the License application, License, or
Card Room, except for any publicly held entity;

9.	The business and employment history of the License
Applicant(s) and of each proposed individual listed in
Section 6.A.8, including a list of all places of previous
residence;

10.	The proposed location for the Card Room, although
nothing in this Section shall require that the premises
in which the Card Room Business will take place be
designed, constructed, or completed prior to the
issuance of a License;

11.	A list of the Games proposed to be played initially
upon opening of the Card Room and a statement that
those Games comply with State law;

12.	The number of Game tables proposed to be used in
the Card Room;

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

13.	A description of any Related Businesses proposed to
be conducted at the same location;

14.	In the event the proposed location is partly or wholly
owned by Persons or entities other than the License
Applicant, the names and addresses of such other
Persons or entities and complete information
pertaining to the nature and percentage of ownership;

15.	A one-year detailed cash flow projection, a pro forma
financial statement, a statement of pre-opening cash,
a financing plan and copies of all loan agreements of
the License Applicant;

16.	A full and complete financial statement and most
recent annual income tax return of the License
Applicant, and a full and complete financial and
invested capital statement of each Person who is a
limited partner, general partner, officer or director of
the License Applicant;

17.	A full and complete patron safety and security plan
designed to protect patrons and other Persons who
are lawfully on the Card Room premises;

18.	A full and complete accounting and internal control
plan for card table funds, collection of fees, drop box
and transportation and storage, counting of fees,
cashiers cage operation, internal audit, security and
monitoring, records retention, financial reports, tips,
and signature authority;

19.	A statement that the License Applicant understands
and agrees that the application shall be considered
by the City Council only after full investigations and
reports have been made by all applicable City staff;

20.	A complete listing of all criminal arrests and
convictions of the License Applicant and each
partner, shareholder, officer and director of the
License Applicant, if any, not including traffic
offenses, with explanations therefor;

21.	A statement that the License Applicant understands
and agrees that any business or activity conducted
or operated under any License shall be operated in
full conformity with all the laws of the State and the
laws and regulations of the City applicable thereto,
and that any violation of any such laws and
regulations in such place of business, or in
connection therewith, shall render any License
subject to immediate suspension or revocation;

22.	A statement that the License Applicant has read the
provisions of this Chapter, understands the same
and agrees to abide by all requirements contained in
this Chapter; and

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 27

23.	A statement by the License Applicant agreeing that
the sole and exclusive discretion as to the granting or
denial of any such License shall be vested in the City
Council.

B.	Filina of Business Records. The City will permit License
Applicant to file proprietary business information
confidentially. The confidential portions of the License
application shall remain confidential and shall not be
disclosed to any Person, unless otherwise required by law.
In the event a request is made by a third party for any
information set forth in this Section, the City will provide
the License Applicant or the Licensee with reasonable and
adequate notice to seek a protection from disclosure by a
court of competent jurisdiction.

C.	Burden of Proof. The burden of proving its qualifications
to receive a License is at all times on the License Applicant
by preponderance of the evidence. By filing the
application, the License Applicant accepts any risk of
adverse public notice, embarrassment, criticism, or other
action or financial loss which may result from action with
respect to the application and expressly waives any claim
for damages or otherwise as a result thereof.

D.	Obligation to Provide Information. A License Applicant
may claim any privilege afforded by the Constitution of the
United States in refusing to answer questions by the City
Council, provided any such claim of privilege with respect
to an application shall constitute sufficient grounds for
denial of the application.

E.	Identity of Owners. The License Applicant shall also file
with the Card Room Administrator a list of the names and
addresses of all of the Owners. The Chief of Police shall
determine whether or not an investigation of any Owner
should be made by a teletype search of the records of the
State Criminal Investigation and Identification Unit in
Sacramento, California, or otherwise, and forthwith
conduct said search or investigation as appropriate.

F.	Statements Confidential. All personally identifiable
information, including but not limited to financial
information, telephone numbers and addresses, required
to be submitted as part of an application pursuant to this
Chapter shall be confidential and not available for public
inspection, unless otherwise authorized or required by law.

G.	Finaerprints-Photoaraphs. Concurrently with filing the
application, the License Applicant, each Owner and officer
shall be fingerprinted and photographed by the Chief of
Police.

H.	Control bv Landlord or Financier. The Card Room
Administrator may require the landlord of the Card Room
site or Financier of the Card Room to submit a full
application in compliance with this Chapter.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

I.	Application Fee. The application fee is for regulation
purposes and is levied pursuant to the authority of
applicable laws. An application for a License shall be
accompanied by deposit, payable to the City in cash,
cashier's check, or other immediately available funds
approved by the City, as follows:

1.	An application fee deposit of Five Thousand Dollars
($5,000), which shall be retained by the City as a
deposit for the costs and expenses of the
investigation of the License Applicant and processing
of the License application. License Applicant shall
pay the City the full costs and expenses of the
investigation based on the fully-loaded hourly rate of
the applicable employee or individual performing the
investigative services and processing of the License
application.

Section 7-Investigation of Application and Determination if
License Application is Full and Complete.

A.	Whenever an application for a License has been filed with
the Card Room Administrator, the Card Room
Administrator shall determine whether the filed application
is complete pursuant to this Section 7 of this Chapter. If
the Card Room Administrator determines that the filed
application is complete, the Card Room Administrator
shall promptly refer such application or a copy thereof to
the City Manager's office and other departments of the
City, and promptly and diligently conduct an investigation
to determine if the application is full and complete. Such
matters subject to investigation include:

1.	A full and complete investigation as to the identity,
character, and background of the License Applicant
and the License Applicant's partners, officers,
directors, management and staff including any
partners, officers, directors, management and staff of
any parent company, holding company, subsidiary or
otherwise that may in any way be affiliated with the
License Applicant for the License application,
License or Card Room;

2.	A full and complete evaluation of the security and law
enforcement requirements of the proposed Card
Room;

3.	A comprehensive evaluation of the License
Applicant's financial ability to adequately protect the
patrons of the Card Room and the citizens of the
community; and

4.	A comprehensive evaluation of all public health,
welfare and safety matters concerning the proposed
Card Room.

B.	The Card Room Administrator should determine if the filed
application is full and complete or if the City needs to
supplement the filed application with additional material

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 28

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

within ninety (90) days of receiving the filed application.
Within that time period, the Card Room Administrator or
any other staff delegated an investigative responsibility by
the City Manager may request in writing that the License
Applicant provide additional relevant information or data
not included in the application. The License Applicant
shall submit such requested information within thirty (30)
days after such request. Once all of the requested and
required documents, records, information, data, or
otherwise have been adequately provided, the City shall
inform the License Applicant that the application is full and
complete and will be considered by the City Council.

Section 8-Report and Recommendation to City Council on the
Full and Complete License Application and Investigation.

A.	The City Manager shall prepare and submit a report and
recommendation concerning the full and complete
application and the results of the investigation conducted
pursuant to Section 7.A of this Chapter.

B.	The report and recommendation shall be submitted to the
City Council no later than sixty (60) days from the date
upon which the City Manager has certified the application
is full and complete pursuant to Section 7.B of this Chapter.

C.	Submission of the report and recommendation by the City
Manager shall trigger the notice requirement in Section 9
of this Chapter.

D.	In the event that the City Manager does not file the report
and recommendation within the time specified in Section
8.B of this Chapter, the City Council may either proceed
further without the City Manager's report and
recommendation or may extend one (1) time by an
additional forty-five (45) days the deadline for the City
Manager to submit the report and recommendation to the
City Council.

Section 9-Notice to the Public and Applicant of a Hearing by
City Council to Consider Whether to Issue a License.

A.	Whenever the City Manager submits a report and
recommendation to the City Council on a full and complete
License application and investigation pursuant to Section
8 of this Chapter, or in the event the City Manager does
not file a report and recommendation and the City Council
intends to act upon the application pursuant to Section 8.D
of this Chapter, the City shall publish notice of a public
hearing concerning its intent to consider whether the
License application should be issued at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing date in accordance with
California Government Code Section 6061. The City shall
also provide the License Applicant with notice at least five
(5) days prior to the hearing date. Both the notice to the
public and to the License Applicant will set forth the time
and place of the hearing.

B.	At the hearing, the City Council shall take public testimony.

C.	At the hearing, the City Council shall vote either to:

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

1. Approve the application and grant the License
applied for therein;

2. Approve the application and grant the License
applied for therein with the recommended conditions
from the City Manager;

3.	Conditionally approve the application and grant the
License applied for therein subject to specific
conditions in addition to those conditions set forth in
the application or recommended by the City Manager;
or

4.	Deny the application and refuse to grant the License
applied for therein pursuant to the grounds set forth
in Section 11 .A of this Chapter.

D.	The decision of the City Council shall be final and
conclusive.

Section 10-Approval of a License Application.

A.	If the City Council approves the application, the License
Applicant will be required to comply with all of the terms,
conditions, and obligations in the application, the License,
the provisions of this Chapter, and all other State and
federal laws.

B.	If the City Council approves the application with conditions
not set forth in the application, the License Applicant will
be required to comply with the conditions the City Council
imposed as an express condition of approval of the
application, all of the terms, conditions, and obligations in
the application, the License, the provisions of this Chapter
and all other State and federal laws.

C.	Within ten (10) days of approval of the application, the
Card Room Administrator shall provide to the License
Applicant a copy of the City's acceptance form, which shall
contain any additional conditions imposed by the City
Council and which shall state that the License Applicant is
aware of and will abide by all conditions imposed by the
City Council. Within ten (10) days of receipt of the City's
acceptance form, the Card Room Administrator must
receive the acceptance form signed by the License
Applicant. Upon receipt of the acceptance form signed by
the License Applicant, the Card Room Administrator shall
issue the License.

Section 11-Grounds for Denial of an Application.

A.	The City Council may deny a License application based
on any one or more of the following reasons:

1.	The proposed business or activity to be operated
violates any federal, State or City law or regulation.

2.	The License Applicant, including any shareholder or
officer, has been convicted of any crime punishable

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 29

as a felony (including a plea of no contest) or of any
crime of violence, any crime involving fraud,
gambling, loan sharking, bookmaking, thievery,
bunco, moral turpitude, or any crime involving
evasion of taxes, or any other crime of moral
turpitude indicating a lack of business integrity or
business honesty, whether committed in the State of
California or elsewhere, whether denominated as a
felony or as a misdemeanor and notwithstanding the
passage of time since the conviction.

3.	The License Applicant has been credibly identified by
any law enforcement agency, legislative body or
crime commission as a member of, or an associate
of, organized criminal elements.

4.	The License Applicant knowingly made any false
statement in the filed application or in presenting any
other information as part of the application process
or investigation.

5.	The License Applicant failed to satisfy the City
Council as to the source of funds to be invested in
the Card Room.

6.	The License Applicant does not have the financial
capability or business experience to operate a Card
Room in a manner that would adequately protect the
patrons of the Card Room and the citizens of the
community.

7.	The License Applicant is presently under indictment
or the subject of a criminal complaint for any of the
crimes described in Section 11.A.2 of this Chapter.

8.	The application failed to present reasonable
evidence that there is adequate financing available to
pay potential current obligations and provide
adequate working capital to finance opening of the
proposed Card Room.

9.	The failure of any Person named in the application to
appear before the City Council after having been
requested by the City Council to appear and provide
information or answer questions before it.

10.	The failure to include in the application an adequate
plan for maintaining the security of the Card Room to
ensure that all cash reserves and deposits in the
Card Room, as well as the employees and patrons of
the Card Room, are reasonably safe from theft,
robbery, burglary or other crimes. 11

11.	The proposed location of the Card Room in an area
other than in the Recreation & Entertainment Overlay
District as set forth in Section XI-10-12.07 of the
Municipal Code.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

12.	The Commission has revoked or suspended the
License Applicant's State gambling license or has
denied the License Applicant's application therefor or
denied the application of a shareholder or officer of
the License Applicant.

13.	Approving the License application is contrary to
public interest and the policies of this Chapter.

B.	In the resolution denying the application pursuant to
Section 11 .A of this Chapter, the City Council shall set
forth the ground or grounds for its action.

Section 12-Term, Transfer and Renewal of a Card Room
License.

A.	The term of a Card Room License shall be twenty-five (25)
years from the date on which it was issued.

B.	No Card Room License may be transferred except in
accordance with this Chapter. Any proposed transfer or
assignment of any License, including changes in new
shareholder, partners, or ownership interest of the
Licensee, shall be considered for all purposes as a new
application for a License, and all the provisions of this
Chapter applicable to new and original applications shall
apply.

C.	Not more than one (1) year nor less than six (6) months
prior to the expiration of a License, Licensee may file with
the Card Room Administrator an application for renewal of
the License and pay the applicable renewal fee. In
addition to the information and materials required in
Section 6 of this Chapter, the Licensee shall provide a
statement about its historical compliance with this Chapter,
the License, and State or federal laws. In order to deny
an application for renewal, the City Council must find that
the Licensee is in violation of the terms, conditions, or
obligations of its License or in violation of this Chapter or
State or federal laws when it considers the application for
renewal. In the event that the City Council grants the
application for renewal, the process for acceptance of the
new License described in Section 10.C of this Chapter
shall be complied with.

Section 13-Surrender, Suspension, Revocation or Divestiture
of a Card Room License.

A.	A Licensee may surrender its License by written notice to
the City Manager.

B.	Any License issued under this Chapter may be suspended
or revoked by the City Council for violation of any of the
provisions of the License, this Chapter, or any provisions
of this Municipal Code or of a federal or State law. The
holder of a License shall be given prompt notice of
revocation or suspension of said License. Said notice
shall fix a time and place, not less than five (5) nor more

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 30

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

than thirty (30) days after service thereof, at which time
the holder of said License may appear before the City
Council and be granted a hearing upon the merits of said
suspension or revocation.

C.	Any Licensee or Owner, including shareholders and
officers, who is convicted (or pled no contest) of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or a felony shall
immediately notify the Card Room Administrator and
divest himself/herself of such ownership interest within
thirty (30) days after the service of a notice of divestiture
by the City. Upon receipt of a notice of divestiture, the
Licensee or Owner may request in writing a hearing before
the City Council to appeal the notice and request a waiver
of the divestiture requirement. A hearing shall be
scheduled before the City Council within thirty (30) days
after the receipt of such request. Upon the conclusion of
the hearing, the City Council may disregard the conviction
or take other action if it is determined by the City Council
that mitigating circumstances exist and that the public
interest will be adequately protected. The decision of the
City Council shall be final and conclusive. Failure to
comply with the provisions of this Section 13 shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine or
imprisonment. Each day of noncompliance shall
constitute a separate and complete offense. In addition,
the City Attorney may invoke any appropriate civil
remedies available to enforce compliance. No Person
required pursuant hereto to divest his/her interest in a
Card Room may transfer the same to his/her spouse,
children, siblings, or parents or to his/her spouse's
children, siblings or parents, or any other Person.

Section 14-Where a Card Room May be Located.

A Card Room may only be located in the Recreation &
Entertainment Overlay District as set forth in Section XI-10-
12.07 of the Municipal Code. The location of the Card Room
License shall be site specific and any changes to the approved
location specified in the License shall require an amendment to
the License approved by the City Council.

Section 15-Hours of Operation.

A Card Room is permitted to operate twenty-four (24) hours
each day of the year at the specific location authorized in the
License. Licensee shall have their business hours clearly
posted at all entrances to give law enforcement and patrons
notice of the hours during which the licensed Card Room will
remain open for business.

Section 16-Legal Games.

Any Game permitted by law in the State of California may be
played in a Card Room licensed under this Chapter.

Section 17-Wagering Limits.

There shall be no limit on the size of any bet except as may be
determined by the Licensee and as permitted under State law.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued
Section 18-Maximum Number of Tables.

A.	There shall be no more than one hundred and fifteen (115)
licensed Gambling Tables in the City.

B.	The maximum number of Gambling Tables permitted in
any one (1) Card Room shall be one hundred and fifteen
(115).

Section 19-Removal of Persons and Exclusion of Undesirable
Persons from Card Room Premises.

A.	Removal

1.	A Licensee may remove any Person from, in, on or

about any Licensed Card Room premises if that

Person:

a.	Appears to or otherwise engages or has
engaged in disorderly conduct, as defined in
Section 647 of the California Penal Code;

b.	Appears to or otherwise interferes or has
interfered with a lawful gambling operation;

c.	Appears to or otherwise solicits or has solicited
or engages or has engaged in any act of
prostitution;

d.	Appears to or otherwise is or has been under
the influence of any intoxicating liquor or drug;

e.	Appears to or otherwise has been mentally
incapacitated to the extent that such Person
cannot care for himself/herself or control his/her
actions;

f.	Appears to or otherwise is or has been overly
loud, panhandles, is boisterous, or is otherwise
disturbing or offensive to other Persons in, on or
about the Card Room;

g.	Appears to or otherwise commits or has
committed any public offense;

h.	Is, was or appears to be a Person whose
presence is inimical to the interests of the
Licensee or the business of the Card Room, as
determined by Licensee in its reasonable
discretion;

i.	Is a Person, whose name appears on the list of
Persons the Commission has determined are to
be excluded or ejected from any gaming
establishment pursuant to Business and
Professions Code Section 19844 and any
regulation adopted pursuant thereto;

j.	Has requested, pursuant to Section 12464 of
Title IV of the California Code of Regulations, to
be self-excluded from the Card Room; or

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 31

k.	Has requested, pursuant to Section 12463 of
Title IV of the California Code of Regulations,
that their access to the Card Room be self-
limited and the Licensee, in its reasonable
discretion, determines that removal of the
Person is required to comply with that request.

2.	Except as provided in Section 19.B of this Chapter,
removal of a Person from the premises of a Card
Room pursuant to Section 19 of this Chapter carries
no presumption that the Person is within the class of
Persons defined as "undesirable persons1' in Section
19.B.1 of this Chapter.

B.	Exclusion

1.	A Licensee may exclude from all or any portion of the
premises of a Card Room Premises any Person who
is determined to be "undesirable" within the meaning
of this Section. For the purposes of this Section, the
following Persons shall be deemed to be
"undesirable:"

a.	Persons who have engaged in any act of, or
who have been convicted of bookmaking or
illegal wagering;

b.	Persons who appeared to or otherwise have
engaged in any act prohibited in Section 19.A of
this Chapter;

c.	Persons who have been convicted of or pled no
contest to any violation of Section 337a of the
California Penal Code or any other felony,
misdemeanor or violation relating to the act of
cheating in, on or about the premises of a Card
Room whether or not convicted within or without
the State;

d.	Persons whose presence is inimical to the
interests of the Licensee or the business of the
Card Room, as determined by Licensee in its
reasonable discretion; or

e.	Persons who have requested, pursuant to
Section 12463 of Title IV of the California Code
of Regulations, that their access to the Card
Room be self-limited and whom the Licensee, in
its reasonable discretion, determines must be
excluded in order to comply with that request.

2.	For purposes of this Section:

a.	"Bookmaking" means and includes, but is not
limited to, any act prohibited by Section 337a of
the California Penal Code, or by Section 19595
of the California Business and Professions
Code;

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

b.	"Illegal wagering" includes, but is not limited to,
any act prohibited by Sections 319 through 336,
inclusive, of the California Penal Code.

3.	Licensee shall inform any Person excluded from the
premises of a Card Room of the reason for the
exclusion and shall notify such Person of the
provisions of Section 19 of this Chapter. Notification
of an order of exclusion issued by a Licensee shall
be made by personal delivery to the Person excluded.
A copy of Section 19 of this Chapter shall be attached
to such notification.

4.	Licensee shall immediately notify the Milpitas Police
Department of the name of the Person so excluded
and the reason for the exclusion, and provide such
other information required by the Milpitas Police
department.

5.	No Person named in an order of exclusion shall fail
to comply with the terms of such order. An order of
exclusion shall be enforceable by Licensee by any
lawful means, including a civil injunction proceeding
or other appropriate remedy, in the Santa Clara
County Superior Court or other court of competent
jurisdiction, or by local law enforcement.

6.	A Licensee may also exclude from all or any portion
of the licensed Card Room premises any Person who:

a.	Is a Person, whose name appears on the list of
Persons the Commission has determined are to
be excluded or ejected from any gaming
establishment pursuant to Business and
Professions Code Section 19844 and any
regulation adopted pursuant thereto; or

b.	Has requested, pursuant to Section 12464 of
Title IV of the California Code of Regulations, to
be self-excluded from the Card Room.

c.	Sections 19.B.3, 19.B.4 and 19.B.5 of this
Chapter shall not apply to the exclusion of any
Person pursuant to this Section 19.B.6 of this
Chapter.

C.	Indemnification

Licensee shall protect, indemnify, defend and hold City, its
City Council members, officers, employees, and agents
harmless from and against any and all liability, loss, cost,
demand, and obligation arising out of or relating from any
injury or loss caused directly or indirectly by any cause
whatsoever in connection with or incidental to Licensee
removal or exclusion of any Person pursuant to this
Section 19 of this Chapter.

Section 20-Protection of Minors.

No Licensee or holder of an employee work permit shall
knowingly or willingly permit or allow any Person under the age

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 32

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

of eighteen (18) years to enter upon the premises of a Card
Room premises, or any part thereof, nor shall any Licensee
knowingly or willingly permit or allow any Person under the age
of twenty-one (21) to play any of the Games authorized by the
License. Notwithstanding, Persons under the age of twenty-
one (21) shall be permitted in the following areas:

A.	An area, physically separated from any gambling area, for
the exclusive purpose of dining. For purposes of this
Section, any place where food or beverages are
dispensed primarily by vending machines shall not
constitute a place for dining.

B.	Restrooms.

C.	A supervised room that is physically separated from any
gambling area and used exclusively for the purpose of
entertainment or recreation.

Section 21-Reporting of Criminal Activity and 911 Calls

A.	Owner, Licensee or employee shall immediately make a
report to the Milpitas Police Department upon discovery of
any conduct which raises a reasonable suspicion that a
misdemeanor or felony crime has been committed on the
Card Room premises. In addition, Owner, Licensee or
employee shall report any conduct which raises a
reasonable suspicion of a violation of this Chapter to the
Card Room Administrator within four (4) hours of its
discovery.

B.	Licensee shall maintain a chronological criminal activity
log and such other reports as the Card Room
Administrator may determine are needed in order to
effectively assist the Milpitas Police Department to carry
out its law enforcement function and protect the public
health, safety and welfare.

Section 22-Employee Work Permits.

A.	A Person who desires to be employed by a Card Room in
the City shall obtain an employee work permit. It is
unlawful for any licensed Card Room to employ any
Person who does not have an employee work permit
issued by the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall
maintain a list of all current and past possessors of an
employee work permit.

B.	Each and every independent contractor, vendor, or other
third Person who performs work or services at the Card
Room premises shall be approved by the Chief of Police
prior to commencing any work or services at the Card
Room premises. The Chief of Police, in his/her
reasonable discretion, may require the independent
contractor, vendor, or other third Person to submit an
employee work permit application and follow the process
set forth in this Section 22 of this Chapter and such Person
or Persons together with Persons identified in Section
22.A above, shall be designated Employee Applicants for
purposes of this Section.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

C.	Employee work permits may not be transferred or
assigned in any manner.

D.	Any Person wishing to obtain an employee work permit
from the City shall file an application with the Chief of
Police. The Chief of Police shall process and review all
applications for employee work permits in accordance with
such rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
City in accordance with this Chapter. The application shall
be completed and the Employee Applicant will be required
to provide photographs and fingerprints, in addition to
such other information as the application may require.
The investigation and permitting fee for each prospective
employee shall be determined and approved by the City
Council as part of the City's Schedule of Fees. The
Licensee may reimburse any employee work permit
holder for the amount of the investigation and permitting
fee.

E.	The Chief of Police shall immediately notify the Employee
Applicant, in writing, if the application for an employee
work permit is approved or denied. Fora minimum of one
(1) year from the revocation or denial of an employee work
permit, the Employee Applicant or former Permittee shall
not reapply for an employee work permit absent a change
in facts showing good cause.

F.	The Chief of Police shall, on behalf of the City, promptly
upon receipt of such application, submit the completed
application to the California State Department of Justice.
The State Department of Justice shall provide summary
criminal history information to the Chief of Police for the
purpose of issuing work permits. Upon the receipt by the
Chief of Police of such criminal history information,
provided the criminal history information does not reveal
any grounds set forth in Section 22.G of this Chapter for
denial of an application and the application does not
require any additional investigation as determined by the
Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall approve the
application within thirty (30) days.

G.	The Chief of Police may deny, suspend, or revoke an
employee work permit, provided that such action is based
on one or more of the following reasons:

1.	The Employee Applicant has made any false
statements in the application or any other information
presented as part of the application, or the Employee
Applicant has failed to disclose, misstated or
otherwise misled the City with respect to any fact
contained in any application for a work permit;

2.	The Employee Applicant is less than twenty-one (21)
years of age;

3.	The Employee Applicant has been convicted of, or
failed to disclose a prior conviction of or pled no
contest to, a felony or, in the case of a conviction by
a federal court or a court in another state, a crime that
would constitute a felony if committed in California;

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 33

4.	The Employee Applicant has been convicted of or
pled no contest to, or failed to disclose a prior
conviction of any misdemeanor involving dishonesty
or moral turpitude within the ten-year period
immediately preceding the submission of an
application, unless the Employee Applicant has been
granted relief pursuant to Section 1203.4, 1203.4a,
or 1203.45 of the Penal Code; provided, however,
that the granting of relief pursuant to these sections
shall not constitute a limitation on the discretion of the
City;

5.	Association of the Employee Applicant or employee
with criminal profiteering activity or organized crimes,
as defined by Section 186.2 of the Penal Code;

6.	The Employee Applicant has committed, attempted,
or conspired to do any acts prohibited under the
Gambling Control Act;

7.	The Employee Applicant has committed, attempted,
or conspired to commit, any embezzlement or
larceny against a gambling Licensee or upon the
premises of a Gambling Establishment;

8.	The Employee Applicant has been convicted in any
jurisdiction of, or failed to disclose a prior conviction
of, any offense involving or relating to gambling;

9.	The Employee Applicant has been refused, or failed
to disclose the prior refusal of, the issuance of any
license, permit, or approval to engage in or be
involved with gambling or pari-mutuel wagering in
any jurisdiction, or had the license, permit, or
approval revoked or suspended;

10.	The Employee Applicant has been prohibited under
color of governmental authority, or failed to disclose
a prior prohibition, from being present upon the
premises of any licensed Gambling Establishment
where pari-mutuel wagering is conducted, for any
reason relating to improper gambling activities or any
illegal act; or

11.	Any applicable federal, State or City law or regulation
requires that the application be denied.

H.	The Chief of Police is authorized to issue temporary or
conditional work permit pending a full investigation and
processing of an employee work permit application,
provided such temporary or conditional work permit may
be revoked at any time based on any of the factors set
forth in Section 22.G of this Chapter. A revocation of the
temporary or conditional work permit shall be considered
a denial of the employee work permit application and the
Employee Applicant may appeal such decision as
provided in Section 22 of this Chapter.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

I.	If an application is denied by the Chief of Police, the
Employee Applicant may appeal such denial by written
notice to the Card Room Administrator within ten (10)
calendar days of the denial decision. The Card Room
Administrator shall cause a hearing to be held before a
hearing officer within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of
such written notice requesting an appeal. A reasonable
fee may be charged for the filing of a request for an appeal
in accordance with the City's Schedule of Fees approved
by the City Council. The hearing officer may be an
employee of the City provided the employee was not
involved in the decision to deny the work permit
application and will serve as an independent, neutral
hearing officer. The hearing officer shall schedule and
conduct such hearing in accordance with the rules and
regulations promulgated in Chapter 20 of Title I of the
Municipal Code. At the conclusion of such hearing, the
hearing officer shall issue a decision in writing within
fifteen (15) calendar days which shall reflect either the
hearing officer's approval, conditional approval, or denial
of the application. The hearing officer's decision shall be
final and conclusive.

J.	The Chief of Police may issue an order summarily
suspending or revoking a Person's work permit upon a
finding that the suspension is necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, safety, or general
welfare. The order is effective when served upon the
holder of the permit. An order of summary suspension or
revocation shall state the specific facts upon which the
finding of necessity for the suspension or revocation is
based. An order of summary suspension or revocation
shall remain in effect for no more than thirty (30) calendar
days, or until a final decision is rendered by a hearing
officer appointed by the Card Room Administrator,
whichever occurs last.

K.	In the event that a work permit is suspended or revoked,
the holder of the permit may appeal the determination by
submitting a written request to the Card Room
Administrator no later than ten (10) calendar days from the
date the notice was served upon the holder of the permit.
A reasonable fee may be charged for the filing of a request
for an appeal in accordance with the City's Schedule of
Fees approved by the City Council. Upon receipt of the
written request, the Card Room Administrator shall cause
a hearing to be held before a hearing officer within thirty
(30) calendar days in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Section 22.1 of this Chapter. Failure to submit a
written request for a hearing within the ten (10) calendar
days shall be deemed a waiver of the right of appeal.
Except for an order summarily suspending or revoking a
Person's work permit as described in Section 22.J of this
Chapter, during the time period following the date the
notice of suspension or revocation was issued and any
time period prior to the scheduled appeal hearing date,
any proposed action, including termination of the
employee or any reduction in employee compensation

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 34

shall be stayed pending final determination of the hearing
officer. Upon the final decision or order of the hearing
officer suspending or revoking the permit, the holder of the
permit may petition the Superior Court for the County of
Santa Clara for judicial review pursuant to Section 1094.5
of the Code of Civil Procedure.

L.	When the application for an employee work permit is
approved or conditionally approved, whether by the Chief
of Police or the hearing officer, the City shall promptly
issue an employee work permit to such employee and
shall promptly so advise the Card Room employer in
writing. Once issued, the employee work permit shall
remain valid for a period of up to five (5) years or until it is
revoked, suspended, or surrendered. The employee shall
apply with the Chief of Police for a renewal of the
employee work permit at least sixty (60) days prior to
expiration of the employee work permit and pay the
applicable renewal fee as approved by the City Council as
part of the City's Schedule of Fees.

M.	The employee shall be required to visibly carry the
employee work permit on his or her Person at all times
while working on the licensed Card Room premises. The
employee work permit, or such other evidence of
employment of each employee by the Card Room, shall
be displayed on the Person of such employee in
accordance with the rules established by the Card Room
employer.

N.	When a Licensee terminates the employment of an
employee for any reason whatsoever, the holder of the
employee work permit shall immediately surrender his or
her employee work permit to the Licensee who shall then
promptly remit the same to the City.

O.	When all appeals of the denial, suspension, or revocation
of an employee work permit have concluded, upon final
and conclusive action by the hearing officer, or in the
absence of any appeal, the holder of the employee work
permit shall immediately surrender his or her employee
work permit to the Licensee who shall then remit the same
to the City. Upon the Licensee being advised in writing of
the conclusion of such appeals upon such final and
conclusive action of the hearing officer, or in the absence
of any appeal, the Licensee shall immediately cease to
employ the Employee Applicant at the Card Room.

P.	All information received by the City by means of an
application for an employee work permit shall be treated
as confidential and shall be accessible only to the Card
Room Administrator and/or designee, the Police
Department, the City Attorney, and, if determined
appropriate by the Chief of Police or City Attorney, to the
Permittee or Employee Applicant, or their attorney, unless
otherwise authorized by law.

Q.	Licensee shall keep on file with the Milpitas Police
Department and on the Card Room premises, as to each
employee of the Card Room, a comprehensive employee
list and the following current information:

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

1.	Residence address;

2.	Current occupation and employment;

3.	Age, date of birth, height, weight, color of hair
and eyes;

4.	Driver's license and social security numbers;

5.	A current full face photo of each Owner, officer,
employee, or agent of the Card Room.

The information kept on file at the Card Room Premises
shall be made available on demand for viewing and
copying by the Card Room Administrator or Milpitas Police
Department.

Section 23-Designation of Agent.

A Licensee shall designate an agent or agents who shall be
authorized to act for Licensee with the City.

Section 24-Administration by the City.

A.	The City Manager shall designate a Card Room
Administrator who will manage, coordinate, implement,
and enforce all of the functions, powers and duties as set
forth in this Chapter. The Card Room Administrator shall
report to the City Manager or Police Chief, as the City
Manager deems appropriate.

B.	In conjunction with the City's departments, the Card Room
Administrator shall:

1.	Coordinate the	interaction of all of the City's

department administrators with the Licensee,
including but not limited to the City Manager, the City
Attorney, the head of the Department of Finance and
the Chief of Police.

2.	Investigate the qualifications of License Applicants

and prescribed	all forms to be used for the

investigation of	the qualifications of License

Applicants.

3.	Conduct investigations to:

a.	Determine whether there has been any violation
of this Chapter or of State law.

b.	Determine any facts, conditions, practices, or
matters necessary to the enforcement of this
Chapter.

c.	Aid in promulgating regulations.

4.	Conduct audits	and reviews of Card Room

operations as described in this Chapter to assure
compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and
conduct financial audits and reviews to assure that
revenues are accurately recorded.

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 35

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

5.	In conjunction with the Chief of Police, investigate
and take any actions authorized under this Chapter
regarding all work permit cases affecting the granting,
renewal, suspension, revocation, and addition of
limitations and conditions to any work permit.

6.	Investigate and take any actions authorized under
this Chapter concerning regulatory action against
Card Room Licensees and work Permittees.

7.	Collect all fees imposed by this Chapter.

8.	Perform such other functions and duties and hold
such powers as are specifically conferred elsewhere
in this Chapter.

9.	Perform such other functions related to the
administration of this Chapter as he or she finds
necessary or appropriate.

C.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 24.B of this
Chapter, the Card Room Administrator is not authorized
to conduct criminal investigations. Criminal investigations
shall be conducted separately by the Police Department
and not by the Card Room Administrator.

Section 25-Regulations.

A.	The Card Room Administrator is authorized to promulgate
all regulations necessary to implement the requirements
and fulfill the policies of this Chapter, including, but not
limited to the following subjects:

1.	Prescribe License and work permit application and
renewal application forms and the scope of
information required for licensing and permitting,
including, but not limited to fingerprints, photographs,
releases for criminal arrest, conviction, and other
criminal history information, releases for financial,
credit, business, and employment history, and
certification of applicant responses under penalty of
perjury.

2.	Procedures for investigating all applicants for
Licenses and work permits.

3.	Procedures for Card Rooms to accept negotiable
instruments from patrons.

4.	Procedures for regulatory action on Licenses and
permits, and for suspension, revocation, renewal and
setting of limitations and conditions on work permits.

5.	Procedures for amendments to Licenses and permits.

6.	Minimum security and surveillance controls by Card
Rooms.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

7.	Minimum internal controls for the effective control of
internal Card Room fiscal and operational matters
including, but not limited to the safeguarding of
assets and revenues and maintenance of reliable
records, accounts, and operations.

8.	Periodic financial and compliance reporting to the
Card Room Administrator, including, but not limited
to an annual audit prepared by an independent
certified public accountant or firm, attesting to the
financial condition of the Licensee, to the compliance
of the Licensee with the requirements of this Chapter,
and to the compliance of the Licensee with the
requirements of the Card Room tax under this
Chapter and its ability to accurately record and
calculate the Card Room tax.

9.	Methods to assess and collect fees, late penalties,
and interest.

10.	Criteria and procedures for reporting criminal or
potential illegal activity on Card Room premises or
connected with the operation of a Card Room to the
police department.

11.	Define and limit areas of operation of the Card Room
and the rules of the controlled Games that Card
Rooms are permitted to play under this Chapter.

B.	All the regulations promulgated by the Card Room

Administrator, provisional or final, shall have the force and

effect of law.

Section 26-Visibility and Inspection of Premises.

All rooms in which Games are played shall be accessible and
visible to all patrons. Licensee shall permit the Card Room
Administrator or any City official authorized by the Card Room
Administrator to inspect the entire premises of the Card Room,
including but not limited to Game areas, administrative areas,
security areas, security and surveillance equipment, cash
counting rooms and vaults at any time without a search warrant.

Section 27-Access to Records.

The Licensee shall allow the Card Room Administrator or
his/her designee unrestricted access to inspect, copy, or
otherwise remove all books, records, or security and
surveillance equipment, video or photographs of the Card
Room. Certain books and records are confidential and the
contents thereof shall not become known except to the Persons
charged by law with the administration of the provisions of this
Chapter or pursuant to the order of any court of competent
jurisdiction. All information obtained pursuant to this Chapter,
or any statement or other information filed by Licensee, shall
be treated as confidential and shall not be subject to public
inspection, unless otherwise authorized or required by law.
Notwithstanding, such information may be used in connection
with the enforcement of this Chapter.

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 36

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

Section 28-Patron Safety and Security Plan.

Licensee shall provide and maintain security on the Card Room
premises including the parking area. Licensee shall employ a
professional security staff to monitor the activities on the Card
Room premises and take all reasonable steps necessary to
assure that employees, patrons, and visitors are not involved
in criminal activity or victims of criminal activity.

The Card Room Administrator and/or Chief of Police shall have
the right to require amendments to the patron safety and
security plan approved as part of the License application at any
time that are, in his or her reasonable judgment, necessary to
protect the public peace, health, safety, and welfare.

Section 29-Card Room Tax.

A.	Card Room Tax.

1.	This Section 29.A is enacted solely to raise revenue
for municipal purposes and is not intended for
regulation. Each Licensee shall pay to the City on a
monthly basis a Card Room tax, which shall be at the
rate of ten and one-half percent (10.5%) of the total
monthly Gross Revenue for the preceding month.

2.	Each Licensee shall file with Card Room
Administrator before the tenth day of each calendar
month a report, on a form approved by the Card
Room Administrator, under oath, showing the true
and correct amount of Gross Revenue for the
preceding calendar month. The monthly Card Room
tax required under this Section 29.A, shall be due and
payable on the tenth day of each and every month
following the calculation of the total monthly Gross
Revenue for the previous month. For example, and
by way of illustration only, the Card Room tax
calculated from the monthly Gross Revenue for the
month of June would be due and payable on July
10th and delinquent on July 31 st.

3.	The Card Room Administrator may audit the
Licensee's Gross Revenue as provided in Section 30
of this Chapter to determine whether the Licensee
has accurately reported its Gross Revenue in
accordance with generally accepted accounting
standards and otherwise complied with the
provisions of this subsection. If the Card Room
Administrator determines that the Licensee has
underpaid the Card Room tax imposed by this
Section 29.A.3, she/he shall make a demand for the
amount of the underpayment together with penalty of
two percent (2%) and interest at the underpayment
rate for the period from the date the tax was required
to be paid to the date on which the underpaid amount
was paid. In the case of an underpayment of greater
than ten percent (10%), there shall also be imposed
and added to the amount demanded a penalty in an

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

amount equal to five percent (5%) of the
underpayment, unless it is shown that such
underpayment is due to reasonable cause as solely
determined by the Card Room Administrator. The
Card Room Administrator shall make any demand
under this Section 29.A.3 within three (3) years of the
date the Card Room tax was required to be paid. For
the purposes of this paragraph, the "underpayment
rate" shall mean one-month LIBOR (London
Interbank Offered Rate) as reported by the Wall
Street Journal.

Section 30-Audits.

A.	The Licensee shall submit to the Card Room Administrator
a weekly report of the Gross Revenue of the Card Room.
The weekly report outlining the Gross Revenue for the
prior week shall be submitted to the Card Room
Administrator before 5:00 p.m. of every Monday.

B.	The Licensee shall submit to the Card Room Administrator
an annual financial statement audit. The financial
statement shall be conducted by an independent certified
public accountant licensed to practice in the State of
California and shall be acceptable to the Card Room
Administrator. The financial statement shall be submitted
to the Card Room Administrator within seventy-five (75)
days of the end of every calendar year.

C.	The Card Room Administrator may perform such financial
compliance reviews and oversight of each Licensee as the
Card Room Administrator considers necessary in order to
assure that each Licensee is in full compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter. The Card Room
Administrator is authorized to contract for certified public
accountants or other professionals that the Card Room
Administrator considers necessary in order to conduct any
independent audit or review or any compliance audit or
review of Licensee.

D.	The Card Room Administrator has the right to review and
approve any changes to the Licensee accounting and
internal control plan approved with the License application
before such changes are implemented. The Card Room
Administrator shall have the right to require amendments
to the accounting and internal control plan at any time that
are, in his or her reasonable judgment, necessary to
protect the public peace, health, safety, and welfare.

E.	All weekly reports, annual financial statements, or
documents submitted, provided to or obtained by the Card
Room Administrator or City pursuant to this Section 30 of
this Chapter are proprietary information and shall remain
confidential and not to be disclosed to any Person, unless
otherwise required by law. In the event a request is made
from a third party for any information set forth in this
Section or for any other information provided on a
confidential basis to the City by the Licensee, the City will
provide Licensee with reasonable and adequate notice to
seek a protection from disclosure by a court of competent
jurisdiction.

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 37

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

Section 31-Nondiscrimination—Compliance with Laws and

Regulations.

A.	The Licensee shall not unlawfully discriminate nor permit
any unlawful discrimination in connection with the
operation of the Card Room, including, but not limited to
any unlawful discrimination based upon race, sex, marital
status, age, color, creed, religion, national origin or
ancestry.

B.	The Licensee shall use its best efforts to employ as many
Persons as reasonably possible who live within the City,
who reflect the demographic makeup of the City, and who
otherwise satisfy the employment requirements of the
Card Room. The Licensee may request the City to use
City facilities to obtain employees and shall advertise in
publications that are circulated in the general area of the
Licensee's location.

C.	The Licensee will from time to time, upon request by the
City, furnish to the City reasonable data concerning the
nature of the efforts by the Licensee to otherwise comply
with this Section 31.

Section 32-Amendments.

A.	The People of the City reserve the right and power to
amend any and all provisions of this Chapter. Any
amendment to this Chapter may not violate any provision
of State law or the final judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction.

B.	Subject to the exceptions in this Section 32.B, the City
Council may, without a vote of the electorate, amend any
of the provisions of this Chapter.

1.	The City Council may not limit without the vote of the
electorate:

a.	The types of Games in Section 16 of this
Chapter, or

b.	The limits on wagers in Section 17 of this
Chapter.

2.	The City Council may without the vote of the
electorate:

a. Increase the number of tables that may be
offered in a Card Room or throughout the City
as set forth in Section 18 of this Chapter. Any
increase in the number of tables must be
consistent with State law. The City Council has
no authority to decrease the number of tables
under that Section without the vote of the
electorate.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

Section 33-Prohibited Gambling.

A.	Except as provided in this Chapter, no Person shall deal,
play, carry on, open, cause to be opened, or conduct any
Game prohibited by State or federal law.

B.	It is unlawful for any Person, firm, corporation or
association, owning, leasing, managing, controlling or
having any interest in any property or premises lying within
the City to allow the operation of any Game prohibited by
State or federal law on such property or premises.

Section 34-Responsible Gambling Program for Employees.

A.	Each Licensee shall provide to its employees a
responsible gambling program that will include, at a
minimum, the following elements:

1.	An employee assistance program;

2.	Mandatory referral of employees who appear to be at
risk for compulsive gambling; and

3.	Provision of literature to employees on problem
gambling and a list of referrals to agencies in the San
Francisco Bay Area with programs for problem
gamblers.

B.	Each Licensee shall provide the Card Room Administrator
with an annual plan for a responsible gambling program
that includes the program elements listed in this Section
34 of this Chapter.

C.	No employee of a Card Room Licensee, with the
exception of a proposition player, shall play any
permissible Game during the employee's work hours,
including any paid or unpaid breaks in the employee's
work hours.

D.	No Licensee shall allow, permit, or suffer any employee of
the Licensee, with the exception of proposition player, to
play any permissible Game during the employee's work
hours, including any paid or unpaid breaks in the
employee's work hours.

E.	Each Licensee is encouraged to undertake further efforts
beyond the minimum responsible gambling program
required by this Chapter.

Section 35-Responsible Gambling Program for Patrons.

A. Each Licensee shall make literature on problem or
compulsive gambling easily available in locations visible
to patrons in the Card Room.

B. If literature on problem or compulsive gambling is
reasonably available in English, Spanish, Vietnamese,
Tagalog, Mandarin and/or Cantonese-Chinese, then the
Licensee shall be required to make such literature easily
available.

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 38

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE E-Continued

C.	Each Licensee shall participate in any State-required
responsible gambling program for patrons and make all
required payments to the State to support such programs.

Section 36-Patron Deposit Accounts and Credit

A. No Licensee, employee, funded player or otherwise shall:

1. Provide any loan or credit to any patron including
offering any loan or credit involving currency, checks
or other negotiable instruments, or any other thing of
value or any representation of value.

Section 37-Enforcement.

Violation of any provision of this Chapter may be enforced in
any manner authorized by this Chapter, the Municipal Code, or
in law or equity.

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY

The provisions of this Ordinance are separable, and the invalidity of any
phrase, clause, provision or part shall not affect the validity of the
remainder.

SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE

This Chapter, and all of the provisions thereof, shall become effective as
set forth in Section 1, Chapter 8 of Title III of the Ordinance.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

We urge "Yes" on Measure E.

Milpitas enjoys one of the lowest city tax rates on residents in the region.
Yet City expenses to provide adequate police, fire, parks, senior services,
youth programs, and street repairs continue to rise. The "belt-tightening”
has been done.

This is not a tax on Milpitas residents.

Yes on Measure E will result in numerous positive benefits for Milpitas:

•	900	jobs,	with	good	pay	and job hiring preferences for Milpitas

residents;

•	New City revenue without taxing residents or small businesses;

•	$8	million	in	new	tax	revenue to fund public services and

improvements, for example, police, fire, parks, water, sewer
and street maintenance;

•	All cardroom tax revenue stays in Milpitas-the State does not
get a dime.

City staff and police management have carefully considered, studied and
analyzed the pros and cons of a cardroom in Milpitas. After a thorough
evaluation, the positive benefits far outweigh the "doomsday" concerns
raised.

Yes on Measure E benefits Milpitas because the cardroom will be heavily
regulated, audited and monitored, will bring new tax revenue to our City
without taxing residents, and will be located on the western boundary of
Milpitas in the McCarthy Ranch area near Highway 237-far away from
homes, churches or schools.

Two major cardrooms already exist in San Jose, only a few miles from
our borders. Yes on Measure E permits one of them to move to Milpitas
and provides Milpitas with tax revenue instead of San Jose. This will not
permit any new cardrooms-it just allows an existing one to move here
and let the tax revenue benefit us.

A broad coalition of businesses, labor, the Chamber of Commerce, police
and fire organizations, and former elected officials ask you to join them-
Yes on Measure E.

/s/Jose S. Esteves
Mayor, City of Milpitas

Isl Althea Polanski
Vice Mayor, City of Milpitas

/s/ Eric Emmanuele
President, Milpitas Police Officers Assn.

Isl Reggie Sutton
President, International Association of Firefighters, Local 1699

Isl Elizabeth Ainsworth

President, Milpitas Chamber of Commerce

N SC Ballot Type 180 - Page 39