BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
jurisdiction Name: Qgj^jgp^j Unified School District	tlcclion November 4 2014

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.
Insert ballot question text here:

To reduce the drop-out rate and provide Oakland high school students with
real-world work and learning opportunities; prepare students for admission to the
University of California and other four-year colleges, expand mentoring, tutoring,
counseling, support services, and transition to job training programs,; shall the
Oakland Unified School District levy a $120 parcel tax for ten years, with low
income and senior exemptions, no money for Sacramento, and all money
benefitting Oakland students?

(69 words)

TYPE OF MEASURE

y/ Regular Measure [	|	Bond	Measure

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

66 2/3	%

FULL TEXT OPTION

Fall Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)

| ..[ NO - A Full Text was not submitted

| [nO - Do not print, but it's accessible at__________________________

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

Edgar Rakestraw@ousd.k12.ca.us

EXHIBIT A

MEASURE TEXT

I.	ABBREVIATION OF THE MEASURE

[This summarizes, in 75 words or less,
the full text of the proposition which appears below.]

To reduce the drop-out rate and provide Oakland high school students with real-world
work and learning opportunities; prepare students for admission to the University of California
and other four-year colleges; expand mentoring, tutoring, counseling, support services, and
transition to job training programs; shall the Oakland Unified School District levy a $120 parcel
tax for ten years, with low income and senior exemptions, no money for Sacramento, and all
money benefitting Oakland students?

(69 words)

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

ANALYSIS BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY COUNSEL OF AN
OAKLAND UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE

Measure N, an Oakland Unified School District ("District") special parcel tax measure,
seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy an annual special parcel tax on each parcel
of taxable real property for a period of ten years, beginning July 1, 2015 This measure would
levy an annual tax of $120 00 per parcel of taxable real property

School districts have the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of
the votes cast on the special tax proposal (See Cal Const. Art XIIIA, § 4, Art. XIIIC, § 2; Cal.
Gov’t Code §§ 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 et seq )

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, a special
tax will be imposed annually for ten years at the rate described above The tax will be collected
by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner as
ad valorem property taxes are collected. Upon annual application to the District, an exemption
of any tax assessment year may be granted to any owner of a single-family residential unit
where the taxpayer resides and whose combined family income is at or below the “very low
income” level under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 An exemption is also
available, upon proper application to the District, to any parcel owned and occupied by a person
65 years of age or older

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the
allocation of the funding revenue is to be used for the specific purposes and programs set forth
in the full text of the measure printed in this sample ballot Those purposes and programs are
focused on high-school students throughout the District, and include, but are not limited to
support for college preparatory courses, work-based learning in every high school; support
services to students, such as counseling, tutoring, and mentoring; and transition programs for
students going from 8th to 9th grade and 12th grade to college.

The measure further provides that the governing board will establish a College & Career
Readiness Commission (“Commission”) that will be responsible for planning and oversight.
There will also be an annual report from an independent financial auditor that will state (1) the
amount collected and expended; (2) a description of the programs funded and a determination
of whether the tax proceeds were spent for allowable uses, and (3) a determination of whether
the tax proceeds are being used to supplement, and not supplant, general fund revenue

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the District will not be authorized to levy the special tax.

This measure is placed on the ballot by the governing board of the District.

County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure N, which measure is printed in
full in this sample ballot pamphlet If you desire an additional copy of the measure, please call
the Elections Official's office at (510) 272-6933, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you
You may also access the full text of the measure on the Alameda County website at the
following address www.acqov.org/rov.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Vote YES on N - College and Career Readiness for ALL Oakland public high school students!

•	Successful education programs reduce drop-out rates and help students qualify for admission
to UC and California State systems. We need YES on N for ALL youth who aspire to attend
college. YES on N ensures every student has access to academic courses in English, math,
science and other core programs for admission to a 4-year university.

•	And by preparing youth for high-skill, high-wage jobs in cutting edge industries like
biotechnology, green building, art design and more, YES on N prepares all students for both
entry into college and apprenticeship or job training programs.

YES on N Reduces the Drop-out Rate by expanding the counseling, tutoring, mentoring, and other
support services that keep students at an 84% graduation rate. These programs are currently only
available for a select few, and must be expanded to all Oakland high school students who otherwise
experience a 53% graduation rate.

YES on N reduces drop-out rates.

YES on N offers all high school students real world work and learning opportunities that lead to
college, career, or well-paying jobs.

YES on N expands career education by basing learning on practical projects, not just lectures.

YES on N recruits and retains experienced, effective teachers and counselors.

By law, YES on N ensures all money benefits local Oakland high school students - not a dime can be
taken by Sacramento. A 5-member Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee with expertise in
financial audits will review all spending. Seniors and low-income residents are exempt from
Measure N. Measure N expires in 10 years unless renewed by voters.

Join new superintendent Antwan Wilson and the community in supporting YES on N!

To join our Coalition, visit: YesonNCollegeandCareerforAll.com

/s/ Dr. Gary Yee

Superintendent, Oakland Unified School District (retired)

/s/ Karen Friedman

Co-President, Peralta Colleges Foundation Board and Redwood Heights resident
/s/ Emiliano Sanchez

Principal, Fremont High School
/s/ Anya Gurholt

Former Skyline High School Academy Director and Assistant Principal
/s/ Chel Toscano

MetWest High School graduate and U.C. Berkeley student

Direct Argument Signers
For Measure N

Argument In Favor:

1.	Dr. Gary Yee

Superintendent, Oakland Unified School District (retired)

2.	Karen Friedman

Co-President, Peralta Colleges Foundation Board and Redwood Heights resident

3.	Emiliano Sanchez
Principal, Fremont High School

4.	Anya Gurholt

Former Skyline High School Academy Director and Assistant Principal

5.	Chel Toscano

MetWest High School graduate and U.C. Berkeley student

II. FULL TEXT OF THE MEASURE

BEGINNING OF FULL TEXT OF MEASURE------»»»

OAKLAND UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
COLLEGE AND CAREER READINESS FOR ALL ACT

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Oakland Unified School

District College and Career Readiness for All Act” or as “Measure_[designation to be

assigned by County Registrar of Voters]

FINDINGS

The Oakland Unified School District (the “District”) is determined to provide
excellent educational programs to all its students, including academic courses in English, math,
science, and other core programs that allow them to qualify for admission to the University of
California and State University systems.

Improving student access to college preparatory classes, career-based learning
opportunities, and support programs for students transitioning to high school and college are
essential elements of the District’s initiative to deliver educational excellence.

Educational excellence also requires counseling, tutoring, mentoring and other
intensive support services to reduce the drop-out rate and help students struggling to graduate
from high school.

Students who do not attend college should be prepared for the transition to work
by career education programs that offer practical experience leading to apprenticeships, job
training, and well-paying jobs in a competitive job market.

Funding from the State of California (the “State”) has not been adequate to meet
these goals, and the District has no assurance that State funding will permit the District to meet
these goals in the future.

Funding from the Federal Government is insufficient to meet these goals, and the
District has no assurance that Federal funding will permit the District to meet these goals in the
future.

TERMS AND SUNSET

Upon approval of two thirds of those voting on this Oakland Unified School
District College and Career Readiness for All Act, the Board of Education of the District shall be
authorized to levy a qualified special tax on each parcel of taxable real property in the District, in
the maximum annual amount of $120 for ten years, commencing July 1, 2015.

OHSUSA:757706590.7

PURPOSE

The Oakland College & Career Readiness For All Fund is established to pay for
the implementation of a comprehensive approach to high school education in Oakland that
integrates challenging academics with career-based learning and real-world work experiences.
This comprehensive approach creates small learning communities of career-oriented pathways,
and offers intensive, individualized support to create the conditions for all students to graduate
high school prepared to succeed in college and career.

GOALS

•	Decrease the high school drop-out rate.

•	Increase the high school graduation rate.

•	Increase high school students’ readiness to succeed in college and career.

•	Increase middle school students’ successful transition to high school.

•	Reduce disparities in student achievement and student access to career pathways based on
race, ethnicity, gender, socio-economic status, English Learner-status, special needs-
status, and residency.

EDUCATION SPENDING PLAN

No less than 90% of measure proceeds shall be equitably allocated for education
programs (not administrative overhead) on a per pupil basis, for students in grades 9 through 12
enrolled in all current Oakland Unified School District schools and charter schools, and new
Oakland Unified School District schools and charter schools authorized by the Oakland Unified
School District. Measure proceeds shall be distributed to such schools upon the submission,
review, and approval of each school’s annual education improvement plan. The goal of the
education improvement plan must be to equitably place all students in career pathways or
academies that deliver challenging academics, career technical education, work-based learning,
and personalized academic, social, and emotional support services. An approved education
improvement plan shall include, at minimum:

•	Completion of a diagnostic self-evaluation of the school’s needs to implement the full
continuum of an integrated college and career preparation program for all students.

•	Annual and Three-Year accountability indicators toward achieving the stated purpose and
goals of this Measure.

•	Evidence-based strategies designed to meet the accountability indicators.

•	Annual benchmarks for the implementation of new or enhanced structures and systems
that equitably place all students in career pathways or academies.

OHSUSA:757706590.7

2

• Description of how school staff, time schedules, and budgets are coherently structured to
implement the school improvement plan’s strategies and activities.

No more than ten percent (10%) of measure proceeds each year shall be used by the
Oakland Unified School District to administer the College & Career Readiness For All Fund,
including, but not limited to project staffing, school quality reviews, independent audit services,
and an evaluation of the Fund’s progress toward achieving its stated purpose, goals, and
allowable uses.

PERMISSIBLE USES

Measure proceeds shall be spent on the following school programs:

•	To increase support for students in college preparatory courses in every high school to
ensure students are qualified for admission to the University of California and other 4-
year university systems, and are prepared to succeed in college;

•	To provide work-based learning in every high school, including career exploration, career
technical education courses, job shadowing, internships and job certifications;

•	To reduce the drop-out rate by providing counseling, tutoring, mentoring and other
intensive support services to students in danger of not graduating high school;

• To provide programs to students transitioning from 8th to 9th grade to prepare them to
succeed in high school, and to students transitioning from 12th grade to college to
prepare them for admission to and success in college.

3

SENIOR CITIZEN EXEMPTION

In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community, any parcel
owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt from the education
parcel tax upon proper application to the District. The exemption shall be available pursuant to
procedures to be prescribed by the Board of Education or otherwise as required by law or by the
Alameda County Tax Collector.

LOW INCOME EXEMPTION

An exemption from this tax shall be made for owners of single family residential
units in which they reside whose combined family income from all sources for the previous
calendar year is at or below the income level qualifying as “very low income” for a family of
such size under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437
et seq. for each year. Owners must apply for this exemption annually by petition to the Office of
the Chief Financial Officer of the District in the manner and at the time set forth in procedures
established by the District. Such petitions shall be on forms available from the Chief Financial
Officer’s office and must provide information sufficient to verify income including, but not
limited to, federal income tax returns and W-2 forms of owner-occupants.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

College & Career Readiness Commission. The Board of Education shall establish
a College & Career Readiness Commission comprised of five (5) persons who demonstrate
extensive knowledge and expertise in high school and postsecondary curriculum, instruction, and
leadership; education research, evaluation, and analytics; and financial management and audits.
The College & Career Readiness Commission shall advise and report to the Board of Education
and shall be responsible for (1) Planning, which includes (a) reviewing each high school’s
School Quality Review findings, Balanced Scorecard results, and education improvement plans,
and (b) submitting school funding recommendations to the Board of Education for action; and
(2) Oversight, which includes (a) oversight of proper allocation and use of all parcel tax monies,

(b)	reviewing annual independent audit reports, and (c) submitting recommendations to the
Board of Education for any new or modified policies and administrative regulations to ensure the
Oakland Unified School District’s compliance with the requirements and intent of this Measure.
The Board of Education shall provide by resolution for the composition, funding, staffing, and
other necessary information regarding the Commission’s formation and operation.

PUBLISHED INDEPENDENT ANNUAL AUDIT.

Upon the levy and collection of the education parcel tax, the Board of Education
shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to Government
Code Section 50075.1. For so long as any proceeds remain unexpended, the Superintendent or
the Chief Financial Officer of the District shall cause an independent financial auditor to prepare
a report to be filed with the Board of Education and made publicly available no later than
December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2016, stating (1) the amount collected
and expended in such year; (2) the description of all programs funded, and a determination that
the monies expended were for the allowable uses stated in this Measure; and (3) the

OHSUSA:757706590.7

4

determination that the monies from this Measure are being used to supplement, and not supplant,
unrestricted general fund revenue so appropriated to schools to serve pupils in grades 9 through
12 based on fiscal year 2014-2015 funding. The cost of said Independent Audit may be paid
from the proceeds of the parcel tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or
other appropriate annual period, as said officer shall determine, and may be incorporated into or
filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board of Education.

SECURITY FROM STATE SEIZURE OR USE

If, in any fiscal year during the term of the education parcel tax, the State
Legislature or Governor shall approve any law or take any action the effect of which shall be to
deprive the District of the benefit of any proceeds of the education parcel tax, whether by
directly taking such proceeds for any State purpose or by taking such proceeds into account for
purposes of calculating State support of the District under Section 8 of Article XVI or under any
program of categorical aid, special aid or other special programs, then the Board of Education
shall reduce the rate of the education parcel tax commensurately.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The education parcel tax shall be collected by the Alameda County Tax Collector
at the same time and in the same manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem
property taxes collected by the Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as
the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in
the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Alameda
County Tax Collector. “Parcel of taxable real property” shall exclude all parcels which are
otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year, and all
parcels which qualify for the senior citizen exemption provided by this Oakland College and
Career Readiness for All Act.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels to the Alameda County tax
collection officials which the District has approved for an exemption in accordance with this Act.
Eligibility for the senior citizen exemption and low income exemption shall be determined solely
by the District, and any taxpayer wishing to challenge the District’s determination, or claim a
refund or reimbursement of taxes paid while eligible for the exemption, shall apply directly to
the District.

The Alameda County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any
reason of any parcel from taxation, other than through the senior citizen exemption and low-
income exemption, shall be final and binding for the purposes of the education parcel tax.
Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the
procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Part 9 of Division 1 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a
refund of any tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to
the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

5

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters, by approving this
Oakland College and Career Readiness for All Act, concur, that every section, paragraph,
sentence and clause of this Act has independent value, and the Board of Education and the voters
would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon
approval of this Act by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the
fullest extent allowed by law.

««<----------end OF FULL TEXT OF MEASURE.

OHSUSA:757706590.7

6