COUNTY MEASURE

PAGE

8

184 yes-

185 no-

SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, GANG PREVENTION,

D	YOUTH/SENIOR RECREATION, BEACHES/WILDLIFE PROTECTION

1	MEASURE. To ensure continued funding from	an expiring

voter-approved measure for improving the safety of neighborhood parks and
senior/youth recreation areas; assisting in gang prevention; protecting rivers, beaches, water sources;
repairing, acquiring/preserving parks/natural areas; maintaining zoos, museums; providing youth job-training,
shall Los Angeles County levy an annual $23/parcel special tax, requiring annual independent financial audits
and all funds used locally?________________________________________________________________

O

:0

END OF BALLOT

08-004

N LA 214-013

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

By Richard D. Weiss, Acting County Counsel

Approval of Measure P would authorize the County of Los Angeles (“County”)
to levy a Special Tax (“Tax”) of $23 per parcel of land located in the County.
Parcel is defined as any unit of real property that receives an annual secured
property tax bill from the County Treasurer and Tax Collector. The Tax would
be levied for 30 years beginning on July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2045. The
Measure was placed on the ballot by resolution of the County Board of
Supervisors (“Board”).

In 1992 and 1996, voters approved an annual assessment on parcels of real
property within the County for the purpose of development, acquisition,
improvement, restoration and maintenance of parks, recreational, cultural
and community facilities, and open space lands within the County. The
1992 assessment raises approximately $52,000,000 per year and expires on
June 30, 2015. The 1996 assessment raises approximately $28,000,000 per year
and expires on June 30, 2019. This Measure is intended to replace the funding
provided by the expiring 1992 and 1996 assessments.

The Tax proceeds from this Measure will be used to improve, acquire and
develop park and recreation facilities in neighborhoods throughout the County.
The allocation and associated purposes of the Tax include, but are not limited to:
20% to cities and unincorporated County areas, apportioned on a per parcel
basis, for park and recreation facilities and park safety improvements; 15% to the
County for County parks, beaches and clean water/park projects; 30% to the
County for regional projects and open space, foothill, mountain, trail, river,
wetland and stream projects; 10% to the County for increasing open space and
recreational opportunities in underserved communities; 5% for competitive
grants to public agencies and non-profit organizations for projects such as trails,
senior citizen/youth facilities, urban tree planting, graffiti prevention, river and
stream recreation, and natural land restoration, with priority being given to
proposals that employ local youth and at-risk youth; 15% for maintenance and
servicing of the projects funded by the 1992 and 1996 assessments and this
Measure; and 5% for administration.

All laws and procedures for administration and collection of ad valorem property
taxes shall apply to this Measure, and the Tax shall be collected by the Los
Angeles County Treasurer and Tax Collector at the same time and manner as ad
valorem property taxes. Properties owned by government agencies and also
devoted to a public use will not be subject to the Tax. The Tax shall become a
lien upon each parcel and is subject to the same penalties imposed for unpaid ad
valorem property taxes in the event the Tax is not paid.

(Continued on the next page)

N LA 214-023

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P (Continued)

The Board shall comply with Government Code section 50075.1 accountability
measures including, but not limited to, indicating the specific purposes of the Tax
and requiring that Tax proceeds be used only for those purposes; creating an
account within which the Tax proceeds shall be deposited; and causing an annual
report and independent financial analysis to be prepared reporting all revenues
and expenditures of the Tax.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-003735-2

N LA 214-024

Safe Neighborhood Parks, Gang Prevention, Youth/Senior Recreation,
Beaches/Wildlife Protection Measure

Vote YES on PROPOSITION P!

This measure continues an expiring voter-approved local funding measure for
city, county and neighborhood parks/recreation centers that will:

-	Provide safe neighborhood parks for our children, seniors and other residents

-	Reduce gang activity by providing recreational and job training alternatives
for at-risk youth

-	Repair, upgrade, maintain and improve our parks/recreation centers

-	Protect our beaches and drinking water and improve water quality in our
creeks, rivers and bays

-	Require mandatory oversight of all funds
Give children safe places to play

Proposition P provides neighborhood parks with necessary equipment and
facilities to ensure after-school youth programs remain safe. These healthy
recreational and educational alternatives are used by thousands of youth,
keeping them off the streets and away from gangs, drugs and vandalism.

Repair and upgrade our neighborhood parks/recreation centers
Proposition P repairs and upgrades outdated and unsafe equipment and
park/recreational infrastructure, which suffers from termite damage, mold, leaky
roofs, poor drainage and unsafe lighting, especially in neighborhoods with the
greatest needs.

Protect local water quality, sources and supplies

Proposition P protects local drinking water sources, ensures drinking water is
safe at parks/recreation areas and protects our waterways from toxic pollutants
that wash onto our beaches, causing residents to get stomach flu, fever and other
illnesses each year.

Fiscal accountability

Proposition P requires (by law) annual independent financial audits and public
review of expenditures. No money for Sacramento, all funds controlled locally
and every community gets its fair share.

(Continued on next page)

N LA 214-025

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P (Continued)

Proposition P continues funding from the expiring measure. Losing this funding
means tens of millions of dollars in cuts to our park/recreation programs. There
is no other countywide source of money for park repairs, upgrades and
improvements.

Join us in voting YES on PROPOSITION P!

JACKIE LACEY	REV.	GREGORY	J.	BOYLE,	S.J.

District Attorney, Los Angeles County Homeboy Industries Youth Job

Training

RICHARD LICHTENSTEIN	BELINDA	V.	FAUSTINOS

Co-Chair, Greater L.A. Zoo Association Retired Executive Director, Rivers

& Mountains Conservancy

ZEV YAROSLAVSKY

Los Angeles County Supervisor, District Three

N LA 214-026

Safe Neighborhood Parks, Gang Prevention, Youth/Senior Recreation,
Beaches/Wildlife Protection Measure

PROPOSITION P will not reduce crime!

Proponents want you to believe that without this new tax our County parks and
recreational programs will be in trouble. Not true! In fact, we currently have
$150 million in unallocated park funds! The County park system will not face
budget cuts without this tax. It is irresponsible to saddle you with another tax
increase when there is no plan to spend all the money from the previous tax!

Remember, this measure is not a continuation of an expiring tax. It is a new tax
on all property owners in L.A. County.

Property owners already pay for two park measures. One that passed in 1992 and
another passed in 1996, which does not expire until 2018 and generates over $28
million annually.

This new tax was rushed to voters without any public outreach, input or
discussion.

Before increasing taxes, we need to research park needs and present voters with
a comprehensive plan guaranteeing equitable distribution of the funds for
specific projects throughout the county. Proposition P does not do this!

Parks are vital to enhancing the quality of life for our county residents. However,
residents should not be taxed again until there is a plan to spend all the
unallocated revenues.

Join us in voting against excessive taxes and vote NO on Proposition P.

BISHOP HENRY HEARNS

DR. SANDRA E. THOMAS
NAACP State Exec. Bd.

MIKE SPENCE

Councilman, City of West Covina

DON FLEMING
Businessman

DR. CHRISTOPHER LIN
Educator/Businessman/Banker

N LA 214-027

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

Measure P is a new tax.

All County residents already pay two park taxes

Now is not the time for a new 30 year tax when the Parks Department already
has over $150 million in unspent funds from previous park taxes that voters will
continue to pay through 2018.

Before saddling tax payers with yet another new tax, we need a comprehensive
plan to spend existing unallocated revenues and a proposal to specify the need
for new revenue.

The 2016 election will provide ample time to enlist full public support for an
equitable tax plan to fund county projects - two years ahead of the 2018 deadline
when the existing tax expires.

Parks are a vital component in enhancing the quality of life for our county
residents. However Measure P is a flawed proposal that rushes voters into a $1.6
billion tax hike over 30 years.

Vote no on Measure P

RICKEY GELB

GELB Group, A Family of Companies, San Fernando Valley

JOHN J. KENNEDY
City Councilmember
City of Pasadena

JOHN G. CARLSON
Carlson & Associates

MELVIN WILSON

Mel Wilson & Associates-Realtors

MICHAEL ANTONOVICH
Los Angeles County Supervisor

PR-003735-6

N LA 214-028

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

Vote Yes on Measure P

The voter-approved Safe Neighborhood Parks and Gang Prevention measure,
which has provided critical funds to repair, upgrade, and improve our
neighborhood parks/recreation centers, is set to expire next June. This means our
communities will lose tens of millions of dollars annually, resulting in reduction
or elimination of ongoing repairs and upgrades to our parks/recreational centers
and cuts to park programs; including those in parks with the greatest needs.

Measure P simply continues the expiring voter-approved funding so that our
communities can:

-	Provide safe neighborhood parks for our children, seniors and other residents

-	Reduce gang activity by providing recreational and job training alternatives for
at-risk youth

-	Protect our beaches and drinking water sources, and improve water quality in
our creeks, rivers and bays

This measure will continue to fund needed upgrades to neighborhood parks’
outdated and unsafe playground equipment; remove mold, asbestos and lead
paint; repair leaky roofs, decaying walls and poor drainage; upgrade security
lighting; and improve accessibility for the disabled and seniors.

It will also ensure annual independent financial audits to determine that all funds
are spent locally, efficiently and effectively.

By law, funds from the new measure cannot be collected until five months after
the current measure ends. Therefore, it simply continues voter-approved revenue
that we are already paying.

“Parks are a vital component in enhancing the quality of life for our county
residents.” This is why it is so critical that we vote Yes on Measure P.

JACKIE LACEY	GLORIA MOLINA

District Attorney, Los Angeles County Los Angeles County Supervisor,

First District

BLANCA E. CASTRO	DIANA	POLLARD

California Advocacy Director, AARP Board Member, People for Parks

BRUCE SAITO
Executive Director Emeritus,

LA Conservation Corps Youth Job Training Program

N LA 214-029