ROSS SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE E

MEASURE E: Ross School District	YES

Special Parcel Tax. To support high -------------

quality, innovative academic pro-	no

grams; attract and retain highly qualified -------------

teachers; maintain low student-to-teacher ratios; support
the visual and performing arts and technology integra-
tion; and offset funding cuts by the State; shall the Ross
School District renew its existing education parcel tax for
eight years, with a one-time increase of $184, maintain-
ing 3% annual adjustments, all funds staying local, with
exemptions for property owners aged 65 and older?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE E

ROSS SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX RENEWAL
AND INCREASE TO PRESERVE QUALITY OF PUBLIC
EDUCATION AND SERVICES

This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of
Trustees of the Ross School District.

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
Ross School District will be authorized to increase the
existing school parcel tax by one hundred eighty-four dol-
lars ($184) per parcel and renew and extend the parcel tax
for another eight (8) years beginning in fiscal year 2015-
16, with an annual 3% cost-of-living adjustment. The
proceeds of the tax may be used only for the purposes set
forth in the Measure and not for administrative salaries,
and will be subject to oversight by an independent citi-
zens’ advisory committee appointed by the Board of
Trustees.

Exemptions will be available for individuals who have
attained the age of 65, as set forth in the Measure.

s/STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Ross School has provided generations of our communi-
ty’s children with excellent elementary and middle school
education. Earlier this year, Ross School was again recog-
nized as a “California Distinguished School.” We have an
outstanding, experienced faculty and our students consis-
tently score among the highest in the state. This excellence
has been achieved in our district through parent contri-
butions and involvement, rigorous cost controls and a
community parcel tax.

Since 1989, our community has supported Ross School
through a voter-approved parcel tax and has generously
renewed this parcel tax every time it has been on the ballot.
These funds go directly to the Ross School District and stay
under local control. No funds can be taken by the state or
redirected to other school districts.

Voting YES on E will renew funding to maintain:

•	High-quality, innovative academic programs

•	An outstanding, experienced faculty

•	Low student-to-teacher ratio

•	Vibrant performing and fine arts programs

•	Student support systems for additional academic
support and acceleration

•	Specialized enrichment programs including science,
technology, engineering and design/build courses

Due to recent changes in state funding of public schools,
Ross currently receives significantly less state funding than
when our community last voted in favor of the parcel tax
eight years ago. The district is asking voters to approve a
one-time increase to the parcel tax to help partially offset
these funding decreases. The eight-year term, 3% escalator
and exemption for seniors all remain unchanged.

Whether or not you have school-age children, protect-
ing the quality of our local school is a wise investment. An
outstanding school attracts families to our community and
protects our property values and quality of life.

Please join parents, teachers, seniors, long-time resi-
dents and others across our community in extending our
foundation of excellence at Ross School. Please Vote
YES on E.

s/GARRETT SCALES
Former Mayor, Town of Ross;

Ross School, Class of 1953
s/CARLA SMALL
Former Mayor, Town of Ross; Ross Town Council
s/ELIZABETH ROBBINS, M.D.

Ross Town Council; Former President,

Ross School Board of Trustees
s/THOMAS GAFFNEY
Former Chairman, Ross School Citizens’ Facilities
Committee; Ross School, Class of 1957
s/JOHN LONGLEY
President, Ross School Board of Trustees

RES-1

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E
WAS FILED.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

BOARD OF TRUSTEES

ROSS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

MARIN COUNTY, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION NO. #18 -13

RESOLUTION AND ORDER OF ELECTION FOR

A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ASSESSMENT

RESOLVED, by the Board of Trustees (the “Board”)
of the Ross Elementary School District (the “District”), as
follows:

WHEREAS, for many years the State Legislature has
provided inadequate funding for educational programs at
the District;

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in various efforts
to generate funds for its educational programs, including
lobbying the State Legislature, local fund-raising efforts
and cost-cutting measures; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the Cali-
fornia Constitution and section 50075 seq., 53720
seq., and 50079 of the California Government Code autho-
rizes a school district, following notice and public hearing,
to levy a special tax for specified purposes upon approval
of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure
(“Parcel Tax”);

WHEREAS, for the past 25 years, starting in 1989
(through June 1994), in 1994 (through June 1999), in 1999
(through June 2007), and in 2007 (through 2014), the
District has received Parcel Tax revenue to generate funds
for the District’s educational programs;

WHEREAS, the existing Parcel Tax currently provides
approximately 10% of the District’s annual revenue and
allows it to maintain low student-to-teacher ratios and
offer a variety of programs; and

WHEREAS, the Board believes that it is necessary to
continue the Parcel Tax to provide educational opportuni-
ties for the District’s students;

NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby DECLARED and
ORDERED, as follows:

Section 1. The Board hereby proposes to call an elec-
tion on November 4,2014, for a Parcel Tax for the specific
purposes enumerated in Section 2 of this resolution.

Section 2. At said election the following measure shall
be submitted to the voters of this District:

“Measure E”

(Special Parcel Tax for Ross School District)

“To support high quality, innovative academic programs;
attract and retain highly qualified teachers; maintain low
student-to-teacher ratios; support the visual and perform-
ing arts and technology integration; and offset funding
cuts by the State; shall the Ross School District renew its
existing education parcel tax for eight years, with a one-
time increase of $184, maintaining 3% annual adjust-
ments, all funds staying local, with exemptions for prop-
erty owners aged 65 and older?”

This Parcel Tax shall be at the rate of $955.11 in the first
year, with a 3% cost-of-living adjustment to be applied
annually per assessor’s parcel for a period of eight (8) years
(through June 30, 2023). An exemption from the assess-
ment will be made available to each individual in the
District who will reach age 65 prior to September 1 of the
assessment year, who owns a beneficial interest in the par-
cel, who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of res-
idence, and who applies to the District on or before
September 1, 2015 or September 1 of any succeeding
assessment year. Any one application from a qualified
applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the
remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant
continues to use the parcel as his or her principal residence.

Section 3. On July 1, 2015, and thereafter, the Parcel
Tax shall be collected and administered by the Marin
County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with
the general ad valorem property taxes collected by said tax
collector.

Section 4. If any section, sub-section, phrase or clause
of this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining por-
tion of this resolution. This Board declares that it would
have adopted this resolution and each section, sub-section,
phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, sub-sections, phrases or clauses be
declared invalid.

Section 5. This measure shall be submitted to the vot-
ers of the District at the general election to be held
November 4,2014, and shall take effect immediately upon
its confirmation by two-thirds (2/3rds) of the votes.

Section 6. The text of the measure as displayed on each
individual ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as fol-
lows:

ROSS SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL PARCEL TAX

“To support high quality, innovative academic pro-
grams; attract and retain highly qualified teachers; main-
tain low student-to-teacher ratios; support the visual and
performing arts and technology integration; and offset
funding cuts by the State; shall the Ross School District
renew its existing education parcel tax for eight years,
with a one-time increase of $184, maintaining 3% annu-
al adjustments, all funds staying local, with exemptions
for property owners aged 65 and older?”

YES

NO

Section 7. The Marin County Superintendent of
Schools is hereby requested to prepare and execute a
Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation
order in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit
A (the “Formal Notice”), and to call the election by caus-
ing the Formal Notice to be posted in accordance with sec-
tion 5362 of the California Education Code no later than
August 6,2014, or to otherwise cause the notice to be pub-
lished as permitted by law. The Clerk of the Board, on
behalf of and as may be requested by the Marin County
Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to cause all

notices required by law in connection herewith to be pub-
lished and posted, as the case may be.

Section 8. Pursuant to section 5303 of the California
Education Code, the Marin County Registrar of Voters is
requested to take all steps to hold the election in accor-
dance with law and these specifications. The Marin
County Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to reprint
the measure in its entirety in the voter information pam-
phlet to be distributed to voters pursuant to section 13307
of the California Elections Code. In the event the measure
in Section 3 will not be reprinted in the voter information
pamphlet in its entirety, the Marin County Registrar of
Voters is hereby requested to print, immediately below the
impartial analysis of the measure, in no less than 10-point
boldface type, a legend substantially as follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure E. If you desire a copy of the measure, please call
the Marin County Registrar of Voters at 415-473-6456 and
a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.”

The Marin County Superintendent of Schools and the
Board of Supervisors of Marin County are requested to
order consolidation of the election with such other elec-
tions as may be held on the same day in the same territory
or in a territory that is in part the same. The Board of
Supervisors of Marin County is authorized to canvass the
returns of the election pursuant to section 10411 of the
California Elections Code.

Section 9. The President of the Board, or any member
or members of the Board as the President shall designate,
is hereby authorized, but not directed, to prepare and file
with the Marin County Registrar of Voters a ballot argu-
ment in favor of the proposition contained in Section 2
hereof, within the time established by the Marin County
Registrar of Voters, which shall be considered the official
ballot argument of the Board as sponsor of the proposition.
Section 10. This resolution shall take effect from and after
its adoption.

The above Resolution is adopted this 25th day of June,
2014.

Ayes: 3
Nays: 0
Abstain:	0

Absent:	2

s/JOHN LONGLEY
President

Ross School Board of Trustees

ATTEST:

s/WHIT GAITHER
Vice President

Ross School Board of Trustees

RES-3