CITY OF ISLETON
MEASURE E

E Shall a one-tenth percent tax on business rev-
enues to pay to pay for general services for the
City of Isleton. Including fire, land-use planning
and other city services, be adopted?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

Prepared by City Attorney

The City Council of the City of Isleton has placed Measure
E on the November 4, 2014 ballot. California Government
Code section 37101 authorizes the City Council to levy a
business license tax via ordinance, provided the ordinance
establishing the tax is ultimately approved by the voters.
Measure E would, if approved by voters, raise revenue for
general services in the City of Isleton by establishing a 0.1
percent (i.e., 1/10 cent) tax on the gross revenue of busi-
ness operating within the City of Isleton. The business
license tax would not apply to organizations and individuals
exempt from business license taxation by state or federal
law.

The business license tax that would be established by
Measure E is considered to be a "general tax." As a "gen-
eral tax," the revenue generated by Measure E will be
deposited in the City's general fund. Further, the ballot
question for Measure E states that the 0.1 percent business
license tax is to be used for funding general City services
"including fire, land-use planning and other city services."
Because this business license tax would be a "general tax,"
the City of Isleton would be able to use tax proceeds for any
legal governmental purpose without restriction. The City of
Isleton would not be legally bound in any way to use the tax
monies for any special purpose or for any particular pro-
gram or service.

Also, because Measure E is a "general tax," it will be
approved if a simple majority (over 50%) of voters vote in
favor of it. If approved, Measure E would become effective
on December 5, 2014.

A "YES" vote is a vote to approve the ordinance levying the
0.1 percent business license tax. A "NO" vote is a vote
against the tax.

s/JeffreyA. Mitchell, City Attorney

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

Exhibit A

ORDINANCE NO. 2013-03

AN AMENDMENT TO ORDINANCE NO. 333 AN ORDI-
NANANCE IMPOSING AN OPERATION TAX ON BUSINESSES
IN THE CITY OF ISLETON FOR REVENUE PURPOSES,
REPEALING THE BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ORDINANCES IN
CONFLICT HEREWITH

•	This Ordinance reduces the business license fee and
adds one-tenth of one percent operation tax on businesses.

•	The complete ordinance is available for viewing at City
Hall.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

This is a general tax to pay for essential basic city services.
It will pay for law enforcement, fire protection, street and

sidewalk repair and debt reduction, etc.

The Great Recession has left us with declining federal and
state funding and declining property tax due to lower
assessed values. This has made it a real challenge to pro-
vide the most basic of services. We have had to reduce city
staff; we have disbanded our police force and contracted
with Sacramento County Sheriff Dept. We have had to defer
maintenance on our streets, city buildings and storm drains.
The Fire Department has aging fire fighting and protective
equipment that is well past it useful life and needs replace-
ment.

This measure would lower the base rate for a business
license from $100 to $80 and impose a business operations
tax of one-tenth of one percent (one dollar per thousand) on
gross revenue. This would result in a more equitable price
point where the smaller businesses are paying less and the
larger and more successful businesses are paying a little
more. The fiscal impact on the city will probably be a slight
increase in business license revenue, which will increase as
the economy and local business improves. The most valu-
able benefit for the city will be in knowing how big our econ-
omy is. Is it growing or is it shrinking? This information is
essential for preparing a budget and planning for the future.

Please approve this measure and help move this town
toward prosperity.

s/Robert Jankovitz
Vice Mayor

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE E WAS FILED

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E WAS FILED