VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF WATSONVILLE

To fight crime, respond quickly to medical emergencies

Gand fires, keep youth on the right track and make
Watsonville safer by: adding firefighters and police;
increasing neighborhood police patrols; updating
firefighter safety equipment and stations; improving youth
programs to fight gangs and reduce violence; shall Watsonville
enact a one-half cent sales tax for seven years, with all funds
restricted to these specific uses, subject to independent citizen's
oversight, annual audits, and protected from government
takeaways?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE G

ORDINANCE NO.________(CM)

A CODIFIED ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
WATSONVILLE ADDING A NEW ARTICLE 11 TO CHAPTER 6 (TAXATION)
OF TITLE 3 (FINANCE) OF THE WATSONVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE
IMPOSING A ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT (0.50%) TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX: PUBLIC SAFETY SALES TAX MEASURE TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE CALIFORNIA STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Table of Contents

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WATSONVILLE, CALIFORNIA, DO
HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. ENACTMENT.

Article 11 Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance: Public Safety Sales Tax Measure
is hereby added to Chapter 6 (Taxation) of Title 3 (Finance) of the Watsonville
Municipal Code to read as follows:

Article 11. Transactions and Use Tax: Public Safety Sales Tax Measure

Sec. 3-6.1101 Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the City of Watsonville Transactions and Use
Tax: Public Safety Sales Tax Measure. The City of Watsonville hereinafter shall be
called “City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the
City of Watsonville.

Sec. 3-6.1102 Program Restrictions.

The Public Safety Sales Tax Measure will provide a secure, local revenue stream
to the City of Watsonville that shall be used entirely to provide additional police and
fire personnel, update public safety equipment, facilities and services and enhance
youth violence prevention programs to protect our community, Detailed
expenditure plans shall be developed to explain how the funds will be spent if the
one-half of one percent (0.50%) sales tax is approved. These Program Restrictions
are established to govern how the money shall be spent, to specify the accounting,
audit and oversight methods that will be implemented to make certain that the
funds are spent according to the voters’ direction, and to ensure the public is
well-informed of the progress and process.

(a)	Public Safety Services. The Public Safety Sales Tax Measure will enable the
City to hire more police officers, help improve police emergency response times,
increase neighborhood patrols, maintain anti-gang and youth violence prevention,
intervention and suppression efforts, including the Caminos and Police Activities
League programs, upgrade equipment and technology to help solve crimes, catch
criminals and fight gangs, expand programs to identify and shut down drug and
gang houses, hire more firefighters to ensure enough are on duty, maintain fire and
paramedic emergency response times, and replace inadequate and outdated life
saving equipment.

(b)	Fiscal Accountability Protections. An independent auditor shall annually review
and audit expenditures of funds specifically derived from the Public Safety Sales
Tax Measure, to disclose how the money was used and ensure compliance with
the expenditure plans and to ensure that revenues are spent within prudent,
established accounting procedures and practices. The results shall be part of the
City’s annual audit.

The City Revenue Measure Oversight Committee shall serve in an oversight
capacity to at least bi-annually review revenues and expenditures and provide a
second independent verification that all expenditures are being made as promised
to Watsonville residents. The findings of both the Revenue Measure Oversight
Committee and the independent auditor shall be reviewed by the City Council at a
publicly noticed meeting of the Council and made available to the public.

The Public Safety Sales Tax Measure will expire after seven (7) years at which
time Watsonville voters can choose to either renew the tax or let it expire.

(c)	Dedicated Accounting Structure. The Public Safety Sales Tax Measure annual
budget appropriation shall specify that all revenues from the Public Safety Sales
Tax Measure shall be used only for improving our community’s public safety, with
the revenue to be directed in support of the Police and Fire Departments, in the
proportions of sixty percent (60%) to Police and forty percent (40%) to Fire. The
proportions are based upon the approximate historical General Fund budgetary
funding proportions of the two departments.

The City shall establish separate funds into which these specific monies shall be
deposited. These funds shall be separate for Police and for Fire and shall be the
source of their respective expenditures as established in the annual budget
appropriation reviewed by the Revenue Measure Oversight Committee and
approved by resolution of the Council.

(d)	Maintenance of Effort. The City Council shall not use Public Safety Sales Tax
Measure funds to replace General Fund operating budget contributions for the
Police and Fire Departments. The baseline maintenance of effort budgets for this
purpose shall be the Fiscal Year 2013-2014 Adopted General Fund budgeted City
contribution amounts for Police and Fire operations. The Police Department Fiscal
Year 2013-2014 Adopted General Fund operating City budget contribution amount
is $12,359,924; and the Fire Department Fiscal Year 2013-2014 Adopted General
Fund operating City budget contribution amount is $5,672,299.

(e)	Administrative Costs, Administrative overhead costs for accounting, payroll
and human resources related to the Public Safety Sales Tax Measure shall not
exceed two percent (2%) of the annually budgeted revenues.

(f)	Contingency/Reserve Fund. Because the Public Safety Sales Tax Measure is
used for essential services that are needed during both good and bad economic
times, the City Council shall establish a Contingency/Reserve Fund adequate to
ensure that services are maintained in the event sales tax revenues decline. There
shall be a separate Public Safety Sales Tax Measure Contingency/Reserve Fund
for the Police Department and the Fire Department.

A Public Safety Sales Tax Measure Contingency/Reserve Fund shall be
established as follows: A Contingency/Reserve Fund containing ten percent (10%)
of the annually budgeted revenues will be established. In any given year when the
Contingency/Reserve Fund holds less than the required ten percent (10%) of
annual revenues, the first use of funds will be to implement the plan’s current year
program and then to establish or re-establish the Contingency/Reserve fund.

If actual revenues in any given year are less than budgeted revenues, the City
Council may use the Contingency/Reserve Fund to make up the difference
between budgeted revenues and actual revenues for the approved annual budget
appropriation.

(g)	Priorities if additional revenues are available. If the Contingency/Reserve Fund
is fully funded and all annual planned expenditures have been implemented, any
additional unanticipated sales tax revenues shall be used first to accelerate the
implementation of the expenditure plans and then to provide additional public
safety facilities, personnel, and equipment and youth violence prevention based
upon the specific needs of the community with the review and recommendation of
the Revenue Measure Oversight Committee and approval of the City Council.

Sec. 3-6.1103 Operative date.

“Operative Date" shall mean the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance.

Sec. 3-6.1104 Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish these
purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 both in
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code which authorizes the City to adopt
this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in
a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize
the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time,
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

Sec. 3-6.1105 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of
this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day
of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Sec. 3-6.1106 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of
one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory for seven (7) years from
the operative date of this ordinance.

Sec. 3-6.1107 Place of sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. If a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

Sec. 3-6.1108 Use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
incorporated territory of the City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer for seven (7) years after the operative date of this ordinance for storage,
use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent
(0.50 %) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

Sec. 3-6.1109 Adoption of provisions of State law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Pari 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of

Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part
of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Sec. 3-6.1110 Limitations on adoption of State law and collection of use
taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

(1)	The word "State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

(i)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or

(ii)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use, or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the State under
the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word "City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Sec. 3-6.1111 Permit not required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

Sec. 3-6.1112 Exemptions and exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside
the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

(i) With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with

44-513

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by
a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

(ii) With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property;

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under
a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer,

(7)	"A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any

of the following:	vehicles	subject	to	registration	pursuant to Chapter 1

(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in
the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district

imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Sec. 3-6.1113 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of
tax imposed by this ordinance.

Sec. 3-6.1114 Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against
any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax
or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Sec. 3-6.1115 Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Sec. 3-6.1116 Effective date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use
tax and shall take effect immediately.

Sec. 3-6.1117 Termination date.

The tax levied by this ordinance shall continue from October 1, 2014, until
September 30, 2021, which is seven (7) years from the Operative Date of this
ordinance.

VOTER'S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE G

Referendum - Ordinance

The City Council of the City of Watsonville has placed Measure G on the June 3,
2014, ballot to ask the voters to approve an ordinance that would enact a
temporary one-half percent (0.50%) sales tax within the City. If approved, the tax
would add one-half cent to the price of an item that costs one dollar. Sales taxes
are levied on the sale or use of "tangible personal property" sold at retail. Retailers
collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of
Equalization, which administers the tax.

The tax on retail sales in Watsonville is now 8.5% of the purchase price. The City,
however, only receives 1.5% of this 8.5%. The remainder goes to the State (6.5%),
and (0.50%) to the Santa Cruz Metropolitan Transit District. This Measure, if
approved by the voters, would authorize an additional one-half percent sales tax
(officially referred to as a "transactions and use" tax) which would increase the total
sales tax rate on retail sales in Watsonville from 8.5% to 9% for a seven year
period, at which time it would automatically end.

California law (Government Code §§ 50075.1) requires that

1.	special tax proceeds be applied only to the specific purposes identified,

2.	an account be created into which the proceeds shall be deposited and

3.	that an annual report be provided pursuant to Section 50075.3 that contains the
amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded as identified in subdivision (a) of Section 50075.1.

All revenue generated by this Measure would therefore go to a special public safety
fund and may be used only for police and fire services and not used or borrowed
against for other purposes. A citizen's oversight committee will review use of the
funds to verify the funds are used for only the stated public safety purposes. City
financial statements made available to the public in public meetings will disclose
how much is collected and how it is spent. The Measure requires the independent
auditors to audit the fund with other City funds and prepare annually a publicly
available report reviewed at a public meeting on the collection, management, and
spending of revenue from the tax.

In summary, the City may use the funds only to “provide additional police and fire
personnel, update public safety equipment, facilities and services and enhance
youth violence prevention programs/

This tax by its own terms ends automatically seven (7) years after collection
begins.

A “Yes" vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the one half percent tax for 7
years. A "No” vote is a vote against the tax. This Measure would be approved if
two-thirds of those voters who vote approve the measure by voting “yes.'’

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure G. You can also visit the
Santa Cruz County Elections Department Website for additional information:
httD://www.votescount.com/iun14/lm.htm#meai

March 19, 2014

s/ Alan J, Smith
City Attorney

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT BY ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
DIRECTOR-MEASURE G

Measure G authorizes the City of Watsonville to impose a special sales and use tax
(sales tax) of one half of one percent (0.50%) on transactions in the City of
Watsonville for seven years, beginning .in fiscal year (FY) 2014-15 and ending in
FY 2020-21 The tax proceeds will be deposited into a special and segregated
account to be used only for Public Safety Services (Police and Fire) which include:

•	Hiring new police officers

•	Hiring new firefighters/paramedics

•	Upgrading technology to help solve crimes

•	Improving response times for both police and fire

•	Obtaining needed safety equipment to fight crime and respond to emergency
calls, and

•	Maintaining anti-gang/youth violence prevention efforts, and

•	Increasing neighborhood patrols

As this is a special tax, monies may only be used for the specific purposes
described in the proposed ordinance and ballot language. I estimate this sales tax
measure will generate approximately $2.8 million annually and $20 million over 7
years, which would be split 60% for police services and 40% for fire services. The
tax rate cannot be increased by action of the City Council without voter approval. In
addition the following restrictions are imposed on this tax.

•	The measure will automatically end after seven years unless the voters vote
to renew the measure after 7 years

•	The measure would require 2/3 vote for enactment

•	A Revenue Oversight Committee will review the annual budget. The
Committee will include various members of the community to ensure funds
are spent on the specific areas indicated by the measure.

•	A Maintenance of effort requirement will be established to ensure current
spending levels for police and fire services are sustained. The maintenance
of effort would be the FY 2013-14 budget.

•	An independent annual audit will be performed on these funds

Based on my analysis of past sales tax revenues provided by City staff, the
projected revenues appear accurate. In this analysis I relied on the best data
available at this time; however, actual revenues may be more or less than City
staffs estimates due to increased or decreased sales due to changes in the
general economy.

si Ezequiel Vega,

Administrative Services Director

Santa Cruz County

44-515

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G  Vote YES on G for a safer Watsonville!  Measure G funds can be used ONLY for public safety services in Watsonville—nothing can be diverted for other purposes or taken by the State,  Measure G will increase police, fire and emergency medical services, including rapid emergency response to life-threatening emergencies, neighborhood police patrols, youth violence prevention and anti-gang programs—servicesthat save lives and make Watsonville a safer place.  Since 1983, Watsonville's population has tripled and emergency calls have increased by 700%, while the number of on-duty firefighters has remained the same. Violent crime rates in Watsonville are higher than state and national averages, and police don't have the equipment and technology needed to coordinate in solving crimes and fighting gangs.  Vote YES on G for a Safer Watsonville:  •	Provide enough firefighters and paramedics to ensure rapid emergency response times for police, firefighters and paramedics  •	Expand programs to fight gangs and identify and shut down drug houses  •	Protect proven, successful anti-gang and youth violence prevention efforts that reach hundreds of first-time offenders to get them on the right track  •	Replace inadequate, outdated equipment for firefighters and paramedics such as the Jaws of Life, defibrillators and essential safety gear  •	Increase neighborhood police patrols  •	Upgrade equipment and technology to solve crimes and fight gangs Strict Fiscal Accountability Is Required:  •	By law, all funds are dedicated solely to police, fire and emergency medical services  •	No funds can be taken by the state  •	An Independent Citizens Oversight Committee representing a range of interests and neighborhoods will review all expenditures and make annual public reports  Measure G provides local funding that stays under local control—dedicated exclusively to keeping Watsonville safe.  Join police and fire along with local business, neighborhood and faith leaders—Vote YES on G!  s/ Karina Cervantez Mayor, City of Watsonville  s/ Betty J. Bobeda former Mayor City of Watsonville  s/ Masaru Hashimoto Retired Educator  si Nevenka Radich Retired Educator/Business Owner  si Dee Dee Vargas Realtor/Revenue Measure Oversight Committee Chair	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G  Did You Know...  •	How much of the $20 million special tax money will actually be spent on new hires, vehicles, and equipment by the Police and Fire Departments?  NO  Why has the City kept this information secret?  •	That payment for retirement benefits (CalPERS) for both Police and Fire will be paid from the $20 million?  NO  Two years ago the City borrowed $5.4 million to pay the annual retirement benefits from various city departments. One of them was the Park's Development Fund, which may defer youth crime.  Former Police Chief Terry Medina receives approximately $195,000 annually In retirement benefits.  •	The City will charge taxpayers a percentage rate for Administrative Fees from the special tax fund to allocate the tax money to Police/Fire Departments?  NO  Instead of actual costs, if the City charges a 10% rate, it will gain $2 Miltion in the seven-year life span of the special tax. This money could be tunneled to the General Fund.  •	The City can legally borrow from the special tax fund at any time with the City Council approval regardless of any “restrictions" placed by the Oversight Committee and/or the State?  NO  • The City Charter guarantees that the City Council (as elected officials) supersedes any committee.  9 That City Manager Carlos Palacios earns more than the Governor?  NO  If you answered “No" to the majority of the questions,  Why would you vote for the tax increase?  VOTE NO on MEASURE G  si Emilio Martinez Former Watsonville City Councilmember, Private Investigator

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Don't Trust this City Council with your Money
VOTE NO against Greed

•	Big Money Grab for City Pensions

•	Highest Sales Tax in Santa Cruz County

•	Unfair Prices hurt lo-income families most

•	Serious Lack of Trust for City Administration

The public was tricked into believing that a very expensive Fire Truck was
purchased only to discover that it was not located in town. Residents in Districts 6
& 7 were promised a new fire House near the East Lake Shopping Center. Monies
were collected....there is still NO Fire Station therel

Discover details at: www.watsonvillefishinqrepQrt.com

Spending is way out of control by the City of Watsonville. The questionable practice
of spending special funds from different accounts has led to numerous newspaper
stories and investigation. Even the Santa Cruz County Grand Jury has
documented a lack of transparency with some financial dealings associated with
the City of Watsonville.

City Manager & City Clerk salaries are raised or given pension upgrades while
many of our poorest residents continue to suffer financial hardship and
unemployment.

Did the retired Police Chief win the Lottery?

The former Watsonville Police Chief is raking in more than $190,000 in pension
payments every year! How would you like to retire at $15,000 a month for the rest
of your life? Look up retirees at: www.transparentcalifornia.com

Only the City Counc/7 can spend this money

Don’t get me wrong; our current Chief of Police is a very honorable man. However,
he is not in control of spending with these special Measure G tax funds. In point of
fact, neither is the independent oversight committee.

Measure G is nothing more than a greedy grab for more of your hard earned
money. Don’t be fooled again by empty promises. Please Vote NO on Measure G.
Thank You

si Emilio Martinez
Former Watsonville City Councilmember, Private Investigator

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

A YES Vote on G is a vote for a safer Watsonville.

Measure G provides for a safer Watsonville with local funding that stays under local
control for local services -dedicated exclusively to public safety.

Measure G Funds Have Strict Fiscal Accountability with Transparency.

These funds can only be used to fund public safety, are protected by state law,
local ordinance and a Citizens Oversight Committee.

•	Funds are dedicated solely to police, fire and emergency medical services

•	No funds can be taken by the state or used for other purposes

•	An Independent Citizens Oversight Committee representing a range of
interests and neighborhoods will review all expenditures and make annual
public reports to you the voter!

Measure G will increase services that save lives and make Watsonville safer:

•	More police officers, firefighters and paramedics

•	Rapid response to life-threatening emergencies

•	Increase neighborhood police patrols

•	Expand youth violence prevention and anti-gang programs
Measure G will provide resources to:

•	Expand programs to fight gangs and identify and shut down drug houses

•	Replace inadequate, outdated equipment for firefighters and paramedics
such as the Jaws of Life, defibrillators and essential safety gear

•	Upgrade equipment and technology to solve crimes and fight gangs

Join police, fire and public safety leaders along with local business, neighborhood
and faith leaders who have already endorsed and support Measure G!

si Betty J. Bobeda
former Mayor, City of Watsonville

si Masaru “Mas" Hashimoto
retired school teacher PVUSD

si Nevenka Radich
Retired Educator/Business Owner

si Dee Ann Vargas
Realtor, Resident of Wats., Revenue Measure Oversight Committee Chair

si Karina Cervantez
Mayor, City of Watsonville

Santa Cruz County

44-517