Measure B

Libraries Local Funding Continuation
City of San Jose

Parcel Tax - 2/3 Approval Required

To continue existing, voter-approved funding for all San Jose's libraries and
services, including: open hours; librarians; updated books/research materials;
access to computers/technology; children's reading programs, story times,
teen/senior programs; and adult literacy/jobreadiness, shall the City of San Jose
continue its library parcel tax for 25 years, subject to independent annual audits
and citizens oversight, with no change in the existing voter-approved tax rate
formula?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

Voting yes on this measure is a vote to continue the Library Parcel Tax for 25
years to be used only for library purposes.

A NO vote on this measure means:

Voting no on this measure is a vote to let the Library Parcel Tax expire on June
30,2015.

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney, City of
San Jose

The proposed measure, if approved, would enact an ordinance amending the
San Jose Municipal Code to extend an existing annual special tax on parcels of
land for library purposes ("Library Parcel Tax"). The San Jose City Council
placed this measure on the ballot. Under State law, passage of this measure
requires two-thirds voter approval.

The Library Parcel Tax was originally approved by the voters in 2004 and expires on
June 30, 2015. The amending ordinance would continue library funding provided by the
Library Parcel Tax until June 30, 2040.

The land use classifications and Library Parcel tax rates imposed on those
classifications would continue based on current rates: $29.84 on single-family parcels,
condominiums and townhomes and the other specified rates for multi-family and other
types of residential, industrial, commercial, professional, and vacant parcels. Each fiscal
year the City Council may adjust the Library Parcel Tax rates by the inflation rate in the
Bay Area, not to exceed three percent. The amending ordinance clarifies the calculation
of the inflation rate adjustment.

The amending ordinance does not make any other changes to the Library Parcel Tax in
the Municipal Code. Existing features of the Library Parcel Tax are described below.

The Municipal Code exempts parcels owned by churches and religious organizations
and used for religious worship and parcels owned by governmental entities.

The Library Parcel Tax would continue to be collected by the County in conjunction
with the collection of property taxes. Payment of the Library Parcel Tax is subject to the
same requirements applicable to the payment of property taxes.

The Library Parcel Tax proceeds are required to be deposited into a special fund and
used only for library purposes, including the acquisition of library books and materials
and related costs of maintaining library collections; the development and delivery of
homework and educational programs; the repair, equipping and staffing of libraries;
and the cost of collection and administration of the Library Parcel Tax.

The Municipal Code requires the City Council to appoint or designate an oversight
committee to review the expenditure of the Library Parcel Tax proceeds. Annually, the
City's Director of Finance must report in writing to the City Council for the prior fiscal
year the amount of Library Parcel Tax receipts and the expenditures. Additionally, the
City's independent auditor is required to annually audit the expenditure of the Library
Parcel Tax proceeds.

The City Council may adopt clarifying amendments and corrections to the Municipal
Code's provisions regarding the Library Parcel Tax. However, voter approval is required
to increase the Library Parcel Tax rate, other than inflation adjustments, or to extend
the term of the tax.

Voting yes on this measure is a vote to continue the Library Parcel Tax for 25 years to
be used only for library purposes.

Voting no on this measure is a vote to let the Library Parcel Tax expire on June 30, 2015.

/s/Richard Doyle

City Attorney, City of San Jose

Arguments For Measure B

Protect and maintain San Jose's neighborhood libraries, without increasing
your taxes--Vote YES on B!

Neighborhood libraries play a critical role in our community. In 2013, residents made
6,000,000 visits to San Jose libraries. Over 200,000 children, teens, and adults attended
library workshops, and 89,000 children and adults attended library literacy programs.

Twenty years ago, the community approved funding for San Jose libraries, which will
expire unless renewed. Without extending this existing, voter-approved funding, tens of
thousands of local students and residents will be affected-Vote YES on B!

Measure B is NOT a new tax.

Measure B is NOT a tax increase.

Measure B simply extends existing library funding.

Every dollar raised by Measure B goes directly to OUR San Jose libraries —and by law,
cannot be used by politicians for any other purpose.

YES on B prevents neighborhood libraries from closing

YES on B provides safe computers for children to use and places to go after school
YES on B prevents elimination of children's reading programs
YES on B provides library services for local schools that don't have libraries at their
school sites

YES on B keeps libraries safe and clean

Most of San Jose's libraries are only open four days a week, and only half are open on
weekends. YES on B maintains library hours and helps keep libraries open at least one
day on weekends.

Neighborhood public libraries are one of the few community centers left that benefit
children, families, seniors and the disabled. Many seniors and families rely on libraries
because buying books is just too expensive.

YES on B is subject to annual, published audits and Independent Citizens Oversight. Join
the San Jose Mercury News, teachers, parents, librarians, community leaders and local
business owners in voting YES on B to maintain funding for our local libraries!

/s/ Gloria Chun Hoo

President, League of Women Voters, San Jose/Santa Clara

/s/ Maria A. Evans
Elementary School Principal

/s/ Carl Guardino

President & CEO Silicon Valley Leadership Group

/ s/ Jane E. Light
Retired Librarian

/s/ Patricia Wolfe

Retired San Jose Resident/Taxpayer

Arguments Against Measure B

Vote "No" on Measure B.

Children's computers in San Jose libraries do not protect our children from graphic
sexual pictures. Pornographic images are available to our children on the computers in

the children's section of the San Jose Libraries. Santa Clara County Library District
computers have pornography filters in place to protect the children of Los Altos,
Cupertino, Los Altos Hills, Monte Sereno, and Saratoga from pornographic images.

The San Jose children that use our San Jose libraries deserve to be protected in the same
way. In 2009, the San Jose library system refused to protect our children even though
the costs to install the filters on the computers in the children's section were
guaranteed by private contributions. Why reward the libraries which do not give our
children the same protection children in other cities receive? Help make our libraries a
safe place for children and families. No parcel tax extension until pornography filters
are installed on the computers in the children's section of our libraries.

Protect our children.

Vote "No" on Measure B.

/s/ Mary Anne Fifield
Pornography Addiction Specialist

/s/ Larry Pegram

President, Values Advocacy Council

/s/ Oretta Rodriguez
Parent

/s/ Sue Sheffield

Elementary School Teacher/Parent
/s/ Robert Varich

School Board Member, Moreland School District