TOWN OF FAIRFAX MEASURE J	
I MEASURE J: Shall an ordinance 1 combining Fairfax's existing $50 annual general tax with our $125 special tax and a $20 increase be adopted approving a five-year renewal of the special nicipal services tax of $195 annually for e occupancy and dwelling unit, in order to: cal Police Station open 24/7; Maintain Fire services; Provide funding for Public Work jects; Enhance Youth and Senior prograrr tinue the Citizen's Oversight Committee?	YES
	NO
	[ Fairfax mu- ach business Keep our lo- : Department s/safety pro- is; and Con-

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE J

The Town Council voted to place Measure J on the ballot.
Measure J, if passed by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters,
would amend the Town Code to consolidate two existing
municipal service taxes into a single special municipal ser-
vices tax, increase that single tax by twenty dollars ($20)
for a total of one hundred ninety-five dollars ($195) per
year on each residential dwelling unit and each business
occupancy within the boundaries of the Town of Fairfax,
and extend the single tax for a period of five (5) years,
expiring on June 30,2020. Specifically, the tax amount of
$195 per residential dwelling unit and business occupancy
consists of the existing $125 per year special municipal
tax, the $50 per year general municipal tax (which is elim-
inated with this consolidation), and a $20 per year
increase.

Measure J requires that the revenue from the special tax be
used exclusively for the specific purposes of maintaining
24-hour, seven days per week staffing of the local Police
Station, maintaining Fire Department services, providing
funding for public works and safety projects, and enhanc-
ing youth and senior programs. The tax will be overseen
by a citizens’ oversight committee to ensure the tax rev-
enue is spent accordingly. The measure also requires the
Town Manager annually to file a special tax accountabili-
ty report with the Town Council.

A “YES” vote would be a vote to combine two exist-
ing taxes, increase the combined tax $20 per year and
extend the existing tax for a period of five years, subject to
the conditions and restrictions stated above.

A “NO” vote would be a vote to not extend the tax.

s/JANET COLESON
Town Attorney
Town of Fairfax

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J

Measure J is not a new tax, it simply continues the sound
fiscal policy begun when Fairfax overwhelmingly passed
Measure F ten years ago and renewed with Measure I five
years ago. Measure J also combines Fairfax’s longstand-
ing $50 general municipal services tax which has been dis-
continued as a separate tax. So while the total combined
tax is larger than past ballot measures, it actually only
includes a modest increase of $20, the first increase these
taxes have ever had.

Measure J will help Fairfax enhance senior programs and
support an improved pedestrian trail maintenance program
to provide alternative exit routes in a wildfire. Every dol-
lar raised by Measure J will stay in Fairfax for public safe-
ty, public works, youth and senior programs. Fairfax can-
not afford to lose these funds - costs to maintain public
services have increased. Continuation of these measures is
critical to ensure our town’s fiscal solvency and indepen-
dence.

$ince the passage of both Measure F and I, Fairfax has
repaid the voters’ trust:

$ervices:

•	Our police station remains open and staffed with pro-
fessional personnel 24/7

•	Bike and pedestrian improvements continued

•	Increased telecommunications access to public meet-
ings

$avings:

•	An independent citizen’s committee annually reviewed
expenditures

•	Pension benefits for new hires were trimmed

•	Town employees pay their share into pension plans

•	Less critical employee positions held vacant to
increase savings

Fairfax runs lean budgets and employs the fewest employ-
ees per capita of any small town in Marin. At the same
time, it has maintained locally controlled 24/7 public safe-
ty services, second to none in cost and effectiveness.
Public works projects have repaired local roads, led our
recovery from the 2005 flood, and improved our pedestri-
an and bicycle school safety routes. Fairfax’s combina-
tion of thrift, innovation and open government deserves to
be preserved.

PLEASE VOTE YES ON J
s/BARBARA COLER
Fairfax Councilmember
s/JOHN REED
Fairfax Councilmember
s/DAVID WEINSOFF
Fairfax Mayor
s/LARRY BRAGMAN
Fairfax Vice Mayor
s/RENEE GODDARD
Fairfax Councilmember

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE J WAS FILED.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE J

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans recommends that
you vote “NO” on Measure J. Our reasoning follows:

•	Measure J requests taxpayer money to provide ser-
vices that should be funded through the normal
operating revenues of the Town.

•	The Town has asked for funding to mask the sys-
tematic mismanagement of their operations.

•	Money is fungible. A “YES” vote on Measure J is a
vote to allow our elected officials to avoid setting
priorities and allocating funds appropriately.

•	The systematic mismanagement of operations is
highlighted through excessive pensions and retiree
medical plans.

Mismanaged pensions and other retirement plans are
endemic in the public sector and the Town is no exception.
These plans suffer from major problems:

•	The plans are extremely generous. The value of the
plans dwarfs the value of corresponding plans pro-
vided in the private sector.

•	In addition to their lavish plan costs, the plans are
subject to extreme cost fluctuations and risk. The
costs of plans are based upon very optimistic
assumptions. Unless those assumptions are met
(and they have not been this century), there is a
funding shortfall (i.e., unfunded liability). This
shortfall is recovered through increased contribu-
tions from the Town (i.e., the taxpayer).

•	These higher contributions come at a cost. Either
the Town reduces services or it requests more
money. Measure J is an example of a request for
more money from the taxpayer.

If taxpayers vote for Measure J, they are enabling the
Town to continue its mismanagement by maintaining its
rich and financially volatile retirement plans. A better idea
is that the Town reform its plans to stabilize its budget and
to eliminate the need for taxpayer requests such as
Measure J.

Vote against this measure!
s/JODY MORALES
Founder and President,

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE J

The opposition argument is full of misstatements and half-
truths.

Here are the facts about Measure J - It is not a new tax,
it continues the taxes with a modest $20 increase to keep
our Police Station open 24/7, maintain our Fire Depart-
ment services, provide funding for public works and safe-
ty projects, and enhance youth and senior programs.
Fairfax has already taken many steps to reduce our
pension liabilities - We have reduced pension benefits for
new hires and Town employees now pay their full share
into their pension plans. We have implemented plans to pay
off pension liabilities over the next few years for Town
staff and Police. The pension liability for Fire was refi-
nanced in 2012 with a short term bond measure that allows
for more manageable payments. We have also held less
critical employee positions vacant to increase our savings.
Measure J funds will be locally controlled. The State
cannot take away anv of these funds. Fairfax embraces
open government and transparency for all our actions - we
will continue having an independent citizen’s committee
annually review expenditures for this measure. Fairfax
cannot afford to lose these funds - costs to maintain pub-
lic services have increased. Continuation of this measure
is sound fiscal policy which is critical to ensure our
town’s solvency and maintain local control.

Don’t be misled - Measure J is not about pension liabili-
ty or mismanagement of funds. Fairfax has always been
fiscally responsible, conservative and prudent.

Please vote Yes on Measure J
s/BARBARA COLER
Fairfax Councilmember
s/LARRY BRAGMAN
Vice Mayor
s/DAVID WEINSOFF
Mayor
s/BARBARA L. PETTY
Town Treasurer
s/JENNIFER HAMMOND
Executive Director/Sustainable Fairfax

FRX-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE J

RESOLUTION 14-35

A RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF
THE TOWN OF FAIRFAX CALLING A SPECIAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD IN ITS
JURISDICTION ON NOVEMBER 4,2014 FOR THE
PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO VOTERS A MEA-
SURE AUTHORIZING THE CONTINUATION OF
A SPECIAL TAX FOR POLICE AND FIRE SER-
VICES STAFFING, PUBLIC WORKS SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS, MATCH FUNDING FOR
STATE AND FEDERAL PUBLIC WORKS GRANTS
AND YOUTH AND SENIOR PROGRAMS;
REQUESTING THE MARIN COUNTY BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS TO CONSOLIDATE WITH THE
GENERAL ELECTION CONDUCTED ON THAT
DATE; AND REQUESTING ELECTION SERVICES
OF THE COUNTY CLERK

WHEREAS, on November 3, 2009, the voters of the
Town of Fairfax approved a special tax to maintain 24-
hour, seven days per week staffing of Police and Fire
Services, to perform Public Works safety improvements,
to meet matching fund requirements needed to receive
state and federal public works grants, and to revitalize
youth programs; and

WHEREAS, the special tax is scheduled to expire on June
30,2015; and

WHEREAS, the Town Council desires to hold a special
municipal election to be consolidated with the statewide
general election scheduled to be held on November 4,
2014; and

WHEREAS, at that election there shall be submitted to
the qualified voters of the Town, the following question:
"Shall an ordinance combining Fairfax's existing $50
annual general tax with our $125 special tax and a $20
increase be adopted approving a five-year renewal of
the special Fairfax municipal services tax of $195
annually for each business occupancy and dwelling
unit, in order to:

Keep our local Police Station open 24/7;

Maintain Fire Department services;

Provide funding for Public Works/safety projects;
Enhance Youth and Senior programs; and
Continue the Citizen's Oversight Committee?"
WHEREAS, if this measure receives approval by two-
thirds of the voters voting thereon, the ordinance in the
form attached hereto as Exhibit “A” shall be adopted; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10002 of the Elections
Code, the Town may request the Board of Supervisors to
permit the County Clerk to render specified services to the
Town relating to the conduct of the election on a reim-
bursable basis; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Coun
cil of the Town of Fairfax as follows:

1.	That a special municipal election is hereby called to be
held on November 4,2014, at which the ballot question
set forth above shall be determined by the voters. The

text of the proposed ordinance to be submitted to the
voters is attached hereto as Exhibit “A” and incorpo-
rated herein by reference; and

2.	That the Board of Supervisors of the County of Marin
is hereby requested to consolidate said election with
the general election to be conducted on the same day,
as provided in Elections Code Sections 10400 et seq.;
and

3.	The Town of Fairfax recognizes that additional costs
will be incurred by the County by reason of this con-
solidation and agrees to reimburse the County for any
such costs upon presentation of a reasonable detailed
invoice as required by Elections Code Section 10002;
and

4.	In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the
municipal election shall be held and conducted as pro-
vided by law for holding consolidated municipal elec-
tions. The Town Council hereby acknowledges that
the consolidated election shall be held and conducted
in the manner proscribed in Elections Code Section
10418; and

5.	That the Board of Supervisors of the County of Marin
is hereby requested to authorize the County Clerk to
render the following specified services for the Town of
Fairfax relating to the conduct of the election to be held
on November 4, 2014: Preparation of voter indexes;
voter counting by precinct; verification of signatures;
drayage and rental of polling places; printing of mea-
sures and arguments; printing of sample and official
ballots; appointment and notification of election offi-
cers; mailing of sample ballots and polling place noti-
fication; provision of precinct supplies; training of
precinct workers; processing of absentee ballots; cen-
tral counting; canvass of votes cast; and

6.	The Town Clerk is hereby ordered and directed to file
a certified copy of this resolution with the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Marin no later than
August 8,2014.

7.	The Town Clerk’s office shall publish the required
notice in the Town of Fairfax pursuant to Elections
Code Sections 12111.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the

Town Council of the Town of Fairfax on the 16th day of

July 2014, by the following vote:

AYES:	Bragman, Coler, Goddard, Reed, Weinsoff

NOES:	None

ABSENT: None

ABSTAIN: None

s/DAVID WEINSOFF
Mayor

ATTEST:

s/MICHELE GARDNER
Town Clerk

EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No.____

AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF FAIRFAX,
CALIFORNIA, AMENDING CHAPTER 3.20 OF
THE FAIRFAX MUNICIPAL CODE AUTHORIZ-
ING THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX TO FINANCE
MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND ADDING CHAPTER
3.02 PROVIDING SPECIAL TAX ACCOUNTA-
BILITY MEASURES
THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF FAIRFAX, CALI-
FORNIA DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1: Chapter 3.20 of the Fairfax Municipal Code is
hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as fol-
lows:

“Chapter 3.20

Section

3.20.010 Findings; Statement of Purpose
3.20.020 Special municipal services tax imposed; rate
3.20.030 Deposit and use of funds from special munici-
pal services tax
3.20.040 Exemptions

3.20.050 Use of town and county records to determine
assessments
3.20.060 Collection
3.20.070 Amendment
3.20.080 Termination of Provisions
§ 3.20.010 FINDINGS; STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.

The Town Council determines that the cost to maintain
certain municipal services at a level required to provide
for the health, safety and general welfare of its residents
exceeds the amount of funds and revenues generated from
all other sources of income. The Town Council further
determines that the levy of a special municipal services tax
on improved real property throughout the town is neces-
sary to maintain an adequate level of municipal services.
It is the sole purpose and intent of this chapter to impose a
special tax to maintain 24-hour, seven days per week
staffing of the Fairfax Police Station, maintain Fire Ser-
vices, provide funding for Public Works safety improve-
ments, and enhance youth and senior programs. A citizens'
oversight committee was established by the Town Council
in 2005 with the passage of Measure F for the purpose of
monitoring the use of the special tax revenues in accor-
dance with this section.

§ 3.20.020 SPECIAL SERVICES TAX IMPOSED;
RATE.

A special municipal services tax not exceeding the max-
imum amounts set forth in this section is imposed on all
improved real property within the boundaries of the town:

(A)	A special municipal services tax is levied and
imposed upon improved residential property at a rate of
$195 per dwelling unit. As used herein the term "dwelling
unit" means any building or portion thereof used and/or
designed as a separate dwelling accommodation, with
cooking, living and sleeping facilities.

(B)	A special municipal services tax is levied and
imposed upon improved business property at a rate of
FRX-4

$195 for each business occupancy. As used herein, the
term "business occupancy" means any portion of a build-
ing or structure or other improved real property which is
occupied or designed to be occupied by a separate busi-
ness establishment required to be licensed as such pur-
suant to Title 5 of this code.

§ 3.20.030 DEPOSIT AND USE OF FUNDS FROM
SPECIAL MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX.

All proceeds of the special municipal services tax
levied and imposed under section 3.20.020 of this chapter
shall be paid into a special fund to be used exclusively to
maintain 24-hour, seven days per week staffing of the
Fairfax Police Station; maintain Fire Services; provide
funding for Public Works safety projects, and enhance
youth and senior programs. The citizens' oversight com-
mittee to monitor use of the special tax revenues in accor-
dance with this section shall be continued.

§ 3.20.040 EXEMPTIONS.

The special tax shall not be imposed upon any parcel that
is exempt from the special tax pursuant to any provision of
the Constitution or any paramount law.

§ 3.20.050 USE OF TOWN AND COUNTY
RECORDS TO DETERMINE ASSESSMENTS.

The records of the County Assessor of the County of
Marin as of March 1 each year and the records of the Town
of Fairfax maintained pursuant to the provisions of Title 5
of this code may be used to determine the actual use of
each parcel of real property for purposes of determining
the tax under this chapter.

§ 3.20.060 COLLECTION.

The special tax imposed by this chapter shall be col-
lected in the same manner, on the same dates, and shall be
subject to the same penalties and interest as other charges
and taxes fixed and collected by the County of Marin on
behalf of the Town of Fairfax. Said special tax, together
with all penalties and interest thereon, shall constitute a
lien upon the parcel upon which it is levied until it has
been paid, and said special tax, together with all penalties
and interest thereon, shall, until paid, constitute a person-
al obligation to the Town of Fairfax by the persons who
own the parcel on the date the tax is due.

§ 3.20.070 AMENDMENT.

The Town Council shall be empowered to amend this
chapter by three affirmative votes of its members to carry
out the general purposes of this chapter, to conform the
provisions of this chapter to applicable state law, to modi-
fy the methods of collection, or to assign the duties to pub-
lic officials under this chapter. In no event shall the Town
Council amend this chapter to increase the maximum
amount of the special tax established in section 3.20.020,
unless approved by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon.
§ 3.20.080 TERMINATION OF PROVISIONS.

This chapter shall be null and void as of twelve o’clock
midnight, June 30,2020, and shall have no force and effect
whatsoever after said time and date. Notwithstanding the
previous sentence, section 3.20.060, relating to collection
and enforcement of liens or obligations for the special tax
previously levied hereunder, shall continue in effect until

such time as the collection and enforcement procedures
have been completed.”

Section 2: Chapter 3.02 is hereby added to the Fairfax
Municipal Code to read as follows:

“Chapter 3.02
Special Tax Accountability Measures

The Town Manager shall annually file a special tax
accountability report with the Town Council. The annual
report shall contain both of the following: (a) the amount
of funds collected and expended for each special tax
imposed by the Town and (b) the status of any project
required or authorized to be funded by such special tax, as
required by California Government Code Section 50075.3,
as such law is amended from time to time.”

Section 3: The appropriations limit of the Town of Fairfax
established under Article XIIIB, Section 6 of the Cali-
fornia Constitution shall be increased by the proceeds
received from the special tax imposed by this ordinance.
Any future increases in the appropriations limit shall be
approved by a majority vote of the voters voting thereon.
Section 4: If any provision of this ordinance or the appli-
cation thereof to any person or circumstances is held
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not
affect any other provision or applications, and to this end
the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be sever-
able. The Town Council, and the electorate by referendum,
do hereby declare that they would have adopted this ordi-
nance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, part or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases,
parts or portions thereof, be declared invalid or unconsti-
tutional .

Section 5:	This ordinance shall be adopted and become

effective only if approved by two-thirds of the voters vot-
ing thereon, at an election to be held on November 4,
2014.

Section 6:	The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to

the adoption of this ordinance by signing where indicated
below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was
PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the people of
the Town of Fairfax voting on the 4th day of November,
2014.

By:

DAVID WEINSOFF
Mayor

ATTEST:

MICHELE GARDNER
Town Clerk

FRX-5