CITY OF RANCHO CORDOVA
MEASURE H

HTo enhance City services, facilities and pro-
grams, including: enhancing anti-gang/youth
violence prevention programs; increasing
neighborhood police patrols; fixing streets faster;
expanding children/teen after-school programs; remov-
ing blight/revitalizing vacant buildings along Folsom
Boulevard; building community facilities for seniors/
working adults/children; and other general city services;
shall the City of Rancho Cordova enact a % cent
sales tax, that cannot be taken by the State, requiring
annual audits and all funds be spent in Rancho
Cordova?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

Prepared by City Attorney

The City Council of the City of Rancho Cordova placed
Measure H on the ballot to ask the City’s voters to approve
a one-half of one percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax.
The proposed tax would, for example, add a half-cent to the
price of an item purchased for $1, or 500 to the price of an
item purchased for $100.

In placing Measure H on the ballot, the City Council ex-
plained that a recent survey shows residents of Rancho
Cordova are happy with their quality of life. According to a
report on Measure H prepared by City staff, the tax would
provide over $5 million for the City per year, significantly
increasing the City’s ability to address community priorities.
Measure H would not limit the use of the tax revenue; it is a
“general tax,” not a “special tax” that restricts the funds to
any specific priorities or purposes. The City may use funds
from the tax for any legitimate governmental purpose.

The proposed tax would continue until repealed by a
majority vote of the voters of the City, or until repealed or
suspended or by a majority vote of the City Council.

Measure H requires an annual audit by an independent
auditor of the revenue received from the tax. The audit is not
required to separately identify what the proceeds of the tax
are used to purchase. The auditor’s report must be present-
ed to the Council and made available to the public.

The statewide sales tax rate is 7.5% only a very small
portion of which is distributed to counties and cities. Voters
in Sacramento County have approved an additional half-
cent tax for transportation maintenance and improvements,
bringing the current sales tax rate in Rancho Cordova
to 8%. If Measure H is approved by the voters, Rancho
Cordova’s sales tax rate would increase to 8.5%.

Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination of
“sales and use tax” and “transactions and use tax.” With
some exceptions, both are levied on the sale or use of
tangible personal property sold at retail. Retailers collect the
tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board
of Equalization, which administers the tax.

Measure H would authorize a 0.50% transactions and use
tax, increasing the total sales tax rate in Rancho Cordova to
8.5%. Revenue from the tax would go to the City’s general
fund and be available to support the full range of municipal
services.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve a half-cent sales tax.
A “No” vote is a vote against the tax. Measure H would be
approved if it received a simple majority of “Yes” votes.

DATED: July 29, 2014

s/Adam Lindgren, City Attorney
City of Rancho Cordova

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE H

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF RANCHO CORDOVA DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Incorporation of Recitals. The People of
Rancho Cordova find that all Recitals are true and correct
and are incorporated herein by reference.

SECTION 2. Amendment of Municipal Code. The Rancho
Cordova Municipal Code is hereby amended to add
Chapter 3.05 to read as follows:

3.05.010-Title.

This Ordinance shall be known as the Rancho Cordova
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Rancho
Cordova hereinafter shall be called "City." This Ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.05.020	- Operative Date.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of this Ordinance, the date of such adoption being
as set forth below.

3.05.030	- Purpose.

This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof
be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accor-
dance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which
authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at
an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the require-
ments and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that
can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative proce-
dures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
can be administered in a manner that will be, to the

greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this Ordinance.

3.05.040	- Contract With State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with
the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions inci-
dent to the administration and operation of this transactions
and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not
have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the
first calendar quarter following the execution of such a con-
tract.

3.05.050	- Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property
at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half
of one percent (0.5%) on the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the
operative date of this Ordinance.

3.05.060	- Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place
of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

3.05.070	- Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date
of this Ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in
said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of
the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

3.05.080 - Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

3.05.090 - Limitations on Adoption of State Law and
Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to
as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be
substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not
be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the
State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury,
or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to
be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer,
or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the func-
tions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance;

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limit-
ed to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of
the State of California, where the result of the substi-
tution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not other-
wise be exempt from this tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain subject to
tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, stor-
age, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State"
in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State"
in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

3.05.100 - Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this
Ordinance.

3.05.110 - Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales
tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or
the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used

or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is
shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the
contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retail-
er or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a
carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code by registration to an out-of-City address and
by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or
her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration
to a place of business out-of-City and declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a con-
tinuing sale of such property, for any period of time for
which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative
date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, the sale or lease of tangible personal proper-
ty shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this

Ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this

City of tangible personal property:

I.The gross receipts from the sale of which have been
subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for
hire or compensation under a certificate of public con-
venience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign govern-
ment. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3. If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property
for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into

prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
a lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be required
to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible per-
sonal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the City or participates within the City
in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the
retailer in the City or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the
City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also
include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (com-
mencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocu-
mented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle,
vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may
credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimburse-
ment for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to
the use tax.

3.05.120 - Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of
this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
Ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
Ordinance.

3.05.130 - Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any

court against the State or the City, or against any officer of
the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of
tax required to be collected.

3.05.140 - Annual Audit.

Annually the City Council retains an independent audi-
tor to conduct an audit of and provide audited financial
statements for all of the City’s financial activities. The audi-
tor shall include an accounting of the revenue received from
the tax in the audited financial statements. The auditor’s
report shall be presented to the Council and made available
to the public.

3.05.150 - Amendments by City Council.

The following amendments to this Chapter must be
approved by the voters of the City: increasing the tax rate or
revising the methodology for calculating the tax such that a
tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions
and uses not previously subject to the tax (unless such
amendment occurs automatically by operation of Section
12); or extending the tax. The City Council may otherwise
amend this Chapter without submitting the amendment to
the voters for approval.

3.05.160 - Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Ordinance
shall continue until this ordinance is repealed by a majority
vote of the voters of the City, or until it is repealed or sus-
pended or by a majority vote of the City Council, in the event
that the City Council repeals or suspends the tax, it may
resume collection without voter approval as long as the
transactions tax rate and use tax rate are not higher than
the rates set forth in Sections 3.05.050 and 3.050.070,
respectively.

SECTION 3. Adjustment of Appropriations Limit. Pursuant
to Article XIIIB of the Constitution of the State of California
and applicable laws, the appropriations limit for the City is
hereby increased by the aggregate sum authorized to be
levied by this tax for fiscal year 2014-15 and each year
thereafter.

SECTION 4.	Compliance with the California Environmental

Quality Act. The approval of this Ordinance is exempt from
the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources
Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§
15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). This Ordinance impos-
es a general tax that can be used for any legitimate govern-
mental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular
action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4),
the ordinance is not a project within the meaning of CEQA
because it creates a government funding mechanism that
does not involve any commitment to any specific project
that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on
the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a
purpose that would have either such effect, the city would
undertake the required CEQA review for that particular proj-
ect. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section
15060, CEQA analysis is not required.

SECTION 5. Severability. If any provision of this Ordi-
nance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance relates to
the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use
taxes and shall take effect immediately.

The foregoing Ordinance was approved by the following
vote of the People of the City of Rancho Cordova on November
4, 2014:

YESES:

NOES:

The foregoing Ordinance was adopted by Declaration
of the vote at the November 4, 2014 election by the City
Council of the City of Rancho Cordova on
______________________________, 2014:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Dan Skoglund, Mayor

ATTEST:

Mindy Cuppy, MMC, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Adam U. Lindgren, City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

Voting Yes on H will allow the City of Rancho Cordova to
increase neighborhood police services, enhance anti-gang
and youth violence prevention programs, and fund improve-
ments along Folsom Boulevard with the removal of blighted
buildings and additional community police patrols.

Rancho Cordova became a city in 2003 because we were
tired of settling for less while other areas got attention and
resources. We immediately got to work on what was impor-
tant to us. We began removing eyesore vehicles from city
streets, brought street sweeping back, improved neglected
parks, and reduced violent crime. You voted for local control
and by working together we have balanced the budget
every year and continued to provide the vital city services
that make the City of Rancho Cordova a great place to live,
work, and play.

But it is time to do more. With our economy improving, now
is the perfect time to invest in Rancho Cordova's future. It is
time for Measure H. Measure H will provide the funding
necessary to improve our infrastructure, fix streets faster,
remove vacant buildings and finally revitalize the Folsom
Boulevard corridor.

By voting Yes on Measure H, the City of Rancho Cordova
will have the ability to fund new investments in our commu-
nity. Measure H will give us the resources needed to
expand after-school programs for our children and teens or
build and repair recreation facilities for seniors, veterans,
and children.

This measure provides local control over funds. No funds
can be taken by the state!

Rancho Cordova is a great city full of resourceful families
and proud neighborhoods with rich histories. Measure H
will enable Rancho Cordova to forge lasting solutions that
will benefit our neighborhoods for years to come and create
a stronger city. Join us in showing your Rancho Cordova
hometown pride, by voting Yes on Measure H.

The undersigned proponent(s) or author(s) of the primary
argument in favor of ballot measure H at the General
Municipal Election for the City of Rancho Cordova to be
held on Tuesday, November 4, 2014 hereby state this argu-
ment is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and
belief.

s/Robert J. McGarvey, Rancho Cordova Vice-Mayor

s/Guy Anderson, Cordova High School Baseball Coach

s/Kevin Mickelson, President Sacramento County Deputy
Sheriffs’ Association

s/Karen Anderson, Rancho Cordova Business Owner
s/Zak Ford, President Folsom Cordova School Board

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE H

Measure H is supported by a broad coalition of dedicated
homeowners, community leaders, and business owners
because we are proud of Rancho Cordova and are willing to
work to make our city better. Voting Yes on Measure H
keeps our city moving in the right direction.

Yes on H is about local control. We voted to become a city
so we could take control of what happened in Rancho
Cordova. We became a city to guarantee that local money
stayed right here in our neighborhoods. No funds generated
by Measure H can be taken by the State or County.

Measure H is the necessary next step for our City, directly
benefiting everyone in Rancho Cordova, allowing our proud
city to invest in youth violence prevention, improve police
protection, and expand community centers and parks.

Local business owners know that to attract new business,
restaurants, and entertainment, we need to revitalize
Folsom Boulevard. Rancho Cordova homeowners know
that to reduce crime and to increase property values,
we need to revitalize the Folsom corridor and improve
neighborhood policing. Measure H provides us with the
resources to directly address areas in Rancho Cordova that
we all agree need improving.

If you believe that Rancho Cordova is headed in the right
direction and want to take this opportunity to make the

improvements that our community deserves, please stand
alongside your neighbors and vote Yes on Measure H.
Join us as we show our hometown pride and vote Yes on
Measure H.

The undersigned proponent(s) or author(s) of the primary
rebuttal argument in favor of ballot measure H at the
General Municipal Election for the City of Rancho Cordova
to be held on Tuesday, November 4, 2014 hereby state this
argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge
and belief.

s/Robert J. McGarvey, Rancho Cordova Vice-Mayor

s/Mark Baxter, Deputy Sheriff, Rancho Cordova Police
Department

s/Zak Ford, President Folsom Cordova School Board
s/George Burnash, Rancho Cordovan of the Year 2014

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

Vote NO because this 8.5% sales tax will make Rancho
Cordova more expensive than our neighbors: Citrus Heights,
Folsom, Fair Oaks, Carmichael, Elk Grove, Orangevale. This
will hurt Rancho Cordova, extracting over $5 million per year
from the local economy draining local businesses and jobs.

Vote NO because this is a blank check for local politicians
with no expiration. The measure is misleading, with no
requirement it be spent on "safety", "blight", or the items
mentioned. Let City Council put a 'special tax' with expira-
tion on the ballot instead, so there will be accountability how
funds are spent.

Vote NO because last year City Council gave $6.4 million in
public assets to a private company (not based in Rancho
Cordova) as part of a risky investment which has not seen
returns. They are already asking the public to pay more,
when those millions could have been prioritized for "safety"
or "blight".

Vote NO because City Council is not demonstrating fiscal
responsibility to be trusted with a blank check. Any increase
in the tax rate simply accelerates the rate of City spending.
City leaders must be accountable to prioritize spending from
revenue under the existing tax structure.

Signed:

The undersigned proponent(s) or author(s) of the primary
argument against ballot measure H at the General Municipal
Election of the City of Rancho Cordova to be held on Tuesday,
November 4, 2014 hereby state this argument is true and
correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

s/Steven Vincent
Date: 8/6/2014

s/Lynn Keay
Date: 8/7/2014

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE H WAS FILED