COUNTY

OF

SAN LUIS OBISPO

CONSOLIDATED GENERAL ELECTION

NOVEMBER 4, 2014

VOTER INFORMATION GUIDE

VOTE

PREPARED BY:

JULIE L. RODEWALD, County Clerk-Recorder
County of San Luis Obispo
Elections Division
1055 Monterey Street, D120
San Luis Obispo, CA 93408
805-781-5228

VOTER INFORMATION GUIDE

FEDERAL, STATE AND JUDICIAL CONTESTS	1

Candidate Statements

Congressional Representative	3

Member of the Assembly	4

STATE PROPOSITIONS	6

SCHOOL CONTESTS & CANDIDATE STATEMENTS	7

Cuesta College- Trustee Area 4	8

Atascadero USD	9

Coast USD	10

Paso Robles USD	12

SCHOOL MEASURES	15

SLO County Community College District Measure L-14	16

Atascadero Unified School District Measure B-14	24

San Luis Coastal Unified School District Measure D-14	31

Santa Maria-Bonita School District Measure T-14	39

COUNTY CONTESTS & CANDIDATE STATEMENTS	55

4th District Supervisor	56

County Clerk-Recorder	58

CITY CONTESTS & CANDIDATE STATEMENTS	60

Arroyo Grande	61

Atascadero	63

Grover Beach	67

Paso Robles	69

Pismo Beach	75

San Luis Obispo	78

CITY MEASURES	82

Arroyo Grande Measure C-14	83

Atascadero Measure E-14	89

Atascadero Measure F-14	91

Grover Beach Measure K-14	99

Morro Bay Measure J-14	106

Pismo Beach Measure H-14	112

Pismo Beach Measure 1-14	117

San Luis Obispo Measure G-14	119

SPECIAL DISTRICT CONTESTS & CANDIDATE STATEMENTS	131

Port San Luis Harbor District	132

Cambria Community Services District	135

Heritage Ranch Community Services District	138

Los Osos Community Services District	139

Templeton Community Services District	143

MEASURES TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
CITY		
CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE		CITY OF MORRO BAY
MEASURE C-14  Shall the charter be adopted making the City of Arroyo Grande a charter city so that the laws of the City of Arroyo Grande shall prevail over state law with respect to the management of municipal affairs?		MEASURE J-14  Shall the Morro Bay Municipal Code be amended to change the time and method of electing the Mayor and City Council Members to allow for a single election in November on the date of the statewide general election with the candidates receiving the highest number votes of the ballots cast being elected to the open positions?  O YES O NO
O YES O NO		

CITY OF ATASCADERO

MEASURE E-14
ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

If the voters of the City of Atascadero approve a one half
cent limited term general sales tax increase, should the
additional revenues be used for the purpose of repairing
and maintaining neighborhood roads and other roadways?

O YES	Q NO

MEASURE F-14

To provide funding that cannot be seized by the State, and
will stay in Atascadero to be used for such things as the
repair of neighborhood roads and aging roadways along
with other vital City needs - Shall the City of Atascadero’s
sales tax rate be temporarily increased to include a local
general sales tax of one-half cent, for a period of 12 years,
with citizen committee oversight, published annual
reporting and independent financial audits?

O YES	O NO

CITY OF PISMO

MEASURE H-14

Shall the Initiative of the People of the City of Pismo Beach
Amending the City's General Plan to Alter Development
Standards within the City's Sphere of Influence in Planning
Area R and Other Specified Areas be adopted?

O YES	O NO

MEASURE 1-14

The Pismo Beach Vital Public Service Protection
Measure. To continue to help preserve, enhance and
improve the infrastructure, safety and character of Pismo
Beach, shall an ordinance be adopted to extend the
existing one-half cent increase to the City of Pismo Beach
sales tax, approved by the voters in 2008, for a period of
twelve (12) years?

O YES	O NO

CITY OF GROVER BEACH

MEASURE K-14

GROVER BEACH STREET REHABILITATION; SAFETY
IMPROVEMENT BOND MEASURE: To

rehabilitate/resurface deteriorating residential and major
streets to improve drivability; maintain emergency
response times; enhance safety for pedestrians, bicyclists,
drivers, neighborhood school crosswalks; and promote
economic/job growth; shall the City incrementally issue up
to $48,000,000 of bonds at tax-exempt interest rates,
requiring funds go directly into the Street Construction
Designated Fund with all funds used exclusively for Grover
Beach streets; subject to independent audits/citizens’
oversight committee?

O YES	O	NO

CITY OF SAN LUIS OBISPO

MEASURE G-14

To protect and maintain essential services and facilities --
such as open space preservation; bike lanes and
sidewalks; public safety; neighborhood street paving and
code enforcement; flood protection; senior programs; and
other vital services and capital improvement projects -
shall the City’s Municipal Code be amended to extend the
current one-half percent local sales tax for eight years, with
independent annual audits, public goal-setting and
budgeting, and a Citizens’ Oversight Commission?

O YES	O	NO

CITY OF SAN LUIS OBISPO
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G-14

ORDINANCE NO. 1604 (2014 Series)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL AND THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY
OF SAN LUIS OBISPO, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING CHAPTER 3.15 OF THE MUNICIPAL
CODE TO EXTEND THE EXISTING "ESSENTIAL SERVICES TRANSACTIONS
(SALES) AND USE TAX," FOR AN ADDITIONAL EIGHT YEARS (MARCH 31, 2023), TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION; UPDATE THE
PURPOSE STATEMENT; AND PROVIDE FOR ADDITIONAL CITIZEN
OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTING TRANSPARENCY.

WHEREAS, in 2006, the voters of San Luis Obispo approved the San Luis Obispo
Essential Services Measure (also commonly known as Measure Y, its 2006 ballot designation)
with 64.77% of the vote, establishing a half-cent per dollar sales tax to address fiscal
challenges including State takeaways totaling more than $22 million over the prior 15 years,
and ongoing State funding reductions of $3 million annually; and

WHEREAS, the purpose of Measure Y was to secure a local revenue source to
protect and maintain essential community services such as neighborhood street paving
and pothole repair, traffic congestion relief, police protection, fire and paramedic
services, flood protection, senior citizen services and facilities, neighborhood code
enforcement, open space preservation and other vital general purpose services; and

WHEREAS, the voter's approval of Measure Y in 2006 allowed the City to: restore
its neighborhood paving and flood protection programs; restore sworn police positions that had
been cut, as well as restore the City's Fire Marshal to a full-time position; and restore its open
space acquisition program, aiding in the purchase of portions of the Irish Hills, Stenner
Canyon, and Reservoir Canyon natural reserves; and also gave the City the ability to provide
added services for residents, including hiring two neighborhood services specialists, hiring two
downtown daytime police patrol officers, and hiring a ranger services maintenance worker;
and

WHEREAS, the City’s financial challenges continued after the adoption of Measure
Y due to the Great Recession - which impacted all of the City’s major revenue sources
including property tax, transient occupancy tax, and sales tax - but even during the Great
Recession, the City was still able to maintain a high level of service for its residents; and,

WHEREAS, due to Measure Y revenue and the financial stability created by City
actions - including (1) compensation reductions agreed to by employees saving the City over
$3 million in ongoing, annual savings, and (2) pension reform efforts that require employees
to pay their share of pension costs, and implementation of three tiers of retirement benefits so
that, over time, the cost to the City for retirement benefits for new public employees will be
significantly reduced - the City has invested in new Capital Improvement Projects, such as
the Santa Rosa Skate Park, the Bob Jones Trail bridge at Los Osos Valley Road, and is in a
position to make new open space acquisitions in the City’s greenbelt; and

WHEREAS, the City Council appointed a 10-person citizen advisory committee to
analyze the City’s stewardship of Measure Y resources and report back to the City Council
with its recommendations, and following several meetings, a public opinion survey, a public
open house, and deliberations among the committee members, the committee recommended
that the City Council place a measure before the voters to extend the Essential Services
Sales and Use Tax for another eight years; and

WHEREAS, the City’s Essential Services Sales and Use Tax includes substantial
accountability measures including: requirements for independent annual financial audits;
integration of use of funds into the City’s budget and goal-setting process; annual community
reports; and annual citizen engagement meetings; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to include additional accountability measures,
including a Citizen’s Revenue Enhancement Oversight Commission and a new Fiscal
Responsibility Philosophy to increase transparency and accountability and to ensure the
expenditure of revenue measure funds in alignment with evolving community priorities, as
defined through citizen engagement and City Council direction; and

WHEREAS, the City's Essential Services Transactions (Sales) and Use Tax
Ordinance is found in Chapter 3.15 of the City's Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, Section 3.15.03 of this Chapter sets forth a expiration date of March
31, 2015, at which time Chapter 3.15 will expire, unless extended by the voters of the City at
an election called for that purpose; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to place a measure before the voters in the
November 2014 General Election to extend the City's existing one-half percent Transactions
and Use Tax, Chapter 3.15, for another eight years, to March 31, 2023.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council and the People of the
City of San Luis Obispo as follows:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.15 of the City’s Municipal Code is hereby amended and
re-enacted in full to read as follows:

Chapter 3.15

ESSENTIAL SERVICES TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX
3.15.010 Title.

This chapter shall be known as the “city of San Luis Obispo essential services transactions
(sales) and use tax ordinance.” The city of San Luis Obispo hereinafter shall be called the
“city.” This chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the city.

3.15.020	Purpose.

This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To protect and maintain essential services and facilities— such as open space preservation;
bike lanes, sidewalks and other traffic congestion relief projects; public safety; neighborhood
street paving and code enforcement; flood protection; senior citizen programs including
services and facilities; and other vital general purpose services and capital improvement
projects —by extending a general purpose retail transactions and use tax of one-half percent in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which authorizes the
city to adopt this general purpose tax chapter, which shall be operative if two-thirds of the
council and a majority vote of the electors voting on the measure, vote to approve the
extension of this general purpose revenue source at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the sales and use tax law of the state of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

120

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in
a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State sales and use taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that can be administered in a manner that
will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time minimize the burden of recordkeeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

3.15.030 Eight-year sunset.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this chapter shall expire in eight years, on March 31,
2023, unless extended by the voters.

3.15.040	Fiscal accountability provisions—Citizen oversight and independent annual
financial audits.

Along with the city’s ongoing commitment to citizen involvement as a fundamental principle of
good government, specific citizen oversight and fiscal accountability provisions are hereby
established as follows:

A.	Revenue Enhancement Oversight Commission. A citizen’s commission will be
established to provide transparency and maximize City accountability. The
Commission will be responsible for reviewing and making budget recommendations
directly to the City Council regarding expenditures from the essential services
transactions (sales) and use tax, and reporting annually to the community on the
City's use of these tax revenues.

B.	Accounting and Tracking Expenditures. The funds collected through the City of
San Luis Obispo essential services transactions (sales) and use tax ordinance shall
be accounted for and tracked by the City Treasurer separately to facilitate citizen
oversight.

C.	Independent Annual Financial Audit. The amount generated by this general
purpose revenue source and how it was used shall be included in the annual audit of
the city’s financial operations by an independent certified public accountant.

D.	Integration of the Use of Funds into the City’s Budget and Goal-Setting
Process. The estimated revenue and proposed use of funds generated by this
measure shall be an integral part of the city’s budget and goal-setting process, and
significant opportunities will be provided for meaningful participation by citizens in
determining priority uses of these funds.

E.	Annual Community Report. A written report shall be reviewed at a public hearing by
the Revenue Enhancement Oversight Commission, and a summary will be provided
annually to every household in the community detailing how much revenue is being
generated by the measure and how funds are being spent.

F.	Annual Citizen Oversight Meeting. An invitation will be extended each year to the
entire community inviting them to participate in a forum to review and discuss the use
of the revenue generated by this measure. City staff will also be available to meet
with any group that requests a specific briefing with their members to discuss and
answer questions about the revenues generated by the measure and their uses.

3.15.050 Transactions (sales) tax rate.

121

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the city at the rate of one-half percent of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this chapter.

3.15.060	Use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the city of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this
chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half percent of
the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.15.070	Operative

“Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than one
hundred ten days after the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter.

3.15.080	Contract with state.

Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use
tax chapter; provided, that if the city shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such
a contract.

3.15.090	Place of sale.

For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.15.100 Adoption of provisions of state law.

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions
of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.

3.15.110	Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the state of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this city shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “state” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

122

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the state of California, where the result
of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage,
use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the state under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;
or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property, which would not be subject
to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “city” shall be substituted for the word “state” in the phrase “retailer engaged in
business in this state” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203. (Ord.
1495 § 11, 2006)

3.15.120 Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this chapter.

3.15.130 Exemptions and exclusions.

The following transactions shall be exempted and excluded:

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the state of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county
in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the
laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a point
outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment
to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this section, delivery to a
point outside the city shall be satisfied:

123

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-city address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property, which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (B)(3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage, use or other
consumption in this city of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (C)(3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power

124

over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subsection (C)(7) of this section, a retailer engaged
in business in the city shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers
the property into the city or participates within the city in making the sale of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the city or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person
in the city under the authority of the retailer.

7.	A retailer engaged in business in the city shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel or
aircraft at an address in the city.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.15.140	Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all
amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this chapter; provided, however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter.

3.15.150	Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action or proceeding in any court against the state or the city, or against any officer of the state
or the city, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 2. A summary of this ordinance, together with the names of Council
members voting for and against, shall be published at least five (5) days prior to its final
passage, in The Tribune, a newspaper published and circulated in this City. This ordinance
shall go into effect upon adoption by the voters.

125

In 2006, 64.77 percent of City of San Luis Obispo voters approved Measure Y-06, which
adopted Chapter 3.15 (ESSENTIAL SERVICES TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX)
into the City’s Municipal Code. Measure Y-06 authorized an additional 'A percent City sales
tax, which is currently included in the eight percent total sales tax rate applicable in the City.
Since its effective date, April 1, 2007, the tax has generated an average of approximately $5.2
million in annual revenue to the City, through audited fiscal year 2012-13. Measure Y-06
approved a “general purpose tax,” meaning that all revenue raised from the tax can be used to
fund any City project, operation or service approved by the City Council.

Measure Y-06 provided: “The authority to levy the tax imposed by this chapter shall expire
eight years from the operative date of this chapter, unless extended by the voters.” Unless
Measure G-14 is approved by a majority of City voters voting in the November 2014 election,
the current 'A percent local tax will expire after March 31, 2015 and the City will receive no
further revenue from the local tax.

Measure G-14 would amend Chapter 3.15 of the City’s Municipal Code to authorize the City to
continue to levy a 'A percent local sales tax for another eight years. Measure G-14 would
provide: “The authority to levy the tax imposed by this chapter shall expire in eight years, on
March 31, 2023, unless extended by the voters.”

Measure G-14 would continue the following fiscal accountability provisions included in Measure
Y-06: 1) independent annual financial audit; 2) integration of the use of funds into the City’s
budget and goal setting process; 3) annual citizen oversight meeting.

Measure G-14 would add the following fiscal accountability requirements to Chapter 3.15:1) “A
citizen’s commission will be established to provide transparency and maximize City
accountability. The Commission will be responsible for reviewing and making budget
recommendations directly to the City Council regarding expenditures from the essential
services transactions (sales) and use tax, and reporting annually to the community on the
City’s use of these tax revenues”; 2) “The funds collected through the City of San Luis Obispo
essential services transactions (sales) and use tax ordinance shall be accounted for and
tracked by the City Treasurer separately to facilitate citizen oversight.”

Measure G-14 would amend the existing annual community report requirement in Chapter 3.15
to require that “[a] written report shall be reviewed at a public hearing by the Revenue
Enhancement Oversight Commission, and a summary will be provided annually to every
household in the community detailing how much revenue is being generated by the measure
and how funds are being spent.”

A “yes” vote on Measure G-14 means the City will continue to levy a 'A percent local sales tax
for another eight years. A “no” vote means that the current A percent local sales tax will expire
and the City will not collect a local 'A percent tax after March 31,2015.

si J. Christine Dietrick

City Attorney, City of San Luis Obispo

126

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G-14

Approving Measure G would renew the half-percent sales tax that has paid for essential
improvements in city services since San Luis Obispo voters overwhelmingly approved it in
2006. This revenue has been crucial in preserving and enhancing the quality of life in our city.

Measure G will keep San Luis Obispo moving in the right direction, and we urge you to vote
Yes.

Measure G does not increase taxes. It simply renews a tax that voters overwhelmingly
approved in 2006.

In all, the half-percent tax has generated about $6.5 million a year, equal to 12% of the city's
operating budget.

Importantly, about 72% of the tax has been paid by visitors, not by residents.

We believe city officials have been responsive to residents’ needs and priorities, and have
invested wisely. The revenue has enabled the city to fix potholes and resurface streets; to
acquire open space and improve public parks; to increase and improve bike lanes, and to add
police officers to enhance safety downtown and reduce noise in neighborhoods. Annual audits
have verified these facts.

And for greater accountability, City Council said the tax should be put to voters for re-approval
after eight years. That time has come.

Renewal will reinforce the city’s financial stability, and, importantly, these tax dollars will remain
under local control. Additionally, a special citizens’ oversight commission will be created to
monitor future spending and ensure that the revenue will continue to support essential
services, such as police and fire protection, senior programs, park maintenance, street repair
and open-space acquisition.

As parents and grandparents, as environmentalists and business owners, as concerned
citizens and as your neighbors, we enthusiastically support renewal of this half-percent sales
tax for another eight years. We strongly urge you to vote Yes on Measure G.

si Patricia Andreen,

City advisory body member; former school board president
si June Mclvor,

Arts advocate; youth sports organizer; attorney
si Clint Pearce,

President, Madonna Enterprises; past chair, SLO City Tourism Business Improvement District
si Pierre Rademaker,

Small business owner; past president, SLO Downtown Association
s/Andrea Pease,

Architect; founding member, SLO Green Build

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR PRINTED ON NEXT PAGE

127

Ready to write another $1,500 check to City Hall? That’s what Measure Y’s broken promises
cost your household, says the Chamber of Commerce.

With Y, City Hall promised much, but delivered little on those promises.

They promised neighborhood improvements. They spent only $10,000 annually fixing
dangerous neighborhood sidewalks, but $1,500,000 for fancy designer sidewalks downtown
and motel row. Seven years later -- neighborhood sidewalks remain dangerous.

They promised neighborhood flood maintenance. Target’s developers got six figures of flood
funds. Seven years later -- neighborhood culverts remain dangerously clogged.

During Y, City Hall subsidized developers with sweetheart deals for YOUR public property. One
developer got prime downtown PUBLIC land, appraised at $8,800,000, for just $1,100,000, and
rented TAXPAYER-OWNED retail space for $0.85 per foot when nearby rents approach $4.

Another developer got a $1,860,000 fee waiver and $500,000 “loan” FROM TAXPAYERS.
Chevron, the oil giant which hardly needs your help, may get as much as $20,000,000 from
CITY TAXPAYERS to develop a toxic site.

IS THIS WHAT YOU VOTED FOR?

Nor did they tell you Y would finance $6,000,000 a year in higher city salaries, and 23 pensions
above $100,000!

City Hall knows you're unhappy with Y’s broken promises. So they hired a pollster, who told
them: Talk about “accountability.”

Measure Y also promised “citizen oversight and independent annual financial audits,” but look
how ineffective that was!

New talk of “accountability” is just electioneering.

THIS TAX CAN BE SPENT FOR ANYTHING!

Don’t be fooled again.

Vote NO on G.

www.NoOnG.net

si Peg Pinard,

Former SLO Mayor/Former SLO County Board of Supervisors Chairperson
si Richard Schmidt,.

Teacher/Former SLO Planning Commissioner

128

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G-14

Don’t be fooled again!

Measure G is the “new” Measure Y - just another tax.

G’s proponents promise to use it to preserve open space, make traffic flow, polish tarnished
neighborhoods, and pave streets. Who’s not for that?

They promised the same with Y, but promises weren’t kept. That’s because THIS TAX CAN BE
SPENT FOR ANYTHING, so election-time promises are meaningless sales pitches, derived
from years of polls paid for by you, the city taxpayer, to discover what you’ll vote for.

Review of Measure Y expenditures shows voters didn’t get what they believed they’d get.

Y collected $6,000,000+ a year. Where did it go? Spending for open space, traffic relief, and
street construction didn’t change much before and after Y’s passage.

WHAT CHANGED WAS SPENDING ON CITY SALARIES AND PENSIONS. Salaries grew
about $6,000,000 per year, essentially absorbing Y’s tax proceeds. The city compensates too
generously: our city manager earns 28% more than the Governor, her predecessor has a
$159,000 pension.

This pattern will NOT change under G. And deceptive new promises of “accountability”
CANNOT GUARANTEE WHAT IS FUNDED. The city’s budget shows future intent: next year
2% of Y’s funds go for traffic relief, 3% for open space, 4% for neighborhoods, and 91% for
general government expenses including bloated salaries and pensions.

Proponents claim without G the city will lack funds to operate at high standards. Really? The
city banks a huge cash reserve - equal to about 34% of its annual expenditures. This “surplus”
accumulated year after year, even during the Recession, while the city talked about being
broke.

Measure Y’s account runs its own unspent cumulative surplus - $4,300,000 was carried
forward last year. This city’s not broke.

Its public trust, however, is broken.

Don’t befooled again.

Please vote NO on G

s/ Peg Pinard,

Former SLO Mayor/Former SLO County Board of Supervisors Chairperson
si Richard Schmidt,

Teacher/Former SLO Planning Commissioner
si T. Keith Gurnee,

Urban Designer/Former Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST PRINTED ON NEXT PAGE

129

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G-14

The opponents’ analysis and related arguments are simply wrong. Here’s what really
happened and why this half-percent tax deserves your support.

Before Measure Y, previous recessions and ongoing state takeaways of local funds had forced
SLO to suspend neighborhood-street paving, cut police and fire positions, stop funding open-
space preservation and halt flood-protection programs.

In response, the 2006 ballot said these revenues would be used for:

“sfreef paving and pothole repair; traffic congestion relief; public safety ...;
flood protection; senior citizen services/facilities; neighborhood code
enforcement; open-space preservation and other vital general purpose
services.”

This is exactly how the money was spent.

Based on independently audited figures as of June 30, 2013:

•	Streets: $11.6 million for street repair and sidewalk maintenance.

•	Traffic: $1.5 million on congestion relief and reduced accidents, including $700,000
for upgrading the LOVR interchange.

•	Public safety: $6.5 million for improved police and fire protection.

•	Flood protection: $5.7 million on storm-drain maintenance and creek protection.

•	Seniors: $378.400 for Senior Center improvements.

•	Neighborhood protection: $750.200 on stepped-up code enforcement.

•	Open-space preservation: $1.5 million to protect this essential resource.

These seven areas accounted for 90% of Measure Y spending. The remaining 10% has been
used for parks and other maintenance. The reserve now equals 20%, exactly as prescribed by
City policy.

Along with employees’ significant wage and pension concessions, which save $3.1 million
annually, Measure Y has meant increased spending on capital improvements that benefit all
residents.

Promises made, promises kept. Please vote YES on Measure G. Keep SLO Great.
si Lauren Brown,

Co-Chair Measures A&B/Citizens for Fiscal Responsibility, 2013 Citizen of the Year
si Eric Meyer,

Entrepreneur, San Luis Obispo County Planning Commissioner, Board Member San Luis
Obispo County Bicycle Coalition

si Linnaea Phillips,

Former Owner Linnaea’s Cafe, 1974 Citizen of the Year, Arts Advocate
si B.K. Richard,

Trustee of The Land Conservancy of San Luis Obispo County
si Dave Romero,

Former Mayor of San Luis Obispo 2002-2010

130