CHEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY. CALIF.

IN THE OFFICE OF THE

*

Ml

Resolution tt 2014-2015-2 for Fiscal Year 2014-2015

ESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
BURLINGAME ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CALLING FOR A NOVEMBER 4, 2014 ELECTION
TO CONSOLIDATE AND RENEW
ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT PARCEL TAXES

WHEREAS, the Burlingame Elementary School District (the "District") is devoted
to maintaining quality public education; and

WHEREAS, local property values within the District are related to the quality of
education available in the District’s public schools; and

WHEREAS, the State is an unreliable partner when it comes to funding education
and funding for our District has been reduced in the past several years, and together with
local property tax collections will be inadequate to provide the level of support to the
District’s educational programs that the residents of the District expect and the students need;
and

WHEREAS, stable local funding is needed to maintain our outstanding local schools;

and

WHEREAS, on March 2, 2010 the voters of the District renewed for the fourth time
authorized a "Local Elementary Student Achievement Measure B” ("Measure B”) parcel tax
of $ 180 which expires on June 30, 2021; and

WHEREAS, on November 8, 2011 the voters of the District authorized a
"Achievement Measure E” ("Measure E”) parcel tax of $76 which expires on June 30, 2016
(Measure B and together with Measure E, the "Parcel Taxes”), and unless the Parcel Taxes
are renewed by voters, may result in a substantial reduction of educational programs; and

WHEREAS, Article XIII A, Section 4 of the California Constitution and Sections
50075 et seq., of the California Government Code permit a school district to renew a special
education tax for specified purposes and to levy a parcel tax following approval by at least
two-thirds of the voters voting upon the proposition; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the "Board”) of the District proposes to renew
and consolidate the existing levy of the Measure B and Measure E parcel taxes upon parcels
of land within the District for the purposes set forth in this Resolution; and

WHEREAS, such renewal and consolidation will maintain the existing tax rate and
not increase the tax rate currently authorized by Measure B and Measure E; and

WHEREAS, such renewal and consolidation will maintain and preserve all existing
exemptions to Measure B and Measure E, without any further application being required
from those eligible persons; and

1

WHEREAS, the District will apply all the proceeds of such parcel tax to the
protection of core academic programs in science, math, reading and writing, the retention of
highly qualified teachers, the supporting of hands-on science classes and the music and art
programs, maintaining libraries and smaller elementary class si/e; and

WHEREAS, the Board seeks to consolidate and renew the Parcel Taxes because the
revenues of such can only benefit the District’s schools and cannot be taken by the State of
California or other school districts; and

WHEREAS, the Board has conducted a public hearing in connection with the
proposed election regarding the consolidation renewal of the parcel taxes prior to the
adoption of this Resolution;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Trustees of the
Burlingame Elementary School District as follows:

Section 1. This Board finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are true and

correct.

Section 2. This Board hereby proposes to consolidate, renew and extend the levy of
the Parcel Taxes to provide local funding the State cannot take away to:

•	Protect core academic programs in reading, writing, math and science;

•	Retain highly qualified teachers;

•	Maintain hands-on science classes;

•	Support art and music programs;

•	Maintain school libraries;

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ANY OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE
ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE PARCEL TAX BE USED FOR ADMINISTRATORS’
SALARIES AND BENEFITS.

Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1 the Board determines that the
proceeds of the quality local schools and academic achievement parcel tax shall only be
applied for the purposes stated above.

Section 3. The Parcel Taxes which will expire on June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2016,
respectively, shall be consolidated and renewed for fourteen years from July 1, 2016 at the
existing combined rate of $256 per parcel per year.

This parcel tax consolidates, renews and extends the qualified Measure B parcel tax
last approved by the voters on March 2, 2010 and the qualified Measure E parcel tax last
approved by the voters on November 8, 2011.

2

As used herein, the term "Parcel’' means any parcel of land which lies wholly or
partially within the boundaries of the District, for which the San Mateo County Assessor/Tax

provided, however, that any such parcels which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for
owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership,
may, by submitting an application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year to the District
be treated as a single parcel for purposes of the levy of this quality local schools and
academic excellence parcel tax.

Section 4. Subject to voter approval as set forth below, the parcel tax shall be levied
commencing with the 2016-2017 (starting on July 1, 2016) fiscal year of the District, and
shall be collected with, and in the same manner and subject to the same interest and penalties
as, general ad valorem taxes collected by the San Mateo County Tax Collector.
In accordance with the requirements of Government Code Section 50075.3, the District shall
create a separate account into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited.

Section 5. The levy and collection of the parcel tax is not intended to decrease or
offset any increase in local, state or federal government funding sources that would otherwise
be available to the District at any time during which the parcel tax may be levied. In the
event that the levy and collection of the parcel tax does have such an effect, the District shall
reduce the parcel tax levy to the extent of any such decrease or offset. Additionally, any
persons who are either (a) 65 years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year
immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the tax should apply, or (b) receiving
Supplemental Security Income for a disability regardless of age, and the owner of a Parcel
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes, may obtain an exemption
from the levy of the core academic programs parcel tax, by submitting an application of such
owners or persons, prior to June 15 of any year, to the District. Persons who currently receive
an exemption for the District’s Measure B parcel tax and/or the Measure E parcel tax, shall
automatically qualify for an exemption from the consolidation and renewal of the Parcel
Taxes without needing to file a new application for an exemption.

Section 6. The Board shall provide in each year (pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the
Government Code) for any increase in the District's appropriation limit as shall be necessary
to ensure that proceeds of the parcel tax may be spent for the authorized purposes set forth
in Section 2 above and Section 7 below.

Section 7. This Board hereby requests that the San Mateo County Registrar of Voters
submit, in accordance with Election Code Section 1500 by mail ballot, the following measure
to the voters of the District and to print this entire Full Ballot Text in the ballot pamphlet to
be published for the election scheduled for Tuesday, November 4, 2014:

Collector ("Tax Collector"), issues a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes;

BURLINGAME ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

Academic Achievement Funding Measure

3

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To provide local reliable funding for local schools that cannot be taken by the State,
to protect strong core academic programs in science, technology, reading and writing,
maintain libraries, support music and art programs, maintain hands-on science classes, and
retain highly qualified teachers, with no proceeds used for administrative salaries and
benefits, the Burlingame Elementary School District ("District”) proposes to consolidate,
renew and extend its two existing quality local schools and academic achievement parcel tax
measures, Measure B and Measure E, fora period of fourteen years from Measure E’s current
expiration date (June 30, 2016), starting on July 1, 2016 at the existing combined rate of
$256 per parcel per year, without increase, with an exemption available for senior citizens
and certain disabled persons, and to implement strict accountability measures, including
review by an independent citizen oversight committee to ensure the funds are used to:

•	Protect core academic programs in reading, writing, math and science;

•	Retain highly qualified teachers;

•	Maintain hands-on science classes;

•	Support art and music programs;

•	Maintain school libraries;

AMOUNT OF PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT

The academic achievement parcel tax shall continue to be levied at its existing $256
rate (or less as provided below) per year, without increase, commencing July 1, 2016 for
fourteen years, assessed against each Parcel. The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited
into a separate account created by the District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”

For purposes of the quality local schools and academic achievement parcel tax, the
term “Parcel” means any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries
of the Burlingame Elementary School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property tuxes from the San Mateo County Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that is
otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year
shall also be exempt from the quality local schools and academic achievement parcel tax in
such year.

For purposes of this quality local schools and academic achievement parcel tax, any
such "Parcels” which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-
family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting an
application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year to the District, be treated as a single
“parcel” for purposes of the levy of the quality local schools and academic achievement
parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

4

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners of a Parcel
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either (a) 65
years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the year
in which the tax would apply, or (b) persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a
disability, regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an
application therefore, by June 15 of any year, to the District. Persons currently exempted
from the District’s Measure B parcel tax and the District’s Measure E parcel tax which will
lapse on June 30, 2016 if this Measure is approved, shall automatically be exempted from
this Measure without having to tile a new application.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the San Mateo
County Tax Collector, or other appropriate County tax officials shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and
binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the quality local schools and academic
achievement parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption and the classification of
property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final and
binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the academic achievement parcel tax is not intended to decrease or
offset any increase in local, state or federal government revenue sources that would otherwise
be available to the District during the period of the parcel tax. In the event that the levy and
collection does have such an effect, the District may cease the levy or shall reduce the parcel
tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of the decrease or offset in other
revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections
50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to
the academic achievement parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific
purposes of the parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the
parcel tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate,
special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the quality local schools and
academic achievement parcel tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall
be made to the Board of Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected
and expended from the proceeds of the quality local schools and academic achievement
parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded
from the proceeds of the core academic instruction parcel tax, as identified above. In
addition, the District will maintain its existing Budget Advisory Committee which shall
advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that such
funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters.

^ *End of Full Ballot Text of Measure*

5

6

The abbreviated text of the ballot proposition with respect to the foregoing measure
shall read as follows:

“Without increasing current tax rates and to maintain quality education for Burlingame 12.
students, by protecting math, science, technology, reading and writing programs, retaining 11
qualified teachers, maintaining^ands-onl science classes, supporting art and music, | (j.
maintaining school libraries, and maintaining smaller elementary class sizes, shall ^ ^
Burlingame Elementary School Districf|eonsolidate and renew its existing $256 parcel taxes f
for 14 years, including a senior citizen exemption, no funds for administrators' sa|aries,
independent citizen oversight, and all funds staying local?” g

Yes	No_______

rlLCU CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY. CAUF.

JUl 2 4 2014

7

The District's Superintendent, or designee, is hereby authorized and directed to make
any changes to the text of the measure, or to the abbreviated form of the measure, as may be
convenient or necessary to comply with the intent of this Resolution, the requirements of
elections officials, and requirements of law.

Section 8. The measure set forth in Section 7 shall be submitted to the voters of the
District at an election to be held on November 4, 2014. If approved by at least two-thirds of
the voters voting on the Measure, the Measure shall take effect on July 1, 2016.

Section 9. This Resolution shall stand as the order to the San Mateo County Registrar
of Voters to call an election within the boundaries of the District on November 4, 2014. This
Board requests that the District election be consolidated with any and all elections to be held
within the boundaries of the District on November 4, 2014.

Section 10. The Board hereby requests that the San Mateo County Registrar of
Voters or other appropriate election officials of San Mateo County, take all actions which
are necessary or appropriate in connection with the election, including, but not limited to,
printing and mailing sample ballots, arguments and applications for absentee ballots,
canvassing election returns and certifying the results of the election to the Board. The Board
hereby agrees to reimburse San Mateo County in full for any services performed by San
Mateo County for the District upon presentation of an invoice to the District.

Section 11. The Secretary of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to deliver
a copy of this Resolution to the San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools and the
Registrars of Voters/Elections Department of San Mateo County, as well as the Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors of San Mateo County, not later than August 8, 2014, and to give notice
of the election by causing the Registrar of Voters/Elections Department to publish the text
of the measure and other items, not later than 15 days before the date of the election. The
Secretary of the Board is hereby further authorized and directed to post a copy of this
Resolution on or near the doors of the District Office and in three public places within the
District for at least two weeks before the date of the election.

Section 12. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this Resolution is for any
reason found to be invalid, such section, subsection, phrase or clause shall be severed from,
and shall not affect the validity of, all remaining portions of this Resolution which can be
given effect without the severed portion.

Section 13. The members of the Board are hereby authorized, but not directed, to
prepare and file with the San Mateo County Registrar of Voters/Election Department, a ballot
argument in favor of the proposition contained in Section 7 hereof, within the time
established by such Department.

Section 14. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the parcel tax shall be
collected by the San Mateo County Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be
subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Tax Collector.
The tax shall bear interest at the same rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

8

Section 15. Subject to two-thirds voter approval and prior to adoption of a resolution
levying the qualified special tax in any given year, this Board shall conduct a public hearing
on the matter. Notice of the time, date, and place of hearing shall be published pursuant to
California Government Code Section 54954.6. Following said hearing this Board may adopt
a resolution fixing the amount of tax to be raised. Any tax levied shall become a lien upon
the properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible.

Section 16. The Superintendent shall, pursuant to Government Code Section
50075.3, file an annual report as provided herein accounting for the quality local schools and
academic achievement parcel tax revenues collected and the manner in which they have been
spent.

Section 17. The officers of the District are, and each of them acting alone is, hereby
directed to take such other actions and to execute such other documents as are necessary to
carry out the purposes of this Resolution.

Section 18. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 10400 the Board requests the
governing body of any such other political subdivision, or any officer otherwise authorized
by law, to partially or completely consolidate such election and to further provide that the
canvass be made by any body or official authorized by law to canvass the returns of the
election, and that the Board consents to such consolidation.

9

The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Burlingame
Elementary School District at a regular meeting held on July 17, 2014 by the following vote:

AYES:	H

NOES:	-&

ABSTAIN:	■&"

ABSENT:

Burlingame Elementary School District

ATTE

Clerk, board ot Trustees
Burlingame Elementary School District

10

EXHIBIT A

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Burlingame Elementary School
District of San Mateo County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the
Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held on November 4, 2014,
at which election the following proposition shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the
District and voted upon:

"Without increasing current tax rates and to maintain quality education for Burlingame
students, by protecting math, science, technology, reading and writing programs, retaining
qualified teachers, maintaining hands-on science classes, supporting art and music,
maintaining school libraries, and maintaining smaller elementary class sizes, shall
Burlingame Elementary School District consolidate and renew its existing $256 parcel taxes
for 14 years, including a senior citizen exemption, no funds for administrators' salaries,
independent citizen oversight, and all funds staying local?”

The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools, by this Notice of Election, has
called the election pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Trustees of the Burlingame
Elementary School District, adopted on July 17, 2014.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day, July*^, 2014.

San Mateo County

A-l