Measure K

Cannabis Business Tax
Unincorporated Area

Majority Approval Required

Ballot Question:

To protect the quality of life in Santa Cruz County and to fund essential
county services such as police, fire, emergency response, health services,
youth and senior programs, job creation, housing, environmental protection,
and animal shelter programs; shall an ordinance be adopted to impose a tax
of no more than 10%	(7% when enacted) on gross receipts of cannabis

(medical marijuana) businesses in the unincorporated county, subject to
audits, with all funds staying local?

Fiscal Impact from County Auditor-Controller:

Measure K would authorize the County of Santa Cruz to add Chapter 4.06 to the County
Code, imposing a business tax of no more than 10% on the gross receipts of cannabis
[medical marijuana] businesses in the unincorporated areas of Santa Cruz County. The
rate would be set at 7% at the time of enactment. The cannabis business tax revenue
would be used solely for County general governmental purposes.

Fiscal Effect

A cannabis business tax at the proposed rate of 7% of gross receipts is estimated to
generate approximately $900,000 annually. The cannabis business is required to file a
statement of gross receipts, and pay the business tax on a monthly basis to the Office of
the County Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax Collector. A penalty plus interest will be
imposed if the tax is not paid timely.

Use of the Funds

All revenues from this business tax will be deposited into the County's General Fund,
and spent on essential general governmental services currently supplied by the County
such as sheriff, fire, emergency response, health services, parks, youth and senior
programs, animal shelter programs, economic development, affordable housing, and
other essential county services.

Accountability

The Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax Collector is the tax administrator, and has the
authority to examine the books and records of the cannabis businesses to verify the
accuracy of the statement of gross receipts that was filed and the business tax computed
thereon. The Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax Collector also has the authority to issue

an assessment to a cannabis business for the estimated amount of tax owed if a
statement is not filed and a tax is not paid by the business.

s/ MARY JO WALKER
Auditor-Controller
County of Santa Cruz

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel

If this measure is approved by a majority of those voting on it, an ordinance will be
added to the Santa Cruz County Code authorizing the County of Santa Cruz ["County") to
impose a tax on the gross receipts of cannabis (marijuana) businesses operating within
the unincorporated area of the County. The tax and the reporting requirements imposed
by the ordinance apply to the covered businesses, not to persons who purchase or
acquire cannabis from those businesses.

The purpose of the tax is to raise revenue for general governmental purposes, not for
regulatory purposes.

If enacted, the cannabis businesses are required to submit to the County Auditor-
Controller-Treasurer-Tax Collector monthly statements of their gross receipts, and pay
a resulting tax.

Definitions of "cannabis business" and "gross receipts" are set out in the ordinance, the
full text of which is printed elsewhere in the ballot pamphlet.

The rate of the tax at effective date of the ordinance would be seven percent (7%) of
gross receipts, and it authorizes the Board of Supervisors to set a maximum tax rate up
to ten percent (10%) of gross receipts.

Payment of the cannabis business tax would not authorize the conduct of any illegal or
unlawful business.

All revenues from this tax will be deposited into the County's general fund and may be
used for County governmental services including but not limited to police, fire,
emergency response, street maintenance and pothole repair, health services, parks,
libraries, youth and senior programs, animal programs, economic development and job
creation, and affordable housing.

The County Auditor-Controller-Treasurer-Tax Collector would determine whether the
penalties specified by the ordinance for delinquent tax should be imposed, and whether
exemptions apply or refunds are owing. Audits may be conducted to determine whether
additional tax is owed. Aside from monetary penalties for failure to pay the tax on time,
the ordinance declares that violation of its provisions constitutes a misdemeanor.

This tax measure is placed on the ballot by resolution of the County Board of
Supervisors.

A "yes" vote is to approve imposition of the cannabis business tax.
A "no" vote is against imposition of the cannabis business tax.

DANA McRAE, COUNTY COUNSEL
By Jane M. Scott, Assistant County Counsel

Arguments For Measure K

VOTE YES ON MEASURE K + THE CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

Santa Cruz County voters have overwhelmingly supported State and local laws for the
compassionate and safe use of medicinal cannabis (marijuana) by physician's
recommendation for over 20 years. Residents have strongly supported the need to
ensure safe access to medical cannabis for people in need.

As a result, Santa Cruz County worked successfully with neighborhood groups and local
industry representatives to create laws allowing cannabis to be responsibly cultivated,
distributed, delivered, dispensed, sold, or given away without creating a public
nuisance.

These laws respect the needs of medical patients, and their caregivers, as well as
legitimate medical cannabis businesses. They also protect our neighborhoods and land
from illegitimate operators who damage our forests, divert our streams, and act without
respect for our community.

However, the County needs additional revenues to ensure that environmental
protection, neighborhood integrity, and public safety are maintained.

The Cannabis Business Tax will provide new money for county services. It will be used
for many general purposes, such as:

•	public health and safety,

•	fire services,

•	environmental protection,

•	animal shelter and community programs, and

•	financial accountability.

All revenue collected will stay local, to protect and maintain our neighborhoods.

Voting Yes will not disadvantage low income persons, as there are resources for
income restricted patients to receive low or no cost medicine.

Measure K creates a business tax only for cannabis businesses, not all businesses.

Voting Yes will not establish any new cannabis businesses, as the existing businesses
are already allowed under State law and our local ordinance.

Measure K is supported unanimously by the Board of Supervisors and will help expand
and maintain essential services for county residents.

Join us in voting YES ON MEASURE K.

s/ Bruce McPherson

Santa Cruz County 5th District Supervisor
s/ Fred Keeley

President, Sempervirens Fund
s/ Betsy McCarty

Chief of Public Health, Santa Cruz County [Retired]
s/ Ben Rice*

Attorney for Association for Standardized Cannabis
s/ Karen Delaney
Community Volunteer

• Signing on behalf of the organization listed below the name.

Rebuttal to Arguments For

The Proponents Argument is deceptive, arguing for stigmatizing the compassionate use
of "medical" marijuana, using the theme of criminality, to justify their overly regressive
tax on its use. My lawsuit isn't just against their new tax, but against the existing 8.25%
tax that will increase to 18.25% if the voters approve Measure K. If approved only
"medical cannabis" patients are subjected to this clearly discriminatory tax.

Remember the City of Bell where the City leaders defrauded taxpayers and more
recently the King City Police Department. Criminality is drawn by the darkness in the
government that proceeds before the criminal element's arrival. Voters shouldn't be
deceived this isn't the gateway to legalization of recreational marijuana use that I
support and that should be taxed too, but at the same sales tax rate as everything else
you buy. My lawsuit also seeks that poor people and Medi-Cal patients should get their
medical marijuana free, and people who can afford it should be charged a co-pay like
any other medicine you buy.

I asked the voters to Vote No on Measure K, not for me but the "Grateful Dead". "A
traveler enters a village and finds the villagers desecrating, or refusing to bury the body
of a dead man because he died owing creditors money. The traveler pays the dead
man's debts and sees to a decent burial. Later in his travels, the man is saved by a
mysterious event, which is credited to the dead man's grateful spirit. Hence, the Grateful
Dead."

God bless.

s/ Michael Boyd
Taxpayer

Arguments Against Measure K

The Board of Supervisor unanimously approved June 10, 2014, a 10% sales tax, called
the "Cannabis Business Tax". A lawsuit was filed July 15, 2014 by local free speech and

civil rights advocate Michael Boyd which challenges the proposed 10% sales tax and
also challenges the existing 7% use tax imposed on "medical marijuana" based on the
State Board of Equalization's justification for the tax as "retail sales of marijuana and
any other illegal drugs or property, are subject to sales or use tax to the same extent as
is any lawful retail sale of tangible personal property". Just because something is illegal
doesn't make it legal to tax it. No statutory authority exists for such tax making it
unlawful.

Prior to passage by Congress of H.R. 4660 (2014) existing federal law prohibited the
manufacture, possession, sale or distribution of marijuana, including marijuana, as
within the definition of "medicine". H.R.4660 passed the House on May 30, 2014.

Section 542 defines "medical marijuana" thereby exempting it from federal drug
enforcement laws stating it "Prohibits the use of funds made available by this Act for
'preventing specified states from implementing their own laws authorizing the use,
distribution, possession, or cultivation of medical marijuana'".

Mr. Boyd said, "The Board of Supervisors think that it is OK to tax the medicine of
people who are seriously ill, many, near death, who get no relief from their suffering,
except through the relief medical marijuana brings them. The Board's action only serves
the forces of socioeconomic terrorism of the poor that comes from viewing people's
medicine as more money for cops, and the view their medical marijuana is an illegal
substance under federal law. Well not any more thanks to H.R. 4660. Please vote NO on
the Board's unlawful tax on "medical marijuana".

s/ Michael E. Boyd
Taxpayer

Rebuttal to Arguments Against

Don't be fooled by an argument that the County is legally prohibited from regulating or
taxing the sale of medical cannabis (marijuana).

The recent California Supreme Court decision in Riverside v. Inland Empire gives the
County broad authority to regulate safe, compassionate access to medical cannabis by
people in our community.

H.R. 4660, not currently law, simply states that any funds appropriated by the

Act cannot be used to prevent California from passing its own laws that authorize

the use, distribution, possession, or cultivation of medical marijuana.

The argument opposing this measure states that the County tax will be 10%. This is not
true. The tax initially will be 7% and any subsequent change will be subject to public
review.

Medical cannabis is legal in California and Santa Cruz. However, making sure that
growing and using it is done responsibly creates a financial burden on our County.

Medical cannabis is not just like every other medicine. The Sheriffs Office, Planning
Department, County Fire, and other County offices need to monitor the cultivation and
dispensing of this medicine.

County taxpayers should not have to pay for the services to protect our
community from illegitimate and illegal operators. It is only reasonable that
medical cannabis businesses help pay these costs, and in fact, the Association for
Standardized Cannabis, which represents most of these businesses, supports this
measure.

Low income patients will continue to have access to low or no cost medicine.

Join us in voting YES ON MEASURE K.
s/ Ben Rice*

Attorney for Association for Standardized Cannabis
s/ Neal Coonerty

Santa Cruz County 3rd District Supervisor
s/ John Leopold

Santa Cruz County 1st District Supervisor
s/ Katherine Beiers
Former Mayor, City of Santa Cruz
s/ Scott M. Jalbert

Chief, Santa Cruz County Fire Department

• Signing on behalf of the organization listed below the name.

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

COUNTY OF SANTA CRUZ

Cannabis Business Tax. To protect the quality of life in

K Santa Cruz County and to fund essential county services
such as police, fire, emergency response, health services,
youth and senior programs, job creation, housing,
environmental protection, and animal shelter programs; shall an
ordinance be adopted to impose a tax of no more than 10% (7%
when enacted) on gross receipts of cannabis (medical marijuana)
businesses in the unincorporated county, subject to audits, with
all funds staying local?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE K

CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA CRUZ:

Title 4 of the Santa Cruz County Code is hereby amended to add a new Chapter to
be numbered, entitled and to read as follows:

Chapter 4.06
CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

Sections:

4.06.010	Purpose of chapter.

4.06.020	Tax imposed.

4.06.030	Definitions.

4.06.040	Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees or charges.

4.06.050	Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business.

4.06.060	Payment - Location.

4.06.070	Amount of business tax owed.

4.06.080	Payment ■ Time limits.

4.06.090	Payments and communications made by mail ■ Proof of timely submittal.

4.06.100	Payment - When taxes deemed delinquent.

4.06.110	Notice not required by county.

4.06.120	Payment ■ Penalty for delinquency.

4.06.130	Waiver of penalties.

4.06.140	Refunds ■ Credits.

4.06.150	Refunds and procedures.

4.06.160	Exemptions ■ Application - Issuance conditions.

4.06.170	Exemptions - General.

4.06.180	Exemptions - Occasional transactions.

4.06.190	Enforcement ■ Duties of tax administrator and sheriff.

4.06.200	Rules and regulations.

4.06.210	Apportionment.

4.06.220	Audit and examination of records and equipment.

4.06.230	Tax deemed debt to county.

4.06.240	Deficiency determinations.

4.06.250	Tax assessment ■ Authorized when - Nonpayment ■ Fraud.

4.06.260	Tax assessment ■ Notice requirements.

4.06.270	Tax assessment ■ Hearing - Application and determination.

4.06.280	Conviction for chapter violation - Taxes not waived.

4.06.290	Violation deemed misdemeanor - Penalty.

4.06.300	Severability.

4.06.310	Effect of state and federal reference/authorization.

4.06.320	Remedies cumulative.

4.06.330	Amendment or repeal.

4.06.010	Purpose of chapter.

This chapter shall be known as the “cannabis business tax” and is enacted solely
to raise revenue for the general governmental purposes of the County and not for
purposes of regulation or of raising revenues for regulatory purposes. All of the
proceeds from the tax imposed by this chapter shall be placed in the County’s
general fund and used for the usual current expenses of the County.

4.06.020	Tax imposed.

There is established and imposed, a business tax at the rate set forth in this
chapter.

4.06.030	Definitions.

The definitions set forth in this part shall govern the application and interpretation of
this chapter.

(A)	“Business” shall include all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in
within the unincorporated area of the County, including any commercial or
industrial enterprise, trade, profession, occupation, vocation, calling, or livelihood,
whether or not carried on for gain or profit, but shall not include the services
rendered by an employee to his or her employer.

(C)	“Employee” means each and every person engaged in the operation or
conduct of any business, whether as owner, member of the owner’s family,
partner, associate, agent, manager or solicitor, and each and every other person
employed or working in such business for a wage, salary, commission or room and
board.

(D)	’’Engaged in business” means the commencing, conducting, operating,
managing or carrying on of a Cannabis business and the exercise of corporate or
franchise powers, whether done as owner, or by means of an officer, agent,
manager, employee, or otherwise, whether operating from a fixed location in the
unincorporated area of the county or coming into the unincorporated area of the
county from an outside location to engage in such activities. A person shall be
deemed engaged in business within the unincorporated area of the county area of
the county if:

(1)	Such person or person’s employee maintains a fixed place of business within
the unincorporated area of the county for the benefit or partial benefit of such
person;

(2)	Such person or person’s employee owns or leases real property within the
unincorporated area of the county for business purposes;

(3)	Such person or person’s employee regularly maintains a stock of tangible
personal property in the unincorporated area of the county for sale in the ordinary
course of business;

(4)	Such person or person’s employee regularly conducts solicitation of business
within the unincorporated area of the county;

(5)	Such person or person’s employee performs work or renders services in the
unincorporated area of the county on a regular and continuous basis involving
more than five working days per year;

(6)	Such person or person’s employee utilizes the streets within the unincorporated
area of the county in connection with the operation of motor vehicles for business
purposes.

The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the meaning of
“engaged in business.”

(E)	“Evidence of doing business” means whenever any person shall, by use of
signs, circulars, cards or any other advertising media, including the use of internet
or telephone solicitation, represent that such person is engaged in Cannabis
business in the unincorporated, area then these facts may be used as evidence
that such person is engaged in business in the unincorporated area.

(F)	“Gross receipts,” except as otherwise specifically provided, means the total
amount actually received or receivable from all sales; the total amount or
compensation actually received or receivable for the performance of any act or
service, of whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit allowed,
whether or not such act or service is done as a part of or in connection with the sale
of materials, goods, wares or merchandise; discounts, rents, royalties, fees,
commissions, dividends, and gains realized from trading in stocks or bonds,
however designated. Included in “gross receipts” shall be all receipts, cash, credits
and property of any kind or nature, without any deduction there from on account of
the cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service costs,

Santa Cruz County

44-501

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses whatsoever, except that the
following shall be excluded there from:

(1)	Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;

(2)	Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and which
property may later be sold, at which time the sales price shall be included as gross
receipts;

(3)	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and
collected from the consumer or purchaser;

(4)	Such part of the sale price of any property returned by purchasers to the seller
as refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit allowances or return of
refundable deposits previously included in gross receipts;

(5)	Receipts from investments where the holder of the investment receives only
interest and/or dividends, royalties, annuities and gains from the sale or exchange
of stock or securities solely for a person’s own account, not derived in the ordinary
course of a business;

(6)	Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete or surplus trade
fixtures, machinery or other equipment used by the taxpayer in the regular course
of the taxpayer’s business;

(7)	Cash value of sales, trades or transactions between departments or units of the
same business;

(8)	Whenever there are included within the gross receipts amounts which reflect
sales for which credit is extended and such amount proved uncollectible in a
subsequent year, those amounts may be excluded from the gross receipts in the
year they prove to be uncollectible; provided, however, if the whole or portion of
such amounts excluded as uncollectible are subsequently collected, they shall be
included in the amount of gross receipts for the period when they are recovered;

(9)	Transactions between a partnership and its partners;

(10)	Receipts from services or sales in transactions between affiliated
corporations. An affiliated corporation is a corporation:

(a)	The voting and non-voting stock of which is owned at least eighty percent by
such other corporation with which such transaction is had; or

(b)	Which owns at least eighty percent of the voting and non-voting stock of such
other corporation; or

(c)	At least eighty percent of the voting and non-voting stock of which is owned by a
common parent corporation which also has such ownership of the corporation with
which such transaction is had;

(11)	Transactions between a limited liability company and its member(s), provided
the limited liability company has elected to file as a Subchapter K entity under the
Internal Revenue Code and that such transaction(s) shall be treated the same as
between a partnership and its partner(s) as specified in Subsection (9) above;

(12)	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when forfeited and
taken into income of the business shall not be excluded when in excess of one
dollar;

(13)	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent or
trustee and to the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom collected.
These agents or trustees must provide the finance department with the names and
the addresses of the others and the amounts paid to them. This exclusion shall not
apply to any fees, percentages, or other payments retained by the agent or
trustees.

“Gross receipts” subject to the business tax shall be that portion of gross receipts
relating to business conducted within the unincorporated area of the county.

(G)	“Cannabis” means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its
seeds or resin.

(H)	“Cannabis business” or “medical marijuana business” means business activity
as defined by subsection (G) of section 7.124.020 of this Code, including but not
limited to, transporting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing,
preparing, storing, packaging, wholesale, and/or retail sales of Cannabis and any
ancillary products in the unincorporated area of the county, whether or not carried
on for gain or profit.

(I)	“Cannabis business tax”, “Business tax" or “Cannabis tax” means the tax due for
engaging in Cannabis business in the unincorporated area of Santa Cruz County.

(J)	“Person” means, without limitation, any natural individual, organization, firm,
trust, common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate,
club, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation
(including foreign, domestic, and nonprofit), cooperative, receiver, trustee,
guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.

(K)	“Sale” means and includes any sale, exchange, or barter.

(L)	“Tax Administrator” or “administrator” means the Auditor-Controller-Treasurer-Tax
Collector or such other administrator designated by the County Administrative Officer
to administer this chapter

4.06.040	Other licenses, permits, taxes, fees or charges.

Nothing contained in this Chapter4.06 shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu
of, replace or in any way affect any requirements for any license or permit required
by, under or by virtue of any provision of any other title or chapter of this code or
any other ordinance or resolution of the county, nor be deemed to repeal, amend,
be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed,
assessed or required by, under or by virtue of any other title or chapter of this code
or any other ordinance or resolution of the county. Any references made or
contained in any other title or chapter of this code to any licenses, license taxes,
fees or charges, or to any schedule of license fees, shall be deemed to refer to the
licenses, license taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of license fees, provided for in
other titles or chapters of this code.

4.06.050	Payment of tax does not authorize unlawful business.

(A)	The payment of a business tax required by this chapter, and its acceptance by
the county, shall not entitle any person to carry on any Cannabis business unless
the person has complied with all of the requirements of this code and all other
applicable laws, nor to carry on any Cannabis business in any building or on any
premises in the event that such building or premises are situated in a zone or
locality in which the conduct of such Cannabis business is in violation of any law.

(B)	No tax paid under the provisions of this chapter shall be construed as
authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or any
business in violation of any ordinance of the county.

4.06.060	Payment - Location.

The tax imposed under this chapter shall be paid to the administrator in lawful money
of the United States, at the Offices of the County Auditor-Controller-Treasurer-Tax
Collector in Santa Cruz, California. Lawful money shall mean any coin, currency or
negotiable instrument, exchangeable for said coin or currency, which the United
States Congress has declared to be a national legal tender.

4.06.070	Amount of business tax owed.

(A)	Every person engaged in Cannabis business in the unincorporated area of the
county shall pay a business tax at a rate of up to ten percent of gross receipts. The
tax under this chapter shall not be imposed on Cannabis businesses unless and
until the Board of Supervisors, by ordinance, takes action to set a tax rate not to
exceed ten percent of gross receipts.

(B)	Notwithstanding the maximum tax rate often percent of gross receipts imposed
under Subsection A., the Board of Supervisors may, in its discretion, at anytime by
ordinance, implement a lower tax rate for all Cannabis businesses or establish
differing tax rates for different categories of Cannabis businesses, as defined in
such ordinance, subject to the maximum rate often percent of gross receipts. The
Board of Supervisors may, by ordinance, also increase any such tax rate from time
to time, not to exceed the maximum tax rate of ten percent of gross receipts
established under Subsection (A).

Santa Cruz County

44-502

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

(C)	Pursuant to Subsection (A), the Cannabis business tax is set at seven percent
of gross receipts. Commencing on the operative date of this chapter, every person
engaged in Cannabis business in the unincorporated area of the county shall pay a
Cannabis business tax at the rate of seven percent of gross receipts.

4.06.080	Payment - Time limits.

The business tax imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable as follows:

(A)	Each person owing a tax under this chapter shall, on or before the last day of
each calendar month, prepare a tax statement to the administrator of the total
gross receipts and the amount of tax owed for the preceding calendar month. At
the time the tax statement is filed, the full amount of the tax owed for the preceding
calendar month shall be remitted to the administrator.

(B)	All tax statement shall be completed on forms provided by the administrator.

(C)	Tax statements and payments for all outstanding taxes owed the county are
immediately due to the administrator upon cessation of business for any reason.

4.06.090	Payments and communications made by mail - Proof of timely
submittal.

Whenever any payment, statement, report, request or other communication
received by the administrator is received after the time prescribed by this chapter
for the receipt thereof, but is in an envelope bearing a postmark showing that it was
mailed on or prior to the date prescribed in this chapter for the receipt thereof, or
whenever the administrator is furnished substantial proof that the payment,
statement, report, request or other communication was in fact deposited in the
United States mail on or prior to the date prescribed for receipt thereof, the
administrator may regard such payment, statement, report, request or other
communication as having been timely received. If the due day falls on Saturday,
Sunday or a holiday, the due day shall be the next regular business day on which
the County Building at 701 Ocean Street, Santa Cruz is open to the public.

4.06.100	Payment - When taxes deemed delinquent.

Unless otherwise specifically provided under other provisions of this chapter, the
taxes required to be paid pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed delinquent if not
paid on or before the due date specified in Section 4.06.080.

4.06.110	Notice not required by county.

The administrator is not required to send a delinquency or other notice or bill to any
person subject to the provisions of this chapter and failure to send such notice or
bill shall not affect the validity of any tax or penalty due under the provisions of this
chapter.

4.06.120	Payment - Penalty for delinquency.

(A)	Any person who fails or refuses to pay any business tax required to be paid
pursuant to this chapter on or before the due date shall pay penalties and interest
as follows:

(1)	A penalty equal to twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax in addition to the
amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax calculated from the due date of
the tax at a rate established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors; and

(2)	An additional penalty equal to twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax if the
tax remains unpaid for a period exceeding one calendar month beyond the due
date, plus interest on the unpaid tax and on the unpaid penalties, calculated at the
rate established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.

(3)	Interest shall be applied at the monthly rate on the first day of the month for the
full month, and will continue to accrue monthly on the tax and penalty until the
balance is paid in full.

(4)	Only payments for the full amount due shall be accepted. Partial payments shall
not be accepted.

(B)	Whenever a check is submitted in payment of a business tax and the check is
subsequently returned unpaid by the bank upon which the check is drawn, and the
check is not redeemed prior to the due date, the taxpayer will be liable for the tax
amount due plus the return check fee; penalties and interest as provided for in this
section; and any amount allowed under state law.

(C)	The business tax due shall be that amount due and payable from the first date
on which the person was engaged in Cannabis business in the unincorporated
area of the county, together with applicable penalties and interest calculated in
accordance with Subsection(A) above.

4.06.130	Waiver of penalties.

The administrator may waive the first and second penalties of twenty-five percent
each imposed upon any person if:

(A)	The person provides evidence satisfactory to the administrator that failure to
pay timely was due to circumstances beyond the control of the person and
occurred notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and the absence of willful
neglect, and the person paid the delinquent business tax and accrued interest
owed the county prior to applying to the administrator for a waiver.

(B)	The waiver provisions specified in this subsection shall not apply to interest
accrued on the delinquent tax and a waiver shall be granted only once during any
twenty-four month period.

4.06.140	Refunds - Credits.

(A)	No refund shall be made of any tax collected pursuant to this chapter, except as
provided in Section 4.06.150.

(B)	No refund of any tax collected pursuant to this chapter shall be made because
of the discontinuation, dissolution or other termination of a business.

(C)	Any person entitled to a refund of taxes paid pursuant to this chapter may elect
in writing to have such refund applied as a credit against such person’s business
taxes for the next calendar month.

4.06.150	Refunds and procedures.

(A)	Whenever the amount of any business tax, penalty or interest has been
overpaid, paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the county under this chapter, it may be refunded to the claimant who
paid the tax provided that a written claim for refund is filed with the administrator
within three years of the date the tax was originally due and payable, and the
provisions of Chapter 1.05 are satisfied.

(B)	The administrator or the administrator’s authorized agent shall have the right to
examine and audit all the books and business records of the claimant in order to
determine the eligibility of the claimant to the claimed refund. No claim for refund
shall be allowed if the claimant refuses to allow such examination of claimant’s
books and business records after request by the administrator to do so.

(C)	In the event that the business tax was erroneously paid and the error is
attributable to the county, the entire amount of the tax erroneously paid shall be
refunded to the claimant. If the error is attributable to the claimant, the county shall
retain the amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges established by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors from the amount to be refunded to cover
expenses.

4.06.160	Exemptions - Application - Issuance conditions.

Any person desiring to claim exemption from the payment of the tax set forth in this
chapter shall make application upon forms prescribed by the administrator and
shall furnish such information and make such affidavits as may be required by the
administrator.

4.06.170	Exemptions - General.

Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the terms hereof
shall not be deemed or construed to apply to any person when imposition of the tax
upon that person would violate the Constitution of the United States or that of the
State of California or preemptive federal or state law.

4.06.180	Exemptions - Occasional transactions.

(A) The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons having no fixed place
of business within the unincorporated area of the county who come into the
unincorporated area for the purpose of transacting a specific item of business at
the request of a specific patient, client or customer, provided that such person does
not come into the unincorporated area for the purpose of transacting business on
more than five days during any calendar year.

Santa Cruz County

44-503

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

(B) For any person not having a fixed place of business within the unincorporated
area of the county who comes into the county for the purpose of transacting
business and who is not exempt as provided in Subsection (A) of this section, the
business tax payable by such person may be apportioned by the administrator in
accordance with Section 4.06.210.

4.06.190	Enforcement - Duties of tax administrator and sheriff.

It shall be the duty of the administrator to enforce each and all of the provisions of
this chapter, and the sheriff shall render such assistance in the enforcement of this
chapter as may from time to time be required by the administrator.

4.06.200	Rules and regulations.

For purposes of apportionment as may be required by law and for purposes of
administration and enforcement of this chapter generally, the administrator, with
the concurrence of the county counsel, may from time to time promulgate
administrative rules and regulations.

4.06.210	Apportionment.

(A)	None of the tax provided for by this chapter shall be applied so as to occasion
an undue burden upon interstate commerce or be violative of the equal protection
and due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States or the State of
California.

(B)	If any case where a business tax is believed by a taxpayer to place an undue
burden upon interstate commerce or be violative of such constitutional clauses, the
taxpayer may apply to the administrator for an adjustment of the tax. It shall be the
taxpayer’s obligation to request in writing for an adjustment within one year after
the date of payment of the tax. If the taxpayer does not request in writing within one
year from the date of payment, then taxpayer shall be conclusively deemed to have
waived any adjustment for that year and all prior years.

(C)	The taxpayer shall, by sworn statement and supporting testimony, show the
method of business and the gross volume of business and such other information
as the administrator may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any,
of such undue burden or violation. The administrator shall then conduct an
investigation, and shall fix as the tax for the taxpayer an amount that is reasonable
and nondiscriminatory, or if the tax has already been paid, shall order a refund of
the amount over and above the tax so fixed. In fixing the tax to be charged, the
administrator shall have the power to base the tax upon a percentage of gross
receipts or any other measure which will assure that the tax assessed shall be
uniform with that assessed on businesses of like nature, so long as the amount
assessed does not exceed the tax as prescribed by this chapter.

(D)	Should the administrator determine that the gross receipt measure of tax to be
the proper basis, the administrator may require the taxpayer to submit a sworn
statement of the gross receipts and pay the amount of tax as determined by the
administrator.

4.06.220	Audit and examination of records and equipment.

(A)	The administrator shall have the power to audit and examine all books and
records of persons engaged in Cannabis business including both state and federal
income tax returns, California sales tax returns, or other evidence documenting the
gross receipts of persons engaged in Cannabis business, and, where necessary,
all equipment, of any person engaged in Cannabis business in the county, for the
purpose of ascertaining the amount of business tax, if any, required to be paid by
the provisions hereof, and for the purpose of verifying any statements or any item
thereof when filed by any person pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. If such
person, after written demand by the administrator, refuses to make available for
audit, examination or verification such books, records or equipment as the
administrator requests, the administrator may, after full consideration of all
information within his or her knowledge concerning the Cannabis business and
activities of the person so refusing, make an assessment in the manner provided in
Sections 4.06.250 through 4.06.270 of any taxes estimated to be due.

(B)	It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and payment to the
County of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at
least three years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such
tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the

County, which records the administrator shall have the right to inspect at all
reasonable times.

4.06.230	Tax deemed debt to county.

The amount of any tax, penalties and interest imposed by the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a debt to the county and any person carrying on any
Cannabis business without first having paid such tax shall be liable in an action in
the name of the county in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the
tax, and penalties and interest imposed on such business.

4.06.240	Deficiency determinations.

If the administrator is not satisfied that any statement filed as required under the
provisions of this chapter is correct, or that the amount of tax is correctly computed,
he or she may compute and determine the amount to be paid and make a
deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts contained in the statement or
upon the basis of any information in his or her possession or that may come into his
or her possession within three years of the date the tax was originally due and
payable. One or more deficiency determinations of the amount of tax due for a
period or periods may be made. When a person discontinues engaging in a
business, a deficiency determination may be made at any time within three years
thereafter as to any liability arising from engaging in such business whether or not
a deficiency determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be
due. Whenever a deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be given to the
person concerned in the same manner as notices of assessment are given under
Sections 4.06.250 through 4.06.270.

4.06.250	Tax assessment - Authorized when - Nonpayment - Fraud.

(A)	Under any of the following circumstances, the administrator may make and
give notice of an assessment of the amount of tax owed by a person under this
chapter at any time:

(1)	If the person has not filed any statement required under the provisions of this
chapter;

(2)	If the person has not paid any tax due under the provisions of this chapter;

(3)	If the person has not, after demand by the administrator, filed a corrected
statement, or furnished to the administrator adequate substantiation of the
information contained in a statement already filed, or paid any additional amount of
tax due under the provisions of this chapter;

(4)	If the administrator determines that the nonpayment of any business tax due
under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount of
the tax shall be added thereto in addition to penalties and interest otherwise stated
in this chapter.

(B)	The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount of any tax
known by the administrator to be due or estimated by the administrator, after
consideration of all information within the administrator’s knowledge concerning
the business and activities of the person assessed, to be due under each
applicable section of this chapter, and shall include the amount of any penalties or
interest accrued on each amount to the date of the notice of assessment.

4.06.260	Tax assessment - Notice requirements.

The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person either by handing it to
him or her personally, or by a deposit of the notice in the United States mail,
postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at the address of the location of
the business or to such other address as he or she shall register with the
administrator for the purpose of receiving notices provided under this chapter; or,
should the person have no address registered with the administrator for such
purpose, then to such person’s last known address. For the purposes of this
section, a service by mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States
mail.

4.06.270	Tax assessment - Hearing - Application and determination.

Within ten days after the date of service the person may apply in writing to the
administrator for a hearing on the assessment. If application for a hearing before
the county is not made within the time herein prescribed, the tax assessed by the
administrator shall become final and conclusive. Within thirty days of the receipt of
any such application for hearing, the administrator shall cause the matter to be set

44-504

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

for hearing before him or her not later than thirty-five days after the receipt of the
application, unless a later date is agreed to by the administrator and the person
requesting the hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be given by the administrator
to the person requesting such hearing not later than five days prior to such hearing.
At such hearing said applicant may appear and offer evidence why the assessment
as made by the administrator should not be confirmed and fixed as the tax due.
After such hearing the administrator shall determine and reassess the proper tax to
be charged and shall give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed in
Section 4.06.260 for giving notice of assessment.

4.06.280	Conviction for chapter violation - Taxes not waived.

The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required tax
shall not excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the tax debt unpaid
at the time of such conviction. No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution
for any violation of the provisions of this chapter or of any state law requiring the
payment of all taxes.

4.06.290	Violation deemed misdemeanor - Penalty.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any regulation or rule
passed in accordance herewith, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars or by imprisonment for a period of not more than six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.

4.06.300	Severability.

Should any provision of this chapter, or its application to any person or
circumstance, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful,
unenforceable or otherwise void, that determination shall have no effect on any
other provision of this chapter or the application of this chapter to any other person
or circumstance and, to that end, the provisions hereof are severable.

4.06.310	Effect of state and federal reference/ authorization.

(A)	Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal
statute in this chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to
time, provided that such reference to a statute herein shall not include any
amendment thereto, or to any change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal
agency or court of law with the duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such
amendment or change of interpretation would, under California law, require voter
approval of such amendment or interpretation, or to the extent that such change
would result in a tax decrease. To the extent voter approval would otherwise be
required or a tax decrease would result, the prior version of the statute (or
interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any application or situation that would
not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax, provisions of the
amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum
possible extent.

(B)	To the extent that the county’s authorization to collect or impose any tax
imposed under this chapter is expanded as a result of changes in state or federal
law, no amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the
tax to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of
the authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this chapter.

4.06.320	Remedies cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this chapter or which are available under
any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False
Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair
Practices Act (Business and Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are
cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by the county shall not bar the use of
any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.

4.06.330	Amendment or repeal.

Chapter 4.06 of the Santa Cruz County Code may be repealed or amended by the
Board of Supervisors without a vote of the people. However, as required by
Chapter XIIIC of the California Constitution, voter approval is required for any
amendment provision that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this
chapter. The people of the County of Santa Cruz affirm that the following actions
shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:

(A)	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by
this chapter, if the Board of Supervisors has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

(B)	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any definition
applicable to the tax, so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to
some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of
this chapter;

(C)	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or excepted from the tax
or the discontinuation of any such exemption or exception (other than the
discontinuation of an exemption or exception specifically set forth in this chapter);
or

(D)	The collection of the tax imposed by this chapter, even if the county had, for
some period of time, failed to collect the tax.

Santa Cruz County

44-505

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE K

If this measure is approved by a majority of those voting on it, an ordinance will be
added to the Santa Cruz County Code authorizing the County of Santa Cruz
(“County”) to impose a tax on the gross receipts of cannabis (marijuana)
businesses operating within the unincorporated area of the County. The tax and
the reporting requirements imposed by the ordinance apply to the covered
businesses, not to persons who purchase or acquire cannabis from those
businesses.

The purpose of the tax is to raise revenue for general governmental purposes, not
for regulatory purposes.

If enacted, the cannabis businesses are required to submit to the County
Auditor-Controller-Treasurer-Tax Collector monthly statements of their gross
receipts, and pay a resulting tax.

Definitions of “cannabis business” and “gross receipts” are set out in the
ordinance, the full text of which is printed elsewhere in the ballot pamphlet.

The rate of the tax at effective date of the ordinance would be seven percent (7%)
of gross receipts, and it authorizes the Board of Supervisors to set a maximum tax
rate up to ten percent (10%) of gross receipts.

Payment of the cannabis business tax would not authorize the conduct of any
illegal or unlawful business.

All revenues from this tax will be deposited into the County’s general fund and may
be used for County governmental services including but not limited to police, fire,
emergency response, street maintenance and pothole repair, health services,
parks, libraries, youth and senior programs, animal programs, economic
development and job creation, and affordable housing.

The County Auditor-Controller-Treasurer-Tax Collector would determine whether
the penalties specified by the ordinance for delinquent tax should be imposed, and
whether exemptions apply or refunds are owing. Audits may be conducted to
determine whether additional tax is owed. Aside from monetary penalties for failure
to pay the tax on time, the ordinance declares that violation of its provisions
constitutes a misdemeanor.

This tax measure is placed on the ballot by resolution of the County Board of
Supervisors.

A “yes” vote is to approve imposition of the cannabis business tax.

A “no” vote is against imposition of the cannabis business tax.

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT BY COUNTY AUDITOR-CONTROLLER
MEASURE K

Cannabis Business Tax

Measure K would authorize the County of Santa Cruz to add Chapter 4.06 to the
County Code, imposing a business tax of no more than 10% on the gross receipts
of cannabis (medical marijuana) businesses in the unincorporated areas of Santa
Cruz County. The rate would be set at 7% at the time of enactment. The cannabis
business tax revenue would be used solely for County general governmental
purposes.

Fiscal Effect

A cannabis business tax at the proposed rate of 7% of gross receipts is estimated
to generate approximately $900,000 annually. The cannabis business is required
to file a statement of gross receipts, and pay the business tax on a monthly basis to
the Office of the County Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax Collector. A penalty plus
interest will be imposed if the tax is not paid timely.

Use of the Funds

All revenues from this business tax will be deposited into the County’s General
Fund, and spent on essential general governmental services currently supplied by
the County such as sheriff, fire, emergency response, health services, parks, youth
and senior programs, animal shelter programs, economic development, affordable
housing, and other essential county services.

Accountability

The Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax Collector is the tax administrator, and has
the authority to examine the books and records of the cannabis businesses to
verify the accuracy of the statement of gross receipts that was filed and the
business tax computed thereon. The Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax Collector
also has the authority to issue an assessment to a cannabis business for the
estimated amount of tax owed if a statement is not filed and a tax is not paid by the
business.

si MARY JO WALKER
Auditor-Controller
County of Santa Cruz

DANA McRAE, COUNTY COUNSEL
By Jane M. Scott, Assistant County Counsel

44-506

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

VOTE YES ON MEASURE K - THE CANNABIS BUSINESS TAX

Santa Cruz County voters have overwhelmingly supported State and local laws for
the compassionate and safe use of medicinal cannabis (marijuana) by physician’s
recommendation for over 20 years. Residents have strongly supported the need to
ensure safe access to medical cannabis for people in need.

As a result, Santa Cruz County worked successfully with neighborhood groups and
local industry representatives to create laws allowing cannabis to be responsibly
cultivated, distributed, delivered, dispensed, sold, or given away without creating a
public nuisance.

These laws respect the needs of medical patients, and their caregivers, as well as
legitimate medical cannabis businesses. They also protect our neighborhoods and
land from illegitimate operators who damage our forests, divert our streams, and
act without respect for our community.

However, the County needs additional revenues to ensure that environmental
protection, neighborhood integrity, and public safety are maintained.

The Cannabis Business Tax will provide new money for county services. It will be
used for many general purposes, such as:

•	public health and safety,

•	fire services,

•	environmental protection,

•	animal shelter and community programs, and

•	financial accountability.

All revenue collected will stay local, to protect and maintain our
neighborhoods.

Voting Yes will not disadvantage low income persons, as there are resources
for income restricted patients to receive low or no cost medicine.

Measure K creates a business tax only for cannabis businesses, not all
businesses.

Voting Yes will not establish any new cannabis businesses, as the existing
businesses are already allowed under State law and our local ordinance.

Measure K is supported unanimously by the Board of Supervisors and will help
expand and maintain essential services for county residents.

Join us in voting YES ON MEASURE K.

s/ Bruce McPherson
Santa Cruz County 5th District Supervisor

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

The Proponents Argument is deceptive, arguing for stigmatizing the
compassionate use of “medical” marijuana, using the theme of criminality, to justify
their overly regressive tax on its use. My lawsuit isn’t just against their new tax, but
against the existing 8.25% tax that will increase to 18.25% if the voters approve
Measure K. If approved only “medical cannabis” patients are subjected to this
clearly discriminatory tax.

Remember the City of Bell where the City leaders defrauded taxpayers and more
recently the King City Police Department. Criminality is drawn by the darkness in
the government that proceeds before the criminal element’s arrival. Voters
shouldn’t be deceived this isn’t the gateway to legalization of recreational
marijuana use that I support and that should be taxed too, but at the same sales tax
rate as everything else you buy. My lawsuit also seeks that poor people and
Medi-Cal patients should get their medical marijuana free, and people who can
afford it should be charged a co-pay like any other medicine you buy.

I asked the voters to Vote No on Measure K, not for me but the “Grateful Dead”. “A
traveler enters a village and finds the villagers desecrating, or refusing to bury the
body of a dead man because he died owing creditors money. The traveler pays the
dead man’s debts and sees to a decent burial. Later in his travels, the man is saved
by a mysterious event, which is credited to the dead man’s grateful spirit. Hence,
the Grateful Dead.”

God bless.

si Michael Boyd
Taxpayer

si Fred Keeley
President, Sempervirens Fund

si Betsy McCarty
Chief of Public Health, Santa Cruz County (Retired)

si Ben Rice*

Attorney for Association for Standardized Cannabis

si Karen Delaney
Community Volunteer

*Signing on behalf of the organization listed below the name.

Santa Cruz County

44-507

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

The Board of Supervisor unanimously approved June 10,2014, a 10% sales tax,
called the “Cannabis Business Tax A lawsuit was filed July 15,2014 by local free
speech and civil rights advocate Michael Boyd which challenges the proposed
10% sales tax and also challenges the existing 7% use tax imposed on “medical
marijuana” based on the State Board of Equalization’s justification for the tax as
“retail sales of marijuana and any other illegal drugs or property, are subject to
sales or use tax to the same extent as is any lawful retail sale of tangible personal
property”. Just because something is illegal doesn’t make it legal to tax it. No
statutory authority exists for such tax making it unlawful.

Prior to passage by Congress of H.R. 4660 (2014) existing federal law prohibited
the manufacture, possession, sale or distribution of marijuana, including
marijuana, as within the definition of “medicine”. H.R.4660 passed the House on
May 30,2014. Section 542 defines “medical marijuana” thereby exempting it from
federal drug enforcement laws stating it “Prohibits the use of funds made available
by this Act for ‘preventing specified states from implementing their own laws
authorizing the use, distribution, possession, or cultivation of medical marijuana’ ”.

Mr. Boyd said, “The Board of Supervisors think that it is OK to tax the medicine of
people who are seriously ill, many, near death, who get no relief from their
suffering, except through the relief medical marijuana brings them. The Board’s
action only serves the forces of socioeconomic terrorism of the poor that comes
from viewing people’s medicine as more money for cops, and the view their
medical marijuana is an illegal substance under federal law. Well not any more
thanks to H.R. 4660. Please vote NO on the Board’s unlawful tax on ’’medical
marijuana".

si Michael E. Boyd
Taxpayer

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Don’t be fooled by an argument that the County is legally prohibited from regulating
or taxing the sale of medical cannabis (marijuana).

The recent California Supreme Court decision in Riverside v. Inland Empire gives
the County broad authority to regulate safe, compassionate access to medical
cannabis by people in our community.

H.R. 4660, not currently law, simply states that any funds appropriated by the Act
cannot be used to prevent California from passing its own laws that
authorize the use, distribution, possession, or cultivation of medical
marijuana.

The argument opposing this measure states that the County tax will be 10%. This is
not true. The tax initially will be 7% and any subsequent change will be subject to
public review.

Medical cannabis is legal in California and Santa Cruz. However, making sure that
growing and using it is done responsibly creates a financial burden on our County.

Medical cannabis is not just like every other medicine. The Sheriff’s Office,
Planning Department, County Fire, and other County offices need to monitor the
cultivation and dispensing of this medicine.

County taxpayers should not have to pay for the services to protect our
community from illegitimate and illegal operators. It is only reasonable that
medical cannabis businesses help pay these costs, and in fact, the
Association for Standardized Cannabis, which represents most of these
businesses, supports this measure.

Low income patients will continue to have access to low or no cost medicine.

Join us in voting YES ON MEASURE K.
si Ben Rice*

Attorney for Association for Standardized Cannabis

si Neal Coonerty
Santa Cruz County 3rd District Supervisor

si John Leopold
Santa Cruz County 1st District Supervisor

si Katherine Beiers
Former Mayor, City of Santa Cruz

si Scott M. Jalbert
Chief, Santa Cruz County Fire Department

*Signing on behalf of the organization listed below the name.

Santa Cruz County

44-508