Measure K

Renew Parcel Tax
Mount Pleasant School District

2/3 Approval Required

Without increasing current tax rates, to continue improving local elementary
schools by protecting reading, writing, math/science programs, maintaining
libraries, music/art, retaining qualified teachers, preserving tutoring programs for
students with special needs, providing updated educational materials and access to
21st Century technology and computer training, and, shall Mt. Pleasant Elementary
School District renew its expiring $95 parcel tax for seven years, exempt senior
citizens, no funds for administrators' salaries, independent citizen oversight and all
funds benefitting local schools?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to renew the existing qualified special tax of $95 per parcel
on parcels within the District for seven years.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote to not renew the existing qualified special tax of $95 per
parcel on parcels within the District for seven years.

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel

A school district may levy a special tax upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on a proposal pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and sections 50075 et seq. of the California Government Code.

On June 8, 2010, voters within the Mt. Pleasant School District (District) approved
Measure H, a five-year parcel tax of $95 per parcel per year. The Board of Trustees
(Board) of the District proposes Measure K to renew the existing parcel tax in the
amount of $95 per parcel per year for an additional seven years, commencing when the
existing parcel tax expires on June 30, 2015. If Measure K is approved, the renewed
parcel tax will expire on June 30, 2022. Renewal of the existing parcel tax will not
increase the current parcel tax.

The proposed tax exempts any parcel that is a principal residence of, and owned by, one
or more persons 65 years of age or older, and persons receiving Supplemental Security
Income for a disability, regardless of age.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which the tax proceeds
will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for these purposes. The stated
purposes of the tax proposed by Measure K, include but are not limited to (1) fund core
academic programs in reading, writing, math and science; (2) provide updated
educational materials and access to 21st Century technology and computer training; (3)
maintain music and art programs; (4) attract and retain highly qualified and

experienced teachers; and (5) preserve tutoring programs for students with special
needs.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability measures for the
proceeds. These measures include (1) depositing the proceeds into a fund that is
separate and apart from other District funds; and (2) providing an annual written
report to the Board showing the amount of funds collected and expended and the status
of any project authorized to be funded from the tax. The District will maintain the
existing Citizens' Oversight Committee, which will provide oversight as to the
expenditure of the tax proceeds.

Measure K was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A "yes" vote is a vote to renew the existing qualified special tax of $95 per parcel on
parcels within the District for seven years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not renew the existing qualified special tax of $95 per parcel on
parcels within the District for seven years.

Orry P. Korb
County Counsel

By: /s/ Susan Swain

Lead Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure K

Vote Yes on K to maintain the keys to local elementary and middle school
student success in core academic programs in reading, writing, math and
science, without increasing taxes by a single penny.

In 2010, local voters in our neighborhood MtPleasantElementary SchoolDistrict
approved stable local funding to retain qualified teachers, support academic programs
and promote student achievement. Now this funding is set to expire unless voters
choose to renew it by voting Yes on Measure K.

Measure K supports all students in our schools by improving academic programs,
protecting tutoring programs that keep children on the right track, and preserving
smaller class sizes to give all students the individual attention they need to excel.

Measure K doesn't increase taxes--it simply renews critical, voter- approved funding for
our schools. The state can't take a single penny.

Vote Yes on K to improve education in our neighborhood schools by:

•	Protecting reading, writing, math and science programs

•	Retaining qualified teachers

•	Providing access to 21st-century technology and computer training

•	Preserving tutoring programs for students with special needs and at- risk youth

•	Keeping school libraries open

Measure K includes fiscal accountability provisions.

•	All funds stay in local schools and cannot be taken by the state

•	Independent citizen oversight will continue to ensure all funds are spent as
promised

•	No funds can be used for administrators' salaries

•	Homeowners, aged 65 and older, can continue to receive an exemption

•	Measure K expires in 7 years and cannot be renewed without voter approval

•	Measure K does not increase taxes-it simply renews existing local school
funding at current rates

Good schools benefit all of us by keeping our community strong and safe,
whether or not we have children attending school. Support student
achievement in Mt. Pleasant schools-vote Yes on K.

/s/ Paul A. Torres

Long Time District Resident

/s/ Rubie Golart
50 Year District Resident

/s/ Christiane Clark

District Resident and Member of Mt. Pleasant Neighborhood Association

/s/ Manuel R. Martinez

Member Citizens Oversight Committee

/s/ Manny Barbara

V.P., Silicon Valley Education Foundation

Rebuttal to Arguments For

Mt. Pleasant Elementary School District used 2010's state government budget crisis to
persuade us to pass the existing $95 parcel tax, a burden they promised would end in
2015. And in 2012, they asked for, and got, a $25,000,000 bond issue.

Will the taxes never end?

And why are they using district funds to pay for this election in June, instead of in
November when the voter turnout is much higher?

Does that seem un-democratic to you?

Homeowners and renters already feel the pinch of the economic downturn and
inflation. With Santa Clara County's official unemployment rate at 6.3% (up from 5.8%
in December, 2013), but with the real rate -- counting people who have stopped looking
for work - far higher, Measure K will increase everyone's housing cost, hurting the
unemployed the worst.

Consider this:

Student enrollment: 2,540 in year 2012-13; 2,613 in 2011-12:

Down 2.79%

Number of teachers: 114 in year 2011-12; 121 in 2010-11:

Down 5.78%

Administrators: 10 in year 2011-12; 7 in 2010-11:

Up 42.86%

(Latest figures available; Education Data Partnership,

With fewer teachers, shouldn't expenses be down? Doesn't matter: the District wants
more money. More money, while number of both students and teachers are both
declining, but administration personnel? It's up more than 40%.

Teach the Mt. Pleasant Elementary School District board to be financially
responsible: Vote NO on Measure K.

For more information, please visit:http://www.SVTaxpayers.org/2014-06-mt-pleasant-
elementarv-sd-parcel-tax

/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/ Edward Leo Wimmers

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Arguments Against Measure K

Mt. Pleasant Elementary School District used 2010's state government budget
crisis to persuade us to pass the existing $95 parcel tax, a burden they
promised would end in 2015. The crisis is over, and we're still paying the tax,
yet they're already asking us if they can keep it. How long do they want it to
last? Another 7 years!

Homeowners and renters already feel the pinch of the economic downturn and
inflation. With Santa Clara County's official unemployment rate at 6.3% (up from 5.8%
in December, 2013), but with the real rate — counting people who have stopped looking
for work - far higher, Measure K will increase everyone's housing cost, hurting the
unemployed the worst.

Consider this:

Student enrollment: 2,540 in year 2012-13; 2,613 in 2011-12:

Down 2.79%

Number of teachers: 114 in year 2011-12; 121 in 2010-11:

Down 5.78%

Administration: 10 in year 2011-12; 7 in 2010-11:

Up 42.86%

(Latest figures available; Education Data Partnership,

With fewer teachers, shouldn't expenses be down? Doesn't matter: the District wants
more money. More money, while number of both students and teachers is declining, but
administration? It's up more than 40%.

Now, the District is saying that these funds won't be used for administration. But that's
an empty promise: Any funds generated outside of this parcel tax can simply be shifted
to administration expenses — without limit. Don't be fooled by the shell game.

Everywhere, families' budgets are being slashed — why not also at Mt. Pleasant
Elementary School District? (Not to mention that property taxes also slow down our
homes' recovering their value!)

This parcel tax will also inhibit the recovery of home prices in Silicon Valley.

Teach the Mt. Pleasant Elementary School District board to be financially
responsible: Vote NO on Measure K.

For more information, please visit:http://www.SVTaxpavers.org/2014-06-mt-pleasant-
elementarv-sd-parcel-tax

/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle

President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/ Edward Leo Wimmers

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Rebuttal to Arguments Against

Unlike the authors of the argument against Measure K, we believe that improving our
neighborhood elementary and middle schools is a top community priority.

Because these two ideologues—who oppose every school measure on the ballot-don't
live in our neighborhoods, they simply don't understand the facts.

Without increasing taxes by a single penny, we can improve local schools by voting
Yes on K. It provides stable funding, critical to maintaining academic programs and
retaining teachers. Not one penny can be taken by the state.

Without increasing taxes, all Measure K funds stay in our neighborhood schools to
protect the keys to student success. Measure K will:

•	Protect reading, writing, math and science programs

•	Retain qualified teachers

•	Provide access to 21st-century technology and computer training

•	Preserve tutoring programs for students with special needs and at-risk youth

•	Keep school libraries open

No funds can he used for administrators' salaries. Our local schools operate with
lean district administrative costs of 2.2%, focusing 81% of its budget on the
classroom. Independent citizen oversight ensures Measure K funds are used
as promised. It expires in seven years and cannot be renewed without voter
approval.

Measure K renews existing, voter-approved education funding that our schools rely
on and would otherwise expire.

Good schools benefit all of us. Good schools keep our community safe and strong.
Measure K continues a senior citizen exemption.

Join local residents, business owners, parents and retirees: vote Yes on K to support
local elementary school students' education.

/s/ Peter Skinner

Measure L Oversight Committee Member

/s/ Sue Ambrosini
Community Member

/s/ Thomas L. Kearns
CPA

/s/Joseph E. Jahn

Jahn Plumbing, Inc., Owner

/s/ Vera W. Polito
Community Member

Full Text of Measure K

MT. PLEASANT ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
Quality Education Parcel Tax Measure K

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To provide local reliable funding for local schools that cannot be taken by the State, to
maintain strong core academic programs in reading, writing, math and science, attract
and retain highly qualified and experienced teachers, maintain libraries, and preserve
tutoring programs for students with special needs, with no proceeds used for
administrative salaries and benefits, the Mt. Pleasant Elementary School District
["District") proposes to renew and extend its existing quality education parcel tax,
without increasing the current tax rate, for a period of seven years from its current
expiration date [June 30, 2015), starting on July 1, 2015 at a rate of $95 per parcel per
year, with an exemption available for senior citizens and certain disabled persons, and
to implement strict accountability measures, to ensure the funds are used to:

•	Protect core academic programs in reading, writing, math and science;

•	Provide updated educational materials;

•	Provide access to 21st Century technology and computer training;

•	Preserve music and art programs;

•	Attract and retain highly qualified and experienced teachers.

•	Maintain after school programs for at-risk children; and

•	Continue the pre-school program to provide early childhood education.

The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by the
District.

DEFINITION OF "PARCEL"

For purposes of the core academic programs parcel tax, the term "Parcel" means any
parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Mt. Pleasant
Elementary School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property
taxes from the Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that is
otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any
year shall also be exempt from the quality education parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this quality education parcel tax, any such "Parcels" which are [i)
contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes,
and [iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting an application of the
owners thereof by June 15 of any year to the District, be treated as a single "parcel" for
purposes of the levy of the quality education parcel tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 [b), any owners of a Parcel
used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either
[a) 65 years of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year immediately
preceding the year in which the tax would apply, or [b) persons receiving

Supplemental Security Income for a disability, regardless of age, may obtain an
exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an application therefore, by June 15 of
any year, to the District.

Persons currently exempted from the District's expiring Measure H parcel tax shall
automatically be exempted from this Measure without having to file a new application.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Clara
County Tax Collector, or other appropriate County tax officials shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be
final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the quality education
parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen and SSI Exemptions and the classification of
property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District shall be final
and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the quality education parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset
any increase in local, state or federal government revenue sources that would
otherwise be available to the District during the period of the parcel tax. In the event
that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District may cease the levy or
shall reduce the parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of
the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1
and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the
parcel tax levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the
parcel tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the parcel tax
shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (cj a separate, special
account shall be created into which the proceeds of the quality education parcel tax
must be deposited; and (dj an annual written report shall be made to the Board of
Trustees of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from
the proceeds of the quality education parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or
programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the quality
education parcel tax, as identified above. In addition, the District will maintain its
existing Citizens' Oversight Committee which will provide oversight as to the
expenditure of parcel tax revenues.