California Revenue and Tax Code section 7285.9 authorizes the Gilroy
City Council to levy a General Transactions and Use Tax (i.e., sales tax)
if the ordinance proposing the taxation is approved by a two-thirds vote
of all of the members of the City Council and the tax is approved by a
majority of the City's voters. The City Council has approved the
ordinance as required and submitted it to the voters.

If approved by the voters, Measure F will provide an additional one-half
cent (0.50%) tax on each dollar of taxable sales of goods in the City of
Gilroy, and on the storage, use, or consumption in the City of Gilroy of
goods purchased from a retailer.

The tax funds will be deposited into the City's General Fund, and may be
used for any general municipal purpose and as directed by the City
Council. For example, as stated in Measure F, the tax funds could be
used for police services and crime prevention programs, street and
sidewalk repair and maintenance, expanding programs for at-risk youth,
and any other City services and programs.

The one-half cent (0.50%) sales tax would be in addition to the current
sales tax, and would be collected in the same manner as the existing
sales tax. Presently, the combined capped State and local sales tax rate
in the City of Gilroy totals 8.75%. Measure F would increase the sales
tax rate in the City of Gilroy by one-half cent (0.50%), for a total sales tax
rate of 9.25%.

If approved by a majority of the voters at the November 4,2014, election,
the Measure F one-half cent (0.50%) sales tax would become operative
beginning on April 1,2015.

Pursuant to ordinance, each year an independent audit and report will be
prepared on the revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax, which
shall be publicly presented to the City Council and made available to the
public.

The additional tax will last for fifteen (15) years. At the end of fifteen (15)
years the additional tax will expire. Any extension beyond the fifteen (15)
years would require action by the City Council and a new vote of the
public.

A "Yes" vote on Measure F would increase the sales tax rate in the City
of Gilroy from the current 8.75% to 9.25% for a period of 15 years.

A "No" vote on Measure F would leave the sales tax rate in the City of
Gilroy at its current rate of 8.75%.

Respectfully submitted,

Isl Linda A. Callon
City Attorney, City of Gilroy

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure F. If you
desire a copy of Measure F or the Transaction and Use (Sales) Tax
Ordinance, please call the City Clerk's office at (408) 846-0204, and
a copy will be mailed or emailed to you at no cost.

Improve Gilroy's quality of life and maintain LOCAL services-vote YES
on F!

We must do more to keep our community safe from gang crimes and
violence. YES on F improves and expands gang suppression and
prevention programs, including the South County Youth Task Force.

YES on F also replaces Gilroy's outdated 9-1-1 emergency
communications system. YES on F allows Gilroy police, firefighters, and
paramedics to communicate when critical help is needed so that we're
not isolated from the rest of the County after a major natural
disaster/earthquake.

•	YES on F improves police/fire protection.

•	YES on F maintains 9-1-1 response times.

•	YES on F expands gang suppression/prevention programs.

•	YES on F modernizes aging 9-1-1 emergency response
systems

Kids need positive outlets to keep them off the streets and away
from gangs and drugs. YES on F expands after-school and recreation
programs for at-risk youth and improves and makes safety repairs to
neighborhood parks to keep kids safe and out of trouble.

YES on F also fixes crumbling sidewalks and streets. YES on F fully
funds the City's share of fixing broken and dangerous sidewalks and
reimburses residents who have already paid for repairs. YES on F fixes
potholes and makes critical repairs to local streets, including major
roadways, which need $30 million in repairs over the next decade.

By law, YES on F requires every dime to be used for our LOCAL services,
and Sacramento can't touch it!

Measure F requires tough fiscal accountability, including independent
financial audits with public review of expenditures to ensure funds are
used effectively and efficiently, like they were for the Community Library
which came in ahead of schedule and under budget.

Join police officers, firefighters, and business and community leaders in
voting YES on F!

Join us: www.GilrovsFuture.com.

/s/Don Gage
Mayor of Gilroy

/s/John Ballard
President, Gilroy Police Officers' Association

/s/ Art Barron
Youth Advocate

/s/Don Christopher
Owner, Christopher Ranch

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F WAS SUBMITTED

ATTACHMENT 1
ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
GILROY IMPOSING A ONE-HALF CENT (0.50%)
TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX FOR FIFTEEN
(15) YEARS TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, over the years Sacramento takeaways have reduced the City of Gilroy’s
(“City” or “Gilroy”) budget by tens of millions of dollars, and our city needs a guaranteed source
of local funding that cannot be taken by Sacramento ensuring our tax dollars are spent locally for
Gilroy residents; and

WHEREAS, this measure includes tough fiscal accountability provisions such as
requiring independent audits and public review of expenditures, and keeping all funds local,
ensuring they are used effectively and efficiently, like they were for the Community Library
which came in ahead of schedule and under budget and

WHEREAS, gang crimes and violence continue to occur in Gilroy and South County,
despite the national downward trend and additional funds will allow the City to improve and
expand gang suppression and prevention programs, such as the South County Youth Task Force
partnership with Morgan Hill and local schools; and

WHEREAS, our many parks, sports and recreational facilities are part of what makes
Gilroy a family-friendly community, and additional funds are needed to improve and make
safety repairs to neighborhood parks, providing Gilroy’s children - including at risk youth - with
recreational programs that keep them safe and out of trouble; and

WHEREAS, Gilroy’s popular neighborhood sidewalk repair matching program for
residents - where the City pays 80% of repairing damaged sidewalks, curbs, and gutters - is
severely underfunded, and additional funds are needed to reimburse residents who have already
paid for repairs, and repair the potentially dangerous sidewalks, curbs and gutters of those who
are on the waiting list; and

WHEREAS, our local streets and roads, including our major roadways, are deteriorating
and require an estimated $30 million in repairs over the next decade, and additional funds will
allow us to make these essential repairs now before our streets become more dangerous and more
expensive to fix; and

WHEREAS, Gilroy’s outdated emergency communications system needs replacing
because it could leave the city isolated from the rest of the county after a major natural disaster,

4812-1362-8700v4

JH\04706083

Item X.A. Quality of Life Ballot Measure

and in an earthquake Gilroy’s police, firefighters and paramedics must be able to effectively
communicate with 9-1-1 responders from neighboring cities when critical help is needed; and

WHEREAS, based on all of the information presented at the August 4,2014 regular city
council meeting, both written and oral, including the staff reports, minutes, and other relevant
materials, the City Council finds that under CEQA Guidelines 15060(c)(2) and 15378,
subdivisions (2) and (4) of subdivision (b), this tax does not constitute a project under CEQA and
therefore review under CEQA is not required.

WHEREAS, at its August 4,2014 meeting, the Council considered calling an election to
seek voter approval of a proposed general transactions and use tax (or “sales tax”), as authorized
by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9; and

WHEREAS, at that meeting, the City Council concluded that all of the information
presented indicated that, to obtain the revenue necessary to maintain and preserve service levels,
the Council should call an election to ask the voters of the City to approve a 15-year local
transactions and use tax (sales tax), the revenue from which could be used to support general
municipal services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds the proposed ordinance and its process of adoption
consistent with the provisions of City Charter sections 601 and 608 and Revenue and Taxation
Code section 7285.9; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council determined that it was
appropriate to place a measure regarding a general transactions and use (sales) tax before the
voters at the November 4,2014 general election; and

WHEREAS, the tax, if approved, would be imposed on the sale of tangible personal
property and the storage, use, or other consumption of such property. The tax rate would be one-
half of one percent (0.50%) (a half cent for each dollar) of the sales price of the property. The tax
revenue would be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City. The tax
would be in effect for 15 years, and would then expire automatically, unless extended by the
voters. The tax shall be approved if the measure receives at least a simple majority of affirmative
votes.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF GILROY AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1. AMENDMENT OF CODE

Chapter 22 of the Gilroy City Code entitled “Taxation” is hereby amended to add a new Article
V and shall read as follows:

“Chapter 22, Article V

4812-1362-8700v4

JH\04706083

Item X.A. Quality of Life Ballot Measure

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX

3

QUALITY OF LIFE AND SAFETY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX”

Section 22.33. Title.

L

This ordinance shall be known as the City of Gilroy Quality of Life and Safety Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Gilroy hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 22.34. Operative Date.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 22.35. Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of
the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that
will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping Upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions of this ordinance.

i

Section 22.36. Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax

4812-1362-8700v4

JH\04706083

Item X.A. Quality of Life Ballot Measure

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX

4

ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

Section 2237. Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 0.50% of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after
the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 22.38. Place of Sale.

For tihe purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to
the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 22.39. Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance
for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.50% of the sales price of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 22.40. Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions
of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 22.41. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a) Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

4812-1362-8700v4

JH\04706083

Item X.A. Quality of Life Ballot Measure

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX

(1)	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution
of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City
or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this Ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would
be to:

(A)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(B)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,6797
or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b) The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in
business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 22.42. Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 22.43. Exemptions and Exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of
any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts
from:

4812-1362-8700v4

JH\04706083

Item X.A. Quality of Life Ballot Measure

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the
sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the
City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent,
or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(A)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an ouUof-
City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

(B)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property
for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for
any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

4812-1362-8700V4

JH\04706083

Item X.A. Quality of Life Ballot Measure

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall he deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the
City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the
City under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle,
vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property, the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

4812-1362-8700v4

JH\04706083

Item XA. Quality of Life Ballot Measure

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX

Section 22.44. Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance. The foregoing amendments shall not require
voter approval.

The following amendments to this ordinance must be approved by the voters of the City of
Gilroy: increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the tax such that a tax
increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not previously subject to the tax
(unless such amendment occurs automatically by operation of the preceding paragraph); or
extending the tax beyond the fifteenth (15th) anniversary of the operative date. The City Council
may otherwise amend this ordinance without submitting the amendment to the voters for
approval.

Section 22.45. Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the
City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 22.46. Independent Audits.

There shall be an annual independent audit and report prepared on the revenue and expenditure
of funds from the tax adopted by this Chapter which report shall be publicly presented annually
at a city council meeting and made available to the general public.

Section 22.47. Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the fifteenth (15th)
anniversary of the last day of the calendar quarter following the operative date.

SECTION 2. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE.

The approval of this ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Public
Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA
Guidelines”). The transactions and use tax to be submitted to the voters is a general tax that can
be used for any legitimate governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular action.
As such, under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(2) and (4), the tax is not a project within the
meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not involve any

4812-1362-8700v4

JH\04706083

Item X.A. Quality of Life Ballot Measure

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX

commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on
the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that would have such effect,
the city would undertake the required CEQA review for that particular project. Therefore, under
CEQA Guidelines section 15060, review under CEQA is not required.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this ordinance is for any reason
held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions
of this ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The people hereby declare
that they would have adopted each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses,
phrases, or portions of this ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use tax and shall
take effect immediately.

SECTION 5. PUBLICATION.

The Clerk of the City of Gilroy is hereby directed to cause the ordinance to be published by a
newspaper of general circulation, published and circulated in the City of Gilroy.

ADOPTED by the City Council on this 4th day of August, 2014, by the following roll
call vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:

ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBERS

IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the foregoing Ordinance was approved by the following vote
of the People of the City of Gilroy on November 4, 2014.

YESES:

NOES:

ADOPTED by Declaration of the November 4,2014 election results by the City Council
of the City of Gilroy on__, by the following	vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:

4812-1362-8700v4

JH\04706083

Item X.A. Quality of Life Ballot Measure

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX

ABSENT:

COUNCILMEMBERS

APPROVED:

Donald F. Gage, Mayor
City of Gilroy

ATTEST:

Shawna Freels, City Clerk
City of Gilroy

4812-1362-8700v4

JH\04706083

Item XA. Quality of Life Ballot Measure

ORDINANCE NO. 2014-XX