BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION			
Ju™<Uctio„Na„,e:C|tyofNewark			Election Date: ^ ^/4/2014
Note: The Insert ba)  1  i  i	information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot ot question text here:  To maintain critical City services, including neighborhood patrols, crime prevention, anti-drug/gang-prevention programs, 9-1-1 emergency response, fire protection services, City streets, repairing potholes, keeping the Senior Center open, maintaining school polipe officers, parks/ recre.ation programs, and other city services, shall the City of Newark extend the existing, voter-approved utility users tax for 5 years, reducing the rate from 3 5% to 3.25%, exempting seniors and low-income residents, requiring independent audits, with no money for Sacramento?		
TYPE OF MEASURE			
Regular Measure d Bond Measure			
PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS			
% Approx/ l^e^uirecA			
FULL TEXT OPTION			
Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:  !,. 1 YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with tins form)  7  Q NO - A Full Text was not submitted □ NO - Do not print, but it's accessible at:			
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE			
print Name: gliejia Harrington			Date: , j , I., , ,, f ADtl f
Signature:			
CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)		CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)	
Phone #:		phone * 5io-578-4266	
		E-Mail/Website: . , . .  city.clerk@newark.org www.newark.org	
			

37101 Newark Boulevard • Newark, California 94560-3796 • (510) 578-4000 ♦ FAX (510) 578-4306

City Attorney’s Impartial Analysis of Measure “_________”

Measure “_____”	is	proposed	by	the	Newark City Council to place an extension of the existing

Utility Users Tax (“Tax”), with a tax rate reduction, on the November 4, 2014, Election Ballot
for voter consideration. The existing Tax was adopted by the voters in November, 2010, and is

set to expire on December 31, 2015. A “Yes” vote on Measure “_____”	means	the voter is in favor

of authorizing the City to extend the Tax for five (5) years to December 31, 2020, and, effective
January 1, 2016, the tax rate would be reduced from three and one-half percent (3.5%) to three

and one-quarter percent (3.25%). A “No” vote on Measure “_____” means the voter is not in favor

of authorizing the City to extend the Tax.

The Tax is a general tax that applies to the use of telecommunication (including landline
telephone and cell phone services), video (including cable television), and electricity and gas
services. Pursuant to federal law, internet access and satellite television are not taxed.

Senior citizens seventy (70) years old or more and low-income persons of any age who are
enrolled in the Pacific Gas & Electric Company’s (PG&E) CARE Program (“California
Alternate Rates for Energy” program) are exempt from the Tax upon application and approval by
the Tax Administrator. Government agencies such as the Newark Unified School District and
Ohlone College are also exempt. Any person who was deemed exempt from taxation under the
existing ordinance would be deemed exempt under Measure “

Revenues from Measure “_____” are legally required to be used in Newark for local city services

and under current law cannot be taken by either the State of California or Alameda County. The
Tax proceeds would continue to be deposited in the City’s General Fund and would be available
to the City for all of its programs and public services, such as police services and patrols, crime
prevention, anti-drug and gang-prevention programs, fire protection and 9-1-1 emergency
services, senior services, youth programs, park maintenance, street and pothole repair, and other
general services for the City of Newark.

Measure “_____”	includes	a requirement for annual financial audits of tax collection and

expenditures to be performed by a qualified, independent third party. The results of the annual
audits will be available to the public.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “________”.	The	full	text of the measure,

which includeSThe complete text of the City of Newark Utility Users Tax Ordinance, will be
printed in tbp Vote)-/krfjormation Pamphlet and also is available on the City of Newark website at
www.qfewar

City Attorney, City of Newark
Date: July 14, 2014

recycled paper

web site: www.newark.org

email: webmaster@newark.org

Argument in Favor of Measure X

Vote YES on X - Preserve the high quality of life we enjoy as Newark residents! With your support of Measure U in
2010, Newark is weathering the storm of the worst economic recession in modern times. Before Measure U was passed,
Newark was in a Fiscal Emergency. Drastic measures were taken to survive as a City:

•	Police staffing: REDUCED TO MINIMUM LEVELS, unable to respond to all calls

•	School Crossing Guards: ELIMINATED

•	H igh School Pol ice Officer: ELIMINATED

•	Senior Center: CLOSED

•	Community Center: CLOSED

•	Sunday Library Hours: ELIMINATED

•	Mowing/Watering of Neighborhood Parks: REDUCED TO MINIMUM

•	Street Maintenance: REDUCED TO MINIMUM LEVELS

•	Fiscal Reserves: DEPLETED

With the passage of Measure U in 2010, specific services and programs were restored as promised:

•	Police Staffing: INCREASED (residential burglaries down 51%)

•	School Crossing Guards: REINSTATED

•	High School Police Officer: REINSTATED

•	Senior Center: REOPENED

•	Mowing/Watering of Neighborhood Parks: INCREASED MAINTENANCE

•	New Programs in Police Dept: NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH AND RAVEN PROGRAMS

•	Street Maintenance: INCREASED MAINTENANCE

•	Fiscal Reserves: REPLENISHED

Newark has been fiscally prudent, doing everything possible to save money including no general salary increases for
over 6 years and deferring capital and other expenditures.

After conscientious review of City finances, we believe we can continue to deliver these important services at a reduced
rate of 3.25%, a .25% decrease from the current rate.

Every penny of Measure X is legally required to be spent in Newark. NO money can be taken by Sacramento.

YES on X includes annual independent financial audits and reports to the community to keep the City accountable for
how the funds are spent. Low-income residents and senior citizens over the age of 70 are exempt from Measure X.

Please join Police Officers, Chamber of Commerce, Educators, youth, seniors, and local residents in supporting YES on X.

Alan L. Nagy
Ethan Katz
David W. Smith
Vivien Larsen

Mayor, City of Newark

President, Newark Police Officers Association
Mayor Emeritus

Member Ohlone College Board of Trustees

Vote NO on the User Utility Tax (UUT). This tax was to be a temporary tax. We warned that once in
place they would come back and ask for an extension. The City now says that it is an integral part of
the budget and they can’t live without it. Why should a “fiscal emergency” temporary tax become an
integral part of the budget?

THIS IS WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW:

The City claims they need a UUT to continue to fund programs. What they don’t say.

•	A new Amazon distribution warehouse and new homes are coming on line and will increase the
tax base.

•	Remodel of NewPark Mall will increase sales tax. The City is giving back 80% of the tax
increase to facilitate remodel so why should they still need the UUT.

•	The Mayor, in his “State of the City” mentioned a new high-tech and research center coming to
Newark. Pacific Research Center is now 75% full. This brings more taxes to the City.

•	Value of property is rising. The Assessor is restoring or increasing values which increase the
tax base.

•	The majority of the collected utility tax has gone to repay a CalPers loan, not to increase
services.

The original UUT was passed under the “fiscal emergency” provision. There is no longer a fiscal
emergency.

Threatened cuts are either funded by the State or consist of those either under contract or supported
by volunteer programs. With a City Manager making a salary higher than the State Governor and a
new highly paid Asst. City Manager, it would seem that this small city is burdened with an unusually
high management and salary structure. Perhaps they should look there for the needed funds.

------(word count - 288) -



Title:

Signature



Date:	7"/

Date:



Please vote NO on Measure XX, the Utility Tax Extension.

The utility tax still has one more year to run. There is no longer a “fiscal emergency”, the basis
of the original need for the utility tax passed in 2010. The following figures, from the County
Assessor and the State Board of Equalization, show the City had losses at the time of the
original utility tax, but has recovered the entire lost income base. In the last two years the City
has had dramatic increases in assessments and sale tax. We no longer need a Utility Tax.

Assessor Data Note: Almost 1/2 Billion in increased Assessment for 2014.

Total 2014-2015 Roll value is $6,572,806,000

City of Newark Assessment Data	
Assessment Year	Gross Assessment increase or loss
2008-2009	$110,242,000
2009-2010	- $219,372,000
2010-2011	- $181,786,000
2011-2012	$34,744,000
2012-2013	$300,553,000
2013-2014	$251,037,000
2014-2015	$449,006,760
Total Increase 3/4 of a Billion	$744,424,760
	http://www.acgov.org/assessor/aboutus/annual.htm

State Board of Equalization Data on Sales Tax.

http://www.boe.ca.gov/legdiv/localTaxAllocations.htm

California Sales tax to Newark by Fiscal Year.			
Fiscal Year	Prior Year	Current Year	Increase/decrease
2007-2008	$6,339,258.19	$6,710,047.34	$370,789.15
2008-2009	$6,710,047.34	$5,530,647.39	- $1,179,399.95
2009-2010	$5,530,647.39	$5,146,004.62	- $384,642.77
2010-2011	$5,146,004.62	$5,367,574.06	$221,569.44
2011-2012	$5,367,574.06	$5,488,964.56	$121,390.50
2012-2013	$5,488,964.56	$6,890,312.92	$1,401,348.36
2013-2014	$6,890,312.92	$7,212,488.30	$322,175.38
2014-2015	$7,212,488.30	$482,000	Sum of above =
		2014-2015 first payments	$873,230.11

Name:	>

Title:

Signatun

Name

Title:

: ^WjTj 1 *> '

Signature

Name:

Title:

Name

Title:

Name:

Title:

\yy\)[d ^~Va\Vf

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE X

Once again, the opponents of Measure X are using the same old half-truth arguments while providing NO real solutions!

Their argument against is cleverly worded to promote misinformation and uncertainty in the minds of the voters. The
simple fact is this revenue makes up a full 9% of the City budget. We are coming out of the most severe recession in
modern history. Your local government took all steps possible to manage our City effectively with reduced revenues.
Painful cuts were made affecting the quality of life in our community.

Don't let the opponents' many inaccurate and misleading statements fool you!

Consider the FACTS:

•	Measure X will maintain critical City services and programs

•	Funding mechanisms like Measure X are already used by over 150 California cities because this money stays
local and can't be taken by Sacramento.

•	Newark has done a good job of attracting several new businesses. While these businesses will create badly
needed jobs, the amount of new tax revenue will be negligible.

•	Newark has significantly reduced staffing, frozen salary increases, closed facilities, and made other significant
budget reductions.

Citizens, educators, parents, the Chamber of Commerce, business leaders, and Newark public safety responders urge a
YES on X to preserve essential services.

Maintaining a high quality of life in Newark depends on you. If you want to maintain adequate police and fire protection
staffing; clean parks and streets, keep our Senior Center open; and School Crossing Guards, VOTE YES on X.

Word Count 243

Signers:

Alan L. Nagy
Mayor

Patricia "Pat" Danielson

Board Member, Washington Hospital Healthcare District

Rick Arellano
Professor, Ohlone College

Luis Freitas

Chairman of the Board of Directors, Newark Pavilion

Marla Blowers
Community Volunteer

ORDINANCE NO.

AN INITIATIVE ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE
CITY OF NEWARK EXTENDING A UTILITY USERS TAX ON UTILITY
SERVICES (ELECTRICITY, GAS, TELECOMMUNICATIONS,

AND VIDEO) AND AMENDING TITLE 3, REVENUE
AND FINANCE, BY AMENDING CHAPTER 3.18,

OF THE NEWARK MUNICIPAL CODE

NOW THEREFORE THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF NEWARK DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1

Chapter 3.18 of Title 3, REVENUE AND FINANCE, of the Newark Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read in full as follows

Chapter 3.18
Utility Users Tax

3.18.010	Ordinance title

3.18.020	Definitions

3.18.030	Exemptions

3.18.040	Telecommunications users tax

3.18.050	Video users tax

3.18.060	Electricity users tax

3.18.070	Gas users tax

3.18.080	Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas or
Electricity

3.18.090	Bundling taxable items with non-taxable items

3.18.100	Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts

3.18.105	Duty to Collect—Procedures

3.18.110	Collection penalties—Service suppliers

3.18.120	Actions to collect

3.18.130	Deficiency determination and assessment—Tax application errors

3.18.140	Administrative remedy—Non-paying service users

3.18.150	Additional powers and duties of the Tax Administrator

3.18.160	Records

3.18.170	Refunds

3.18.180	Appeals

3.18.190	No Inj unction /Writ of Mandate

3.18.200	Notice of changes to ordinance

3.18.210	Effect of state and federal reference—Authorization

3.18.220	Independent audit

3.18.230	Remedies cumulative

3.18.240	Termination of Utility Users Tax

3.18.010	Ordinance title

This chapter shall be known as the “Utility Users Tax” of the City of Newark.

3.18.020	Definitions

The following words and phrases whenever used in this chapter shall be construed as
defined in this section.

“Ancillary telecommunication services” mean services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services, including but not
limited to the following services:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that links two or more
participants of an audio or video conference call and may include the provision of a
telephone number. Conference bridging service does not include the telecommunications
services used to reach the conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunications billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing
statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone number
information and/or address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service that is offered in connection with one
or more telecommunications services, which offers advanced calling features that allow
customers to identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections, including
conference bridging services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables the customer to store,
send, or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any vertical
services that the customer may be required to have in order to utilize the voice mail
service.

“Ancillary video services” mean services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to electronic program guide
services, search functions, recording services, or other interactive services or communications
that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of video services.

“Billing address” means the mailing address of the service user where the service
supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

“City” means the City of Newark.

“City Manager” shall mean the City Manager, or his or her authorized representative.

2

“Gas” means natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel that may be
substituted therefore.

“Mobile telecommunications service” means commercial mobile
radio service, as defined in Section 20.3 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations and as set
forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the
regulations there under.

“Month” means a calendar month.

“Non-utility service supplier” means the following:

1.	A service supplier, other than a provider of electric distribution services to all or a
significant portion of the City that generates electricity for sale to others, including, but not
limited to, any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility, co-generator, distributed
generation provider, exempt wholesale generator, municipal utility district, federal power
marketing agency, electric rural cooperative, or other supplier or seller of electricity.

2.	An electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator
(including a community choice aggregator), pool, operator, or other electricity supplier other
than a provider of electric distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City that sells
or supplies electricity or supplemental services to electricity users within the City.

3.	A gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than a provider of
gas distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City that sells or supplies gas or
supplemental services to gas users within the City.

“Paging service” means a telecommunications service that provides transmission of
coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers; such transmissions may include
messages and/or sounds.

“Person” means, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust, common law trust,
estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock company, joint venture,
joint power authority, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic, and
non-profit), municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the City), cooperative,
receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.

“Place of primary use” means the street address where the customer’s use of a taxable
service primarily occurs, which must be the residential street address or the primary business
street address of the customer.

“Post-paid telecommunication service” means the telecommunication service obtained by
making a payment on a telecommunication -by- telecommunication basis either through the use
of a payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or by charge
made to a service number which is not associated with the origination or termination of the
telecommunication service.

“Prepaid telecommunication service” (including prepaid mobile telecommunication
service) means the right to access telecommunication services, which must be paid for in
advance and which enables the origination of communications using an access number or
authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed.

Ordinance No.	3

"Private telecommunication service" means a telecommunication service that entitles the
customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of channels between
or among termination points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or channels are
connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other associated
services that are provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A
communications channel is a physical or virtual path of communications over which signals are
transmitted between or among customer channel termination points (i.e., the location where the
customer either inputs or receives the communications).

“Service address” means the residential street address or the business street address of the
service user. For a telecommunication service user, "service address" means either:

(1)	The location of the service user’s communication equipment from which the
communication originates or terminates, regardless of where the communication is billed or paid;
or.

(2)	If the location in subsection (1) of this definition is unknown (e.g., mobile
telecommunications service or VoIP service), the service address means the location of the
service user's place of primary use.

(3)	For prepaid telecommunication service, “service address” means the point of
sale of the services where the point of sale is within the City, or if unknown, the known address
of the service user (e.g., billing address or location associated with the service number), which
locations shall be presumed to be the place of primary use.

“Service supplier” means any entity or person, including the City, that provides
telecommunication, video, gas, electrical, or refuse collection and disposal service to a user of
such service within the City.

“Service user” means a person required to pay a tax imposed under the provisions of this
chapter.

“Tax Administrator” means the finance director of the City or his or her designee.

“Telecommunications Service” means the transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice,
data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or among points,
whatever the technology used. The term “telecommunications services” includes such
transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP)
services or are classified by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value
added, and includes video and/or data services that is functionally integrated with
“telecommunication services”. “Telecommunications services” include, but are not limited to
the following services, regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or
billed:	ancillary	telecommunication	services;	intrastate,	interstate,	and	international

telecommunication services; mobile telecommunications service; prepaid telecommunication
service; post-paid telecommunication service; private telecommunication service; paging
service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission); 900 service (or any other similar numbers designated by the Federal
Communications Commission for services whereby subscribers who call in to pre-recorded or
live service).

“Video programming” means those programming services commonly provided to
subscribers by a “video service supplier” including but not limited to basic services, premium
services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, video on demand, origination
programming, or any other similar services, regardless of the content of such video
programming, or the technology used to deliver such services, and regardless of the manner or
basis on which such services are calculated or billed.

“Video services” mean video programming and any and all services related to the
providing, recording, delivering, use or enjoyment of video programming (including origination
programming and programming using Internet Protocol, e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video) using one or
more channels by a “video service supplier,” regardless of the technology used to deliver, store
or provide such services, and regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are
calculated or billed, and includes ancillary video services, data services, telecommunication
services, or interactive communication services that are functionally integrated with video
services.

“Video service supplier” means any person or service that provides or sells video
programming, or provides or sells the capability to receive video programming, including any
telecommunications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the provision, use or enjoyment
of the video programming, to or from a business or residential address in the City, where some
fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that service, whether or not
public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or
telecommunications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited to, multi-channel
video programming distributors (as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 522(13); open video systems
(OVS) suppliers; and suppliers of cable television; master antenna television; satellite master
antenna television; multi-channel multipoint distribution services (MMDS); video services using
Internet Protocol (e.g., IP-TV and IP-Video, which provide, among other things, broadcasting
and video on demand), direct broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its
video services, now or in the future; and other suppliers of video services (including two-way
communications), whatever their technology.

“VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) means the digital process of making and receiving
real-time voice transmissions over any Internet Protocol network.

“800 service” means a telecommunications service that allows a caller to dial a toll-free
number without incurring a charge for the call. The service is typically marketed under the name
“800,” “855,” “866,” “877” or “888” toll-free calling, and any subsequent numbers designated
by the Federal Communications Commission.

“900 service” means an inbound toll telecommunications service purchased by a
subscriber that allows the subscriber’s customers to call in to the subscriber’s prerecorded

Ordinance No.

5

announcement or live service. “900 service” does not include the charge for: collection services
provided by the seller of the telecommunications services to the subscriber, or service or product
sold by the subscriber to the subscriber’s customer. The service is typically marketed under the
name “900” service, and any subsequent numbers designated by the Federal Communications
Commission for pay for services calls.

3.18.030	Exemptions

A.	Consistency with State and Federal Law. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as imposing a tax upon any person or service when the imposition of such tax upon
such person or service would be in violation of a federal or state statute, the Constitution of the
United States or the Constitution of the state of California.

B.	Exemption Application. Any service user that is exempt pursuant to subsection
(A) from any tax imposed by this chapter pursuant shall file an application with the Tax
Administrator for an exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service
user that is a state or federal agency or subdivision (such as a public school district or a
community college district) with a commonly recognized name for such service. Said
application shall be made upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator and shall state those
facts declared under penalty of perjury which qualify the applicant for an exemption and shall
include the names of all utility service suppliers serving that service user. If deemed exempt by
the Tax Administrator such service user shall give the Tax Administrator timely written notice of
any change in utility service suppliers so that the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new
utility service supplier of the service user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to apply
and obtain an exemption pursuant to this Section shall not be entitled to a refund of utility user
taxes collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator from such service user as a result of such
noncompliance. The decision of the Tax Administrator maybe appealed pursuant to Section
3.18.180A of this Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the
City Manager pursuant to Section 3.18.180B of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

C.	The City. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon the
City of Newark.

D.	Low Income Exemption. A residential service user shall be exempt from the gas
and electric tax of this chapter if he or she is qualified and is enrolled in Pacific Gas & Electric
Company’s (PG&E) CARE Program (“California Alternate Rates for Energy” program).
Individuals receiving the exemption granted by this subsection must reside at the location
receiving the service; the exemption shall not apply to any nonresidential service location. A
residential service user that is qualified and is enrolled in the CARE Program shall be exempted
from the tax on telecommunication and/or video services by providing the Tax Administrator
with the names of the current utility service providers who provide his or her telecommunication
and video services, and any other information required by the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator will advise such utility service providers of the exempt status of its customer, and
the exemption shall become effective on the beginning of the second regular billing period which
commences after the Tax Administrator has notified the service supplier that an exemption has
been granted. Upon a showing of hardship by a service supplier, the Tax Administrator may, as
an alternative, implement this Section by requiring the exempt person to pay the tax and seek a

6

refund under Section 3.18.170. The Tax Administrator shall provide a refund claim form for this
purpose.

E.	Senior Citizen Exemption. 1) An exemption from any tax imposed under this
chapter shall be granted to any residential service user who is seventy (70) years of age or older
if such service user resides alone or if he or she shares his or her residence with a spouse or a
registered domestic partner, and at least one spouse or partner meets the age criteria for the
exemption.

2)	Any service user seeking an exemption pursuant to this subsection (E) from any tax
imposed by this chapter shall file an application with the Tax Administrator for an exemption.
Said application shall be made upon a form approved by the Tax Administrator and shall state
those facts, declared under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and
shall include the names of all service suppliers serving that service user. A Driver License or
Identification (ID) Card issued by the California Department of Motor Vehicles shall be prima
facie proof of age. Tax Administrator shall within sixty (60) days of receipt of an application for
exemption determine whether the exemption is granted, and if so notify the service supplier. The
exemption shall apply from the date of the Tax Administrator’s determination that the household
qualifies.

3)	The exemption granted to a person pursuant to this subsection (E) shall become
effective on the beginning of the second regular billing period which commences after the Tax
Administrator has notified the service supplier that an exemption has been granted. Upon a
showing of hardship by a service supplier, the Tax Administrator may, as an alternative
implement this Section by requiring the exempt person to pay the tax and seek a refund under
Section 3.18.170. The Tax Administrator shall provide a refund claim form for this purpose.

F.	Application Processing. 1) The Tax Administrator shall within sixty (60) days
of receipt of an application for exemption determine whether the exemption is granted, and if so
notify the service supplier. The exemption shall apply from the date of the Tax Administrator’s
determination that the household qualifies.

2) If the Tax Administrator determines that an application for exemption is faulty, that
the applicant has failed to truthfully set forth facts, or that the facts do not support the application
for exemption, the application shall be denied in writing to the applicant. The applicant shall
thereafter have a right to file an amended application, or to appeal the Tax Administrator’s
decision to the city manager within a ten-day period after the mailing date of the Tax
Administrator’s notification. In the case of an appeal, the city manager shall review the facts in
consultation with the city attorney, and shall render a final determination on such appeal.

G.	Effective Date of Exemption. The exemption granted to a person pursuant to
this Section shall become effective on the beginning of the first regular billing period which
commences after the Tax Administrator has notified the service supplier that an exemption has
been granted. Upon a showing of hardship by a service supplier, the Tax Administrator may, as
an alternative implement this Section by requiring the exempt person to pay the tax and seek a
refund under Section 3.18.170. The Tax Administrator shall provide a refund claim form for this
purpose.

7

H. Continuing Eligibility. The Tax Administrator in his or her sole discretion may
require annual written verification from the service user of his or her continuing eligibility for
any exemption granted under this Section. Any person deemed eligible for exemption under
subsections D and E of Ordinance No. 446 on the effective date of this Chapter 3.18 shall be
deemed eligible for exemption under subsections D and E hereof upon the effective date of this
Chapter 3.18.

3.18.040	Telecommunications users tax

A.	Telecommunications Users Tax Rate. There is hereby imposed a tax upon every
person in the City using telecommunication services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at
the rate of three and one-half (3.5%) percent of the charges made for such services and shall be
collected from the service user by the telecommunication services supplier or its billing agent.
Effective January 1, 2016, and thereafter, the rate shall be reduced to three and one-quarter
percent (3.25%). There is a rebuttable presumption that telecommunication services, which are
billed to a billing or service address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City’s
boundaries and such services are subject to taxation under this chapter. There is also a rebuttable
presumption that prepaid telecommunication services sold within the City are used, in whole or
in part, within the City and are therefore subject to taxation under this Chapter. If the billing
address of the service user is different from the service address, the service address of the service
user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax. As used in this section, the term “charges”
shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the telecommunication services.

B.	Sourcing Rules. “Mobile telecommunications service” shall be sourced in
accordance with the sourcing rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4
U.S.C. Section 124). The Tax Administrator may issue and disseminate to communication
service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this Chapter, sourcing
rules for the taxation of other communication services, including but not limited to post-paid
communication services, prepaid communication services, VoIP and private communication
services. In promulgating any sourcing rules hereunder the Tax Administrator shall take into
account but shall not be legally bound by custom and common practice that furthers
administrative efficiency and minimizes taxation by more that one state of the same service
usage, commonly referred to as multi-jurisdictional taxation. In doing so the Tax Administrator
may refer to and/or rely upon the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, and/or any other
reasonable precedent or resource.

C.	Authority for Administrative Rulings. The Tax Administrator may issue and
disseminate to telecommunication service suppliers which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this Chapter, an administrative ruling identifying those telecommunication
services, or charges therefore, that are subject to the tax of subsection (A) above.

D.	Specific Inclusions in Telecommunication Services. As used in this section, the
term “telecommunication services” shall include, but are not limited to, charges for the
following: connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change of telecommunication
services; late payment fees; detailed billing; central office and custom calling features (including
but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification, and three-way calling);

Ordinance No.	8

voice mail and other messaging services; directory assistance; access and line charges; universal
service charges; all fees, charges and surcharges, including those mandated by state or federal
regulatory agencies to fund such agencies or various mandated programs (whether such charges
or surcharges are imposed on the service supplier or the customer); local number portability
charges; and text and instant messaging.

E.	Specific Exclusions from Telecommunications Services. As used in this
Section, “telecommunications services” shall not include digital downloads that are not
ancillary telecommunications services such as books, music, ringtones, games, and similar
digital products.

F.	Multi-Jurisdictional Taxation. To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of
telecommunication services subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the
Tax Administrator that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another state or local
jurisdiction on such telecommunication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax
imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state or local
jurisdiction; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City
under this section.

G.	Collection of Telecommunication Users Tax. The telecommunication user tax
imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier. The
amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

3.18.050	Video users tax

A.	Video Users Tax Rate. There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the
City using video services from a video provider. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of three and one-half (3.5%) percent of the charges made for such services and shall be
collected from the service user by the video service supplier or its billing agent. Effective
January 1, 2016, and thereafter, the rate shall be reduced to three and one-quarter percent
(3.25%). There is a rebuttable presumption that video services that are billed to a billing or
service address in the City, are used, in whole or in part, within the City’s boundaries, and such
services are subject to taxation under this chapter. If the billing address of the service user is
different from the service address, the service address of the service user shall be used for
purposes of imposing the tax.

B.	Video Charges. As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include, but is
not limited to, charges for the following:

1.	Regulatory fees and surcharges, franchise fees, and access fees (e.g., “PEG” fees),
whether designated on the customer’s bill or not, or whether they are imposed on the service
provider or the customer.

2.	Initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of video
services.

3.	Late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees.

Ordinance No.	9

4.	Activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees.

5.	Video programming and video services.

6.	Ancillary video services (e.g., electronic program guide services, recording
functions, search functions, or other interactive services or communications that are ancillary,
necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of video services).

7.	Equipment leases (e.g., remote, recording or search devices, converters, remote
devices).

8.	Service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services, and
special services.

C.	Charges Further Defined. As used in this section, the term “charges” shall
include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the video services.

D.	Authority for Administrative Rulings. The Tax Administrator may issue and
disseminate to video service suppliers which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this
Chapter an administrative ruling identifying those video services or charges therefor that are
subject to or not subject to the tax of subsection (A) above

E.	Collection of Video Users Tax. The tax imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the video service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of
such services. In the case of video service, the service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser
of the bulk video service (e.g., an apartment owner), unless such service is resold to individual
users, in which case the service user shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video service. The
amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

3.18.060	Electricity users tax

A.	Electricity Users Tax Rate. There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in
the City using electricity. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three and one-
half (3.5%) percent of the charges made for such electricity, and for any supplemental services
or other associated activities directly related to and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to
the service users that are provided by a service supplier or non-utility service supplier to a
service user. Effective January 1, 2016, and thereafter, the rate shall be reduced to three and
one-quarter percent (3.25%).

B.	Electricity Charges. As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include, but
is not limited to, the following charges:

1.	Energy charges.

2.	Distribution or transmission	charges.

3.	Metering charges.

Ordinance No.

10

4.	Stand-by, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation, emergency or
other similar minimum charges for services.

5.	Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges,
demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange charges, independent system
operator (ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive transition charges (CTC), public
purpose program charges, nuclear decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts (bond
financing charges), franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and other
charges, fees, or surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt use or enjoyment
of electric service; and,

6.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for electric services or programs, which are
mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item
basis on the customer billing, or whether they are imposed on the service provider or the
customer.

C.	Electricity Charges Further Defined. As used in this section, the term
“charges” shall include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature,
or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the electricity or services
related to the provision of such electricity.

D.	Survey of Electricity Service Suppliers—Authority for Administrative
Rulings. The Tax Administrator shall, from time to time, survey the electric service suppliers in
the City to identify the various unbundled billing components of the electric retail service that
are being offered to customers within the City, and the charges therefore, including those items
that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such electric
service. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such electric service
suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items that are: (1) necessary
for or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service; or (2) currently are or
historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall
be subject to the tax of subsection (A) above.

E.	“Using Electricity” Further Defined. As used in this Section the term “using
electricity” shall not include the mere receiving of such electricity by an electrical corporation or
governmental agency at a point within the City for resale.

F.	Collection of Electricity Users Tax. The tax on electricity provided by self-
production or by a non-utility service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be
collected and remitted in the manner set forth in Section 3.18.080 of this Chapter. All other
taxes on charges for electricity imposed by this Section shall be collected from the service user
by the electric service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of the person required to
collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the
tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user which must be
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month
provided that such person shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit as appropriate

within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax
Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent remittance that becomes due.

3.18.070	Gas users tax

A.	Gas Users Tax Rate. There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the
City using gas that is delivered through a distribution system or by mobile transport. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three and one-half (3.5%) percent of the charges
made for such gas, including all services related to the storage, transportation and delivery of
such gas, and shall apply to all uses of gas, including but not limited to, heating, electricity
generation, or the use of gas as a component of a manufactured product. Effective January 1,
2016, and thereafter, the rate shall be reduced to three and one-quarter percent (3.25%).

B.	Gas Charges. As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all
services components and items for gas service that are [1] necessary for or common to the
receipt, use, or enjoyment of gas service; or, [2] currently are or historically have been included
in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a class of retail
customers. The term “charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

1.	The commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned by the
service user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting,
storage, gathering, trunk-line, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with
the production and delivery of such gas), which is delivered through a gas
pipeline distribution system or by mobile transportation.

2.	Gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not included
in commodity charges).

3.	Storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier shall not be required
to apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the service supplier
cannot, as a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where such stored gas is
ultimately used; but it shall be the obligation of the service user to self-collect the
amount of tax not applied to any charge for gas storage by the service supplier
and to remit the tax to the appropriate jurisdiction.

4.	Capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, transition charges, customer charges, minimum charges,
annual and monthly charges, and any other charges, which are necessary or
common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of gas service.

5.	Charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs, which are mandated by
the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line
item basis on the customer billing, or whether they are imposed on the service provider or
the customer.

C.	Gas Charges Further Defined. As used in this section, the term “charges” shall
include the value of any other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other

Ordinance No.

12

consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the gas or services related to the
delivery of such gas.

D.	Survey of Gas Service Suppliers; Authority for Administrative Rulings. The

Tax Administrator from time to time may survey the gas suppliers to identify the various
unbundled billing components of gas retail service that they commonly provide to residential and
commercial/industrial customers in the City and the charges therefore, including those items that
are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such gas service.
The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such gas service suppliers an
administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are: [1] necessary for or
common to the receipt use or enjoyment of gas service, or, [2] currently are or historically have
been included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the tax of
subsection (A) above.

E.	Exclusion for Resale. There shall be excluded from the calculation of the tax
imposed in this Section charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a
pipeline distribution system.

F.	Collection of Gas Users Tax. The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a
non-utility service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected and
remitted in the manner set forth in Section 3.18.080 of this Chapter. All other taxes on charges
for gas imposed by this Section shall be collected from the service user by the gas service
supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to
the Tax Administrator and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of the person required to collect and/or remit
the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the
previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user, which must be received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month provided that
such person shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit as appropriate within sixty
(60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator,
may be applied against any subsequent remittance that becomes due.

3.18.080	Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas or
Electricity

A. Report to Tax Administrator. Any service user subject to the tax imposed by
Sections 3.18.060 or 3.18.070 that produces gas or electricity for self-use, that receives gas or
electricity, including any related supplemental services, directly from a non-utility service
supplier not under the jurisdiction of this chapter, or that, for any other reason, is not having the
full tax collected and remitted by its service supplier, a non-utility service supplier, or its billing
agent on the use of gas or electricity, including any related supplemental services, in the City,
shall report said fact to the Tax Administrator and shall remit the tax due directly to the Tax
Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use. In lieu of paying said actual tax, the service
user may, at its option, remit to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use an
estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the payment
pattern of similar customers of the service supplier using similar amounts of gas or electricity,
provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as

13

appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by
the Tax Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

B.	Investigation. The Tax Administrator may require said service user to identify its
non-utility service supplier and provide, subject to audit, invoices, books of account or other
satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used, including any related
supplemental services, and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is unable to provide such
satisfactory evidence, or, if the administrative cost of calculating the tax in the opinion of the
Tax Administrator is excessive, the Tax Administrator may determine the tax by applying the tax
rate to the equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if the gas or electricity used,
including any related supplemental services, had been provided by the service supplier that is the
primary supplier of gas or electricity within the City. The rate schedule for this purpose shall be
available from the City.

3.18.090	Bundling taxable items with non-taxable items

If any nontaxable charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable
service charges on the customer bill or invoice of a service supplier, the combined charge is
subject to tax unless the service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable standards, the
portions of the combined charge that are nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier’s
books and records kept in the regular course of business, and in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. If the service
supplier offers a combination of taxable and non-taxable services, and the charges are separately
stated, then for taxation purposes, the values assigned the taxable and non-taxable services shall
be based on its books and records kept in the regular course of business and in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The
service supplier has the burden of proving the proper valuation of the taxable and non-taxable
services.

3.18.100	Substantial Nexus/Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collected and remit a tax under
this Chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of
the imposition collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted
by state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by
statutory enactment. Any telecommunication service (including VoIP) used by a person with a
service address in the City which service is capable of terminating a call to another person on the
general telephone network shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial
nexus/minimum contacts” exists for purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect
and remit a tax under this Chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed to have sufficient activity
in the City for tax collection and remittance purposes if its activities include but are not limited
to any of the following maintains or has within the City directly or through an agent, affiliate, or
subsidiary, a place of business of any nature; solicits business in the City by employees,
independent contractors, resellers, agents, or other representatives; solicits business in the City
on a continuous regular, seasonal, or systematic basis by means of advertising that is broadcast
or relayed from a transmitter within the City or distributed from a location within the City; or
advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the City or through
materials distributed in the City by means other than the United States mail; or if there are

Ordinance No.

14

activities performed in the City on behalf of the service supplier that are significantly associated
with the service supplier’s ability to establish and maintain a market in the City for the provision
of services that are subject to a tax under this Chapter.

3.18.105	Duty to Collect—Procedures

A.	Collection by Service Suppliers. The duty of service suppliers to collect
and remit the taxes imposed by the provisions of this Chapter shall be performed as
follows:

(1)	The tax shall be collected by service suppliers insofar as practicable at the same time
as, and along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance with the regular
billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by a service user to a
service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge and tax which was accrued for
the billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to
have been paid. In those cases where a service user has notified the service supplier of
refusal to pay the tax imposed on said charges. Section 3.18.140 shall apply.

(2)	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall commence
with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the service user where
all charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this
Chapter. Where a service user receives more than one billing, one or more being for
different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing
period.

B.	Filing Return and Payment. Each person required by this Chapter to remit a tax
shall file a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax Administrator, on or
before the due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included with the return and
filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to require such additional
information as he or she deems necessary to determine if the tax is being levied, collected, and
remitted in accordance with this Chapter. Returns are due immediately upon cessation of
business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code Section 7284.6, the Tax
Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as confidential information that
is exempt from the disclosure provisions of the Public Records Act.

3.18.110	Collection penalties—Service suppliers

A.	Due Date for Taxes—Delinquencies. Taxes collected from a service user are
delinquent if not received by the Tax Administrator on or before the due date. Should the due
date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator
on the first regular working day following the weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit,
including electronic fund transfers and other similar methods of electronically exchanging
monies between financial accounts, made by a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations
under this subsection shall be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due
date, and the transfer settles into the City’s account on the following business day.

B.	Failure to Collect or Remit. If the person required to collect and/or remit a tax

imposed pursuant to this chapter fails to collect the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on
one or more services or charges on the customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or
before the due date, the Tax Administrator shall attach a penalty for such delinquencies or
Ordinance No.	15

deficiencies at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is delinquent or deficient in
the remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate of and 75/100ths percent (0.75%) per month, or
any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

C.	Penalties for Fraud or Gross Negligence in Reporting or Remitting. The Tax

Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon persons required to
collect and remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for fraud or gross negligence in
reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the tax collected
and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax Administrator.

D.	Penalties Due as Tax. For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and
such interest that is accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax
herein required to be paid.

E.	Authority to Modify Due Dates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tax
Administrator may, in his or her discretion, modify the due dates of this chapter to be consistent
with any uniform standards or procedures that are mutually agreed upon by other public agencies
imposing a utility users tax, or otherwise legally established, to create a central payment location
or mechanism.

3.18.120	Actions to collect

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a service user
which has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by
the person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service user. Any
person owing money to the City under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action
brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount, including penalties and interest
as provided for in this chapter, along with any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of
the person’s noncompliance with this chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys’
fees. Any tax required to be collected by a service supplier or owed by a service user is an
unsecured priority excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8)(C). Service
suppliers who seek to collect charges for service in bankruptcy proceedings shall also include in
any such claim the amount of taxes due the City for those services, unless the Tax Administrator
determines that such duty is in conflict with any federal or state law, rule, or regulation or that
such action would be administratively impractical.

3.18.130	Deficiency determination and assessment—Tax application errors

A. Tax Deficiency Determinations. The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency
determination if he or she determines that any service user or service supplier required to pay or
collect taxes pursuant to the provisions of this chapter has failed to pay, collect, and/or remit the
proper amount of tax by improperly or failing to apply the tax to one or more taxable services or
charges. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute proceedings under this
section if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection or enforcement likely
outweighs the tax benefit.

Ordinance No.	16

B.	Notice of Deficiency. The Tax Administrator shall mail a notice of such
deficiency determination to the person or entity allegedly owing the tax, which notice shall refer
briefly to the amount of the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of 75/100ths percent (0.75%) per
month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should
have been received by the City. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of service of
such notice, the person or entity allegedly owing the tax may request in writing to the Tax
Administrator a hearing on the matter.

C.	Hearing on Deficiency. If the person or entity allegedly owing the tax fails to
request a hearing within the prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency determination
shall become a final assessment, and shall immediately be due and owing to the City. If such
person or entity requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the matter to be set for
hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirty (30) days after receipt of the written request for
hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator to
such person at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Administrator
desires said person to produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate the
records requested to be produced.

D.	Determination after Hearing. At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax
Administrator shall hear all relevant testimony and evidence, including that of any other
interested parties. At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be continued from
time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of additional evidence. Within a
reasonable time following the conclusion of the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final
assessment (or non-assessment), thereafter, by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original
deficiency determination, and shall mail a copy of such final assessment to person or entity
owing the tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to Section

3.18.180	of this chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City
Manager pursuant to Section 3.18.180 of this chapter is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

E.	Delinquencies. Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not
received by the Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of
receipt of the notice of final assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen percent
(15%) on the total amount of the assessment, along with interest at the rate of 75/100ths (0.75%)
percent per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from
the date of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the
City seeking payment of a tax assessed under this chapter shall commence from the date of
delinquency as provided in this subsection.

F.	Notice of Delinquency. All notices under this section may be sent by regular
mail, postage prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following the date
of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

3.18.140	Administrative remedy—Non-paying service users

A.	Administrative Remedies for the Obligation to Collect Tax. Whenever the Tax
Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax
owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or
whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she may relieve
such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this chapter from certain named
Ordinance No.	17

service users for specific billing periods. To the extent the service user has failed to pay the
amount of tax owed for a period of two or more billing periods, the service supplier shall be
relieved of the obligation to collect taxes due. The service supplier shall provide the City with
the names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the
provisions of this chapter. Nothing herein shall require that the Tax Administrator institute
proceedings under this section if, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, the cost of collection
or enforcement likely outweighs the tax benefit.

B.	Delinquency Penalty. In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a
delinquency penalty at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall
pay interest at the rate of 75/100ths percent (0.75%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.

C.	Notice to Non-Paying Service User. The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-
paying service user that the Tax Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes
due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes, including penalties and interest.
The notice shall be served on the service user by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in
the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the service user at the address to which
billing was made by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have a
change of address, to his or her last known address.

D.	Additional Penalties. If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax
Administrator within thirty (30) days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her,
the Tax Administrator may impose an additional penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount
of the total tax that is owed.

3.18.150	Additional powers and duties of the Tax Administrator

A.	Enforcement by Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator shall have the
power and duty, and is hereby directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this chapter.

B.	Administrative Regulations Regarding Payment. The Tax Administrator may
adopt administrative rules and regulations consistent with provisions of this Chapter for the
purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out, and enforcing the payment, collection, and
remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such administrative rules and regulations
shall be on file in the Tax Administrator’s office. To the extent that the Tax Administrator
determines that the tax imposed under this Chapter shall not be collected in full for any period of
time from any particular service supplier or service user, that determination shall be considered
an exercise of the Tax Administrator’s discretion to settle disputes and shall not constitute a
change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750 or otherwise.
The Tax Administrator is not authorized to amend the City’s methodology for purposes of
Government Code Section 53750, and the City does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose
the utility users tax in full as a result of promulgating administrative rulings or entering into
agreements.

C.	Administrative Agreements Regarding Billing Procedures. Upon a proper

showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements, with
appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of this chapter and thereby: (1)
conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so long as said agreements
result in the collection of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of this
Ordinance No.	18

chapter; or (2) to avoid a hardship where the administrative costs of collection and remittance
greatly outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax
Administrator’s office, and are voidable by the Tax Administrator or the City at any time.

D.	Compliance Audits. The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure
proper compliance with the requirements of this chapter, of any person required to collect and/or
remit a tax pursuant to this chapter. The Tax Administrator shall notify said person of the
initiation of an audit in writing. In the absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit
period of review shall not exceed a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of
the written notice by said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon completion of the audit, the
Tax Administrator may make a deficiency determination pursuant to Section 3.18.130 of this
chapter for all taxes (and applicable penalties and interest) owed and not paid, as evidenced by
information provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If said person is unable or
unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax Administrator to verify compliance
with this chapter, the Tax Administrator is authorized to make a reasonable estimate of the
deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

E.	Extension of Time. Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good
cause, the Tax Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to
this chapter for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the time for filing the
required statement has not already passed when the request is received. No penalty for
delinquent payment shall accrue by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue during said
extension at the rate of 75/100ths percent (0.75%) per month, prorated for any portion thereof.

F.	Eligibility for Exemption. The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility
of any person who asserts a right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this
chapter.

G.	Waiver of Penalties and Interest. Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapter
3.18 to the contrary, the Tax Administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a
person required to collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by this Chapter 3.18
if the non-collection occurred in good faith. In determining whether the non-collection was in
good faith, the Tax Administrator shall take into consideration the uniqueness of the product or
service, industry practice or other precedence, or whether the person offers to voluntarily
disclose its tax liability. The Tax Administrator may also participate with other utility users tax
public agencies in conducting coordinated compliance reviews with the goal of achieving
administrative efficiency and uniform tax application determinations, where possible. To
encourage voluntary full disclosure and on-going cooperation on tax collection and remittance,
the Tax Administrator, and its agents, may enter into agreements with the tax-collecting service
providers and grant prospective only effect on any changes regarding the taxation of services or
charges that were previously deemed by the service provider, in good faith and without gross
negligence, to be non-taxable. In determining whether the non-collection was in good faith and
without gross negligence, the Tax Administrator shall take into consideration the uniqueness of
the product or service, industry practice or other precedence, and whether the disclosure was
voluntarily made by the service provider or its agent.

3.18.160	Records

A.	Retention of Necessary Tax Records. It shall be the duty of every person
required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve,
for a period of at least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount
of such tax as he/she may have been liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax
Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at a
reasonable time.

B.	Administrative Subpoenas. The City through the City Council may issue an
administrative subpoena to compel a person to deliver to the Tax Administrator copies of all
records deemed necessary by the Tax Administrator to establish compliance with this chapter,
including the delivery of records in a common electronic format on readily available media if
such records are kept electronically by the person in the usual and ordinary course of business.
As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the
due date provided in the administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to such
records outside the City on or before the due date, provided that such person shall reimburse the
City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect those records, including
travel, lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly
wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

C.	Non-Disclosure Agreements. The Tax Administrator is authorized to execute a
non-disclosure agreement approved by the city attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer
information pursuant to California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.

D.	Use of Billing Agents. If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing
aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: (1) provide to the Tax
Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing
aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the
City; and (2) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any
information or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the
opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation,
collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

E.	Access to Necessary Records. If any person subject to record-keeping under this
section unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator access to such records, or fails to produce the
information requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified, then the Tax
Administrator may impose a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00) on such person for each
day following: (1) the initial date that the person refuses to provide such access; or (2) the due
date for production of records as set forth in the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in
addition to any other penalty imposed under this Chapter.

3.18.170	Refunds

Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this chapter from a
person or service supplier, it may be refunded as provided in this section as follows:

A. Tax Administrator Authority. The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that
has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter from a service user or service supplier

Ordinance No.

20

provided that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless the claimant or
his or her guardian, conservator, executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to the
Tax Administrator within one (1) year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of
said tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant’s right to the refund by written records
showing entitlement thereto. To the extent allowed by law, nothing herein shall permit the filing
of a claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers unless each member of the class has
submitted a written claim under penalty of perjury as provided by this subsection.

B.	Action on Claim for Refund. The Tax Administrator, where the claim is within
his or her settlement authority as established by ordinance or by resolution of the City Council
from time to time, or the City Council where the claim is in excess of that amount, shall act upon
the refund claim within forty-five (45) calendar days of the initial receipt of the refund claim.
Said decision shall be final. If the Tax Administrator/City Council fails or refuses to act on a
refund claim within the forty-five (45) calendar day period, the claim shall be deemed to have
been rejected by the Tax Administrator/City Council on the forty-fifth (45th) day. The Tax
Administrator shall give notice of the action in a form which substantially complies with that set
forth in Government Code Section 913.

C.	Written Claim for Refund. The filing of a written claim pursuant to Government
Code Section 935 is a prerequisite to any suit thereon. Any action brought against the City
pursuant to this Section shall be subject to the provisions of Government Code Section 945.6 and
946.

D. Refunds to Service Suppliers. Notwithstanding subsections (A) through (C)
above, the Tax Administrator may, at his or her discretion, give written permission to a service
supplier, who has collected and remitted any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax
imposed by this Chapter, to claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is
due the City upon a subsequent monthly retum(s) to the Tax Administrator, provided that: [1]
such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year from the date of overpayment or
erroneous collection of said tax; [2] the Tax Administrator is satisfied that the underlying basis
and amount of such credit has been reasonably established; and, [3] in the case of an
overpayment by a service user to the service supplier that has been remitted to the City, the Tax
Administrator has received proof, to his or her satisfaction, that the overpayment has been
refunded by the service supplier to the service user in an amount equal to the requested credit.

3.18.180	Appeals

A. Administrative Appeals. The provisions of this Section apply to any decision
(other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.18.170 of this Chapter),
deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator. Any
person aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section

3.18.170	of this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the
Tax Administrator, shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of this Section.
Compliance with this Section shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. (See Government Code
Section 93 5 [b]). To the extent allowed by law, nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim
or action on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

21

B.	Appeal to City Manager. If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than
a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.18.170 of this chapter), deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Administrator, he or she may
appeal to the city manager by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within fourteen (14)
days of the date of the decision, deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of
the Tax Administrator which aggrieved said person.

C.	Scheduling of Administrative Appeal Hearing. The matter shall be scheduled
for hearing before an independent hearing officer selected by the city manager, no more than
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the
time and place of the hearing, as well as any relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar days
prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to time upon mutual consent. At
the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the Tax Administrator, and any other interested
person may present such relevant evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination
from which the appeal is taken.

D.	Notice of Decision. Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review
of the City’s files, the hearing officer shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying
or reversing the determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within
fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision.
The notice shall specify that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be
filed within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1094.6.

E.	Manner of Notice. All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail,
postage prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third (3rd) calendar day following the date
of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

3.18.190	No Inj unction /Writ of Mandate

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer of the City to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected and/or remitted.

3.18.200	Notice of changes to ordinance

If a tax under this chapter is added repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is
changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of California Public
Utilities Code Section 799.

3.18.210	Effect of state and federal reference—Authorization

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this
chapter shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time, provided that such
reference to a statute herein shall not include any subsequent amendment thereto, or to any
subsequent change of interpretation thereto by a state or federal agency or court of law with the
duty to interpret such law, to the extent that such amendment or change of interpretation would
require voter approval under California law, or to the extent that such change would result in a
Ordinance No.	22

tax decrease (as a result of excluding all or a part of a utility service, or charge therefore, from
taxation). Only to the extent voter approval would otherwise be required or a tax decrease would
result, the prior version of the statute (or interpretation) shall remain applicable; for any
application or situation that would not require voter approval or result in a decrease of a tax,
provisions of the amended statute (or new interpretation) shall be applicable to the maximum
possible extent.

To the extent that the City’s authorization to collect or impose any tax imposed under this
chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law, no amendment or
modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax
shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of the authorization up to the full amount of the
tax imposed under this chapter.

3.18.220	Independent audit

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this chapter have been properly
applied, collected, and remitted in accordance with this chapter, and properly expended
according to applicable law. The annual verification shall be performed by a qualified,
independent third party, and the review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure
compliance, including the use of sampling audits. The verification shall not be required of tax
remitters where the cost of the verification may exceed the tax revenues to be received.

3.18.230	Remedies cumulative

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this chapter or which are available under any
other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims Act
(Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act (Business and
Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by the
City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
chapter.

3.18.240	Termination of Utility Users Tax

The levy of taxes as provided in this Chapter shall expire on December 31, 2020 unless re-
enacted by a separate ordinance approved by a vote of the People of the City of Newark
conducted pursuant to law. The termination of the levy of taxes as provided herein shall not
terminate the obligation to pay taxes levied on services used prior to such date. Taxes levied
prior to December 31, 2020 shall remain a debt payable to the City. All provisions of this
Chapter except those relating to the levy of taxes shall continue in full force and effect after such
date.

Section 2

Severability. If any section subsection sentence clause phrase or portion of this Ordinance is for
any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction the remaining
portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The People hereby
declare that they would have adopted each section subsection sentence clause phrase or portion
of this Ordinance irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections subsections sentences
clauses phrases or portions of this Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

23

Section 3

Amendment or Repeal Chapter 3.18 of Title 3 of the Newark Municipal Code may be repealed
or amended by the City Council without a vote of the people. However as required by Article
XIII C of the California Constitution voter approval is required for any amendment provision
that would increase the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance. The People of the City
of Newark affirm that the following actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax

A.	The restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this Ordinance
if the City Council has acted to reduce the rate of the tax;

B.	An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax or any definition applicable
to the tax so long as interpretation or clarification (even if contrary to some prior interpretation
or clarification) is not inconsistent with the language of this Ordinance;

C.	The establishment of a class of person that is exempt or excepted from the tax or the
discontinuation of any such exemption or exception other than the discontinuation of an
exemption or exception specifically set forth in this Ordinance; and,

D.	The collection of the tax imposed by this Ordinance even if the City had for some period of
time failed to collect the tax.

Section 4

Effective Date This Chapter shall become effective immediately upon the date that this
Ordinance is adopted by voters of the City of Newark at the election of November 4, 2014.

Section 5. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of the Ordinance
by the voters of the City by signing where indicated below.

24