Ballot question

The question on the ballot:[i]

Without raising current tax rates, shall an ordinance be adopted
modernizing the City’s utility users tax ordinance to require equal
treatment of taxpayers by ensuring the tax applies regardless of
technology used; exempting seniors, low-income disabled/blind residents;
funding current gang prevention, youth, after-school, senior and disabled
programs; neighborhood patrols/school crossing guards, pothole repairs,
and other general services; subject to financial audits, local control of
funds/no rate increase without voter approval? [2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure B:[3]

Measure B was placed on the ballot by the Norwalk City Council and
would affirm, continue and amend the City's existing Utility Users Tax
("UUT") to make it clear that it applies to both older and newer
communication technologies and equally treats all users of
communications services regardless of the technology they use.

Background

The UUT is a tax levied on users of gas, electricity and
telecommunications services in the City. UUT revenues are used to
finance such general city services as police protection, street repair,
parks, libraries and other local services. These funds cannot be taken
away by the State.

The UUT was first adopted by the Norwalk City Council and later
approved by the voters at an election held in 2003. The original ordinance
adopted by the City Council applied the UUT to a broad range of
telecommunications services. The voters, by approving that ordinance,
indicated their intent to apply the UUT to a broad range of
telecommunications services.

The City's UUT ordinance, like those of most California cities with
telecommunications UUT's, was written before new telecommunications
technologies became available. The City's UUT ordinance was also
written before changes in interpretation of federal law. In response to
these new technologies and changes in interpretation of federal law and to
protect the 2003 voters' intent, this measure would update the language of
the UUT to ensure it continues to apply to a broad range of
telecommunications users.

Measure B

•	Would not increase the current tax rate of 5.5%.

•	Would modernize the City's UUT and treat all users of
telecommunications services equally by including new and
future technologies and applying the UUT to all intrastate,
interstate and international communications services,
regardless of the technology used to provide such services.

•	Would affirm the general intent of the voters at the 2003
election that the UUT apply to a broad range of
telecommunications services.

•	Would preserve existing exemptions for low-income seniors and
disabled persons.

•	Would require annual audits to confirm the UUT is properly
collected and spent by the City.

•	Would reorganize and update the UUT administration and
collection procedures.

•	Would not affect the current UUT on electricity and gas.

Measure B requires a majority vote for approval. A "yes" vote is a vote in
favor of adopting the revised UUT ordinance. A "no" vote will reject the
proposed amendments to the UUT ordinance and continue the UUT in its
current form.[2]

•Steven L. Dorsey, Norwalk City Attorneys