RESOLUTION NO. R-2014-071

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PISMO BEACH ORDERING THE
SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE CITY A MEASURE RELATING TO
THE EXTENSION OF A LOCAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX AT THE GENERAL
ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2014, AND DIRECTING THE CITY
ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS THEREOF

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Pismo Beach has by Resolution No. R-2014-
065 called for a general municipal election to be held on November 4,2014; and

WHEREAS, in 2008, the voters of the City of Pismo Beach approved an ordinance
adding Chapter 3.22 of the Pismo Beach City Municipal Code, establishing a local transactions
and use tax at the rate of 0.5 percent; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has the authority under Elections Code Section 9222 to
place on the ballot a measure for the voters of the City of Pismo Beach to extend the
implementation of Chapter 3.22 of the Pismo Beach City Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, Section 2(b) of Article XIII C of the California Constitution, added by
Proposition 218, effective November, 1996, requires that a measure proposing a general tax
be submitted to the voters at an election consolidated with a regularly scheduled general
election for members of the governing body of the local government except in cases of
emergency as declared by the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California Constitution Article XIII C, Section 2(b) and Elections
Code Section 10201, the City has determined to submit a measure to the voters to enact an
ordinance extending the transactions and use tax at the City’s next regular consolidated
general municipal election.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PISMO BEACH DOES
RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Pursuant to Election Code Section 9222, the proposed ballot proposition
attached hereto as Exhibit A, and titled “AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PISMO BEACH
EXTENDING CHAPTER 3.22,TITLE 3 OF THE PISMO BEACH MUNICIPAL CODE
ESTABLISHING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION”, is hereby approved for placement on the ballot and submission
to voters at the City’s regular election scheduled for November 4, 2014. The question shall be
posed as follows:

CITY OF PISMO BEACH MEASURE		
The Pismo Beach Vital Public Service Protection Measure. To continue to help preserve, enhance and improve the infrastructure, safety and character of Pismo Beach, shall an ordinance be adopted to extend the existing one-half cent increase to the City of Pismo Beach sales tax, approved by the voters in 2008, for a period of twelve (12) years?	YES	
	NO	

Section 2. City staff is directed to take all appropriate and necessary actions to cause
the foregoing proposition to be placed on the ballot at the regular election of November 4,

2014.

Section 3. Pursuant to Election Code Section 9280, the City Attorney of the City of
Pismo Beach is hereby directed to prepare and submit an impartial analysis explaining the
effect of the measure on existing law and the operation of the measure.

Section 4. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this resolution,
and immediately transmit a certified copy of this resolution to the San Luis Obispo County
Clerk-Recorder for inclusion on the November 4, 2014, ballot.

UPON MOTION OF Mayor Pro Tern Waage, seconded by Council Member Reiss, the
foregoing resolution was passed, approved and adopted by the City Council of the City of
Pismo Beach this 1 st day of July 2014, by the following roll call vote:

AYES:	4	Council	Members	Waage,	Reiss,	Howell	and	Higginbotham

NOES:	0

ABSENT:	1	Council	Member	Vardas

ABSTAIN:	0

Approved:

Attest:

ShellyHigginbotham

Mayor

Elaina Cano, CMC
City Clerk

ORDINANCE NO. 0-2014-XXX

EXHIBIT A

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PISMO BEACH ADDING CHAPTER
3.22, TITLE 3 OF THE PISMO BEACH MUNICIPAL CODE EXTENDING
A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PISMO BEACH AND
THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF PISMO BEACH, AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. FINDINGS

A.	One of the primary roles of City government is to provide vital public services such as
public safety; street and sidewalk maintenance; pothole repair; parks and recreation
programs and facilities; and many other essential city services.

B.	Over the past decade, the state has taken millions of dollars from local government
through various legislation, money that would otherwise be spent on essential City
services.

C.	Prior to 2008, budget cuts forced the City to spend less on street and sidewalk
maintenance, pothole repair, upgrades to our pier and replacement of 20-30 year old
storm drains than was necessary to adequately maintain this infrastructure in fully
functional working condition. As a result, many City streets were in poor condition and
inefficient storm drainage could have resulted in flooding.

D.	The City's revenue for such vital services comes from property tax, sales tax, hotel
tax, and other such revenues.

E.	In 2008, the voters of Pismo Beach approved a transactions and use tax in the
amount of one-half of one percent, the funds from which have been used entirely for the
improvement of City infrastructure, with none of the additional funds being used for
administrative or other soft costs. The City has used this money to pave streets,
improve drainage and other City infrastructure.

F.	The cost to continue to provide these vital services at current levels of service
exceeds the amount of funds and revenues generated from all other sources of income
available for such purpose. The extension of the transactions and use tax in the amount
of one-half of one percent, approved by the voters in 2008, is necessary to continue to
maintain the public good, welfare, and safety.

G.	Without the extension of the transactions and use tax, the City will have to either
generate additional revenue to continue to maintain existing City infrastructure, or begin
making cuts to other essential City services.

H.	A local finance measure gives Pismo Beach residents local control. Every
penny generated by the measure stays in Pismo Beach to be used for the needs and
services of our residents and the City.

I.	The extension of such a tax will allow the City to continue to provide a high level of
essential services to occupants of residential and commercial real property throughout
the City.

J.	All funds from a locally approved transactions and use tax could not be taken away
by the State and would stay in Pismo Beach to benefit local residents.

K.	A local measure will include a twelve (12) year sunset clause, after which the tax
will cease to be collected unless reauthorized by the voters.

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT OF CODE.

Pismo Beach Municipal Code Title 3 is hereby amended to add Chapter 3.22 to read
as follows:

CHAPTER 3.22. TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX.

3.22.010. TITLE.

This ordinance shall be known as the ‘Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance of the
City of Pismo Beach”. The City of Pismo Beach hereinafter shall be called "City." This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.22.020. PURPOSE.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt
this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting
the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

2

3.22.030. OPERATIVE DATE.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as
set forth below.

3.22.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.22.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of .5% of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in the City on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.22.060. PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of
the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.22.070. USE TAX RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative
date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate
of .5% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

3.22.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set
forth herein.

3.22.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

3

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name Pismo Beach shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against Pismo Beach or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

3.22.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.22.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use
tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

4

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county
in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside
the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under
a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to

the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City
or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.22.120. AMENDMENTS.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance.

6

3.22.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any
officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of
tax required to be collected.

3.22.140. SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT TO COUNCIL

The City Manager shall report to Council not less frequently than semi-annually on
the amount of tax collected under this ordinance, and any expenditures made, or
proposed to be made with such collections.

SECTION 3. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS.

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be accounted for and
paid into the City of Pismo Beach General Fund, and may be used for any lawful
purpose as designated by the City Council.

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 5. STATUTORY AUTHORITY FOR TAX.

This ordinance is adopted pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9.

SECTION 6. ELECTION REQUIRED.

This ordinance shall not become operative unless and until a majority of the electors
voting on this measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at the general municipal
election to be held on November 4, 2014.

SECTION 7. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION DATE.

If this ordinance is approved by a majority of the electors voting on the issue at the
November 4, 2014 general municipal election, pursuant to Elections Code Section
9217, the ordinance shall be become effective ten (10) days after the City Council
accepts the certified results of the election. Should this ordinance be approved by a
majority of electors at the November 4, 2014 election, it shall be repealed without further
action of the City Council or voters twelve (12) years after the Operative Date, after
which date the tax imposed by this ordinance shall not be collected.

INTRODUCED at a regular meeting of the City Council held this 17th day of June 2014,

on motion of Council Member______,	seconded	by	Council Member_______,	and

on the following roll call vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Council Members:
Council Members:
Council Members:
Council Members:

7

Approved:

Attest:

Shelly Higginbotham	Elaina Cano, CMC

Mayor	City Clerk

SECOND READING at a regular meeting of the City Council held this 15th day of July,
2014, on motion of Council Member , seconded by Council Member , and
on the following roll call vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Council Members:
Council Members:
Council Members:
Council Members:

Approved:

Attest:

Shelly Higginbotham
Mayor

Elaina Cano, CMC
City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

David M. Fleishman
City Attorney

8