CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U
CITY OF RIO DELL TEMPORARY SALES TAX

The City Council is submitting to the voters the question of whether to approve an
ordinance enacting a temporary sales tax within the City of Rio Dell to fund City
services and facilities, such as improving police protection, repairing streets and
potholes, and improving other general City services and facilities. The tax rate
would be one percent (1.0%) of the retail sales price-or one cent for an item that
costs one dollar. The tax would remain in effect for five years.

A “sales tax" is a combination of “sales and use tax” and “transactions and use
tax." Both are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail,
with certain limited exceptions. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and
remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization which administers the tax.

Currently, the tax on retail sales in Rio Dell is seven and one-half percent (7.50%)
of the purchase price. This measure would authorize a 1.0% transactions and use
(sales) tax, which would increase the total sales tax rate to 8.50%. The tax would
automatically terminate five years after it becomes operative, unless extended by
the voters.

The tax proceeds would be deposited into the City's general fund and be available
to support the full range of municipal services. 8ecause this measure does not
legally restrict the use of tax revenue to any specific purposes, it is classified
as a “general tax,” not a “special tax.” The tax proceeds may be used for any
valid municipal governmental purpose and cannot legally be taken away by the
State. The tax proceeds would be subject to the same independent annual audit
requirements as other general fund revenue. The audit report would be a matter
of public record.

A “Yes” vote is a vote in favor of the tax. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax. This
measure would be approved if it receives a simple majority of “Yes” votes.

/s/Russell S.Gans

City Attorney for the City of Rio Dell

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “U”. If you
desire a copy of the Measure, please call the City Clerk’s office at
(707) 764-3532 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. The
Measure is also available at the Rio Dell City Clerk’s Office or by
visiting www.riodellcity.com.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U
CITY OF RIO DELL TEMPORARY SALES TAX

VOTE YES on Measure “U" to protect what we all want in Rio Dell: safe
neighborhoods, responsive law enforcement, decent roads, economic prosperity,
public transportation, improved property values and a VIBRANT future for our city.
This is the goal of Measure “U".

The City of Rio Dell has struggled to maintain essential community services.
Traditional revenues have remained flat while costs have increased steadily. Over
the last 4 years city staff has been reduced by 30%, including 3 Police officers
and 3 Public Works Utility Workers who maintain streets and grounds and the
water and sewer piping systems. Even after these cuts, the General Fund Reserve
was drawn down $144,000 in 2014-15 to maintain baseline community services.
Measure “U” cannot solve all of the problems, but we can restore to a limited
degree the priority services that have been lost by authorizing a temporary 1%
local sales tax.

All Measure “U” funds (100%) will stay locally controlled in Rio Dell for Rio Dell.
By law, the State CANNOT take this funding away.

A YES vote on Measure “U" also applies to non-residents and visitors who will
pay their fair share for transactions within the city. Basic necessities like groceries
and prescriptions WONT be taxed.

Measure "U” is a smart investment, lasting only 5 years. It cannot be extended
without a new vote.

A YES vote on Measure “U” will help the city to focus over next five years on
economic development. Let's spend the next five years working to improve Rio
Dell rather than the next 5 years watching city services diminish. This is our
opportunity to capture the momentum from recent positive developments in the
city.

Please join this broad community effort to keep our community moving forward.
PLEASE VOTE YES on “U".

/s/ Jack Thompson, Mayor, City of Rio Del I

BT7

BT7

City of

675 Wihhvood A venue
Rio Dell, Ca 95562

California

July 7,2014

Kathy Hayes
Clerk of the Board
County of Humboldt
825 5tfi St.

Eureka, CA 95501

This letter is to request the Humboldt County Board of Supervisors authorize the County
of Humboldt Elections Department to include Rio Dell in the November 4, 2014 General
Election for the City Council election and a Local Sales and Use Tax revenue measure.

At the regular City Council meeting held on July 1,2014, the City Council approved
Ordinance No. 326-2014 imposing a transactions and use tax and Resolutions 1231-2014
and 1232-2014 requesting the County of Humboldt Elections Department to include Rio
Dell in the November 4, 2014 General Election. I have enclosed certified copies of the
ordinance and resolutions as requested.

If any further information is needed I may be contacted at 764-3532.

Karen Dunham, CMC
City Clerk, City of Rio Dell

RESOLUTION NO. 1231-2014

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF RIO DELL REQUESTING THE COUNTY
OF HUMBOLDT ELECTIONS DEPARTMENT
TO INCLUDE RIO DELL IN THE 2014
GENERAL ELECTION

WHEREAS, a general election is set for the City of Rio Del! on November 4.
2014:and

WHEREAS, the Elections Code of the State of California provides that the local
governing body may request election services of the Count) Clerk concerning the
conduct of general elections; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Rio Dell is desirous of having the
County of Humboldt Elections Department provide certain services for the conduct of the
general election to include the Rio Dell City Council election to be held on November 4.
2014.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF RIO DELL. CALIFORNIA that the C ity of Rio Dell hereby requests the
Humboldt County Board of Supervisors to authorize the County of Humboldt Elections
Department to conduct the general election to include the City Council election for the
City of Rio Dell on November 4. 2014. including the publishing of all election materials,
the mailing of sample ballots, the hiring of election officers, the actual conduct of the
election, and the counting of ballots with the tally turned into the City Clerk of the City of
Rio Dell for announcement of the results of the election.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 1st day of July. 2014 by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Thompson. Johnson. Marks. Wilson and Woodall

None

None

None

’Jk

Thompson. Mayor

ATTEST:

I.	Karen Dunham. City Clerk lor the City of Rio Dell. State of California, hereby certify
the above and foregoing to be a full, true and correct copy of Resolution No. 1231-2014
adopted by the City Council of the City of Rio Dell on July 1.2014.

Kaobn Dunham. CfylC
Citv Clerk. Citv of Rio Dell



RESOLUTION 1232-2014

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF RIO DELL ESTABLISHING NOVEMBER
4, 2014 AS THE DATE FOR AN ELECTION ON A PROPOSED BALLOT
MEASURE SEEKING VOTER APPROVAL RELATING TO THE ENACTMENT
OF A ONE PERCENT (1.0%) TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX FOR
FIVE YEARS AND REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF
HUMBOLDT COUNTY TO CONSOLIDATE SAID ELECTION WITH THE
STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION

WHEREAS, a locally-enacted revenue measure would protect and maintain
Rio Dell’s services because the money is legally required to stay in the City’s community
and cannot be taken by the State, thereby providing locally controlled funds for local
services; and

WHEREAS, at its July 1, 2014 meeting the City Council recognized the need for
additional revenue to maintain and preserve the level of services desired by residents of
the City; and

WHEREAS, at that meeting the City Council concluded that all of the information
presented indicated that, to obtain the revenue necessary to maintain and preserve service
levels, the Council should call an election to ask the voters of the City to approve a 5 year
local transactions and use (sales) tax, the revenue from which could be used to support
general municipal services; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council determined that it was
appropriate to submit a ballot measure regarding a general transactions and use (sales) tax
to the voters of the City of Rio Dell for their approval and adoption at the general election
to be held in the City on November 4, 2014; and

WHEREAS, the tax to be submitted to the voters, if approved, would be imposed
on the sale of tangible personal property and the storage, use, or other consumption of
such property. The tax rate would be one percent (1.0%)—one cent for each dollar of the
sales price of the personal property. The tax revenue would be collected by the State
Board of Equalization and remitted to the City. The tax would be in effect for 5 years,
and would then expire automatically, unless extended by the voters. The tax shall be
approved if the measure receives at least a simple majority of affirmative votes; and

WHEREAS, the Rio Dell City Council is authorized by California Elections Code
Section 9222 to place measures before the voters; and

WHEREAS; Elections Code Sections 9281 through 9287 set forth the procedures
for arguments in favor of and in opposition to any City ballot measure; and

WHEREAS, November 4, 2014 is the date of the Statewide General Election and
it is desirable that the election on the City’s ballot measure be consolidated with the
Statewide General Election to be held on the same date; that within the City, the
precincts, polling places, and election officers of the two elections be the same; and that
the Humboldt County Department of Elections and Voter Registration canvass the returns
of the consolidated election and that the election be held in all respects as if there were
only one election; and

WHEREAS; based on all of the information presented at the July 1, 2014 meeting,
both written and oral, including the staff reports, minutes, and other relevant materials,
the City Council finds that under CEQA Guidelines 15060(c)(2) and 15378, subdivisions
(2) and (4) of subdivision (b), this tax does not constitute a project under CEQA and
therefore review under CEQA is not required.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Rio

Dell:

1.	Recitals, The foregoing recitals are true and correct and are hereby incorporated
by reference.

2.	Call Election; Placement of Measure on the Ballot. Pursuant to California
Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2; Government Code Section 53724; and Elections
Code Section 9222, the City Council of the City of Rio Dell hereby calls an election at
which it shall submit to the qualified voters of the City, a measure that, if approved,
would adopt a temporary general transactions and use (sales) tax, as authorized by
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9. This measure shall be designated by letter
by the Humboldt County Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to Election Code Section 10400 et
seq., the election for this measure shall be consolidated with the established election to be
conducted on November 4, 2014.

3.	Ballot Language. The question to be presented to the voters is as follows:

Shall the City of Rio Dell increase the sales tax by 1%, for
five years only, providing locally controlled funding that
cannot be taken by the State?______________________________

YES	
NO	

4.	Proposed Ordinance. The ordinance authorizing the general tax to be approved
by the voters pursuant to Sections 2 and 3 of the Resolution is as set forth in Attachment

1.	The City Council hereby approves the ordinance, and form thereof, and its submission
to the voters of the City at the November 4, 2014 election, as required by Revenue and

Taxation Code Section 7285.9, subject to the approval of a ma jority of the voters voting
on ihe measure at the election called by the adoption of this resolution. The entire text of
the ordinance, attached hereto as Attachment 1, shall be included in the voters pamphlet.
The ordinance specifies that the rate of the transactions tax shall be one percent (1.0%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in the City; it specifies that the rate of the use tax shall be one percent (1.0%) of the
sales price of tangible personal property stored, used or otherwise consumed in the City,
and that the tax shall be in effect for five years. The State Board of Equalization shall
collect the tax from retailers subject to the tax and remit the funds to the City.

5.	Publication of Measure. The City Clerk is hereby directed to cause notice of the
measure to be published once in the official newspaper of the city of Rio Dell, in
accordance with Section 12111 of the Elections Code and Section 6061 of the
Government Code.

6.	Request to Consolidate and Conduct Election and Canvass Returns.

(a)	Pursuant to the requirement of Section 10403 of the Elections Code, the Board
of Supervisors of the County of Humboldt is hereby requested to consent and
agree to the consolidation of a General Municipal Election with the Statewide
General Election on Tuesday, November 4, 2014, for the purpose of placing
the measure set forth in Sections 3 and 4 on the ballot.

(b)	The County of Humboldt Registrar of Voters is authorized to canvass the
returns of the municipal election. The election shall be held in all respects as if
there were only one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

(c)	The Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the Humboldt
County registrar of voters take any and all steps necessary for the holding of
the consolidated election.

(d)	The City of Rio Dell recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the
County of Humboldt by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse
the County for any costs.

7.	Submission of Ballot Argument and Impartial Analysis.

(a)	The submission of ballot arguments for or against the measure shall be
conducted pursuant to Election Code sections 9281 through 9287.

(b)	The last day for submission of direct arguments for or against the measure
shall be by 5:00pm, August 12, 2014.

(c)	Direct arguments shall not exceed three hundred (300) words and shall be
signed by not more than five persons.

(d)	The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure by
5:00pm, August 11, 2014.

8.	Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
adoption and the City Clerk is directed to send certified copies of the Resolution to the
Humboldt County Board of Supervisors and the Humboldt County Registrar of Voters.

9.	CEQA. The approval of this resolution is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., "CEQA,’' and 14
Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). The transactions and use (sales)
tax to be submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be used for any legitimate
governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular action. As such, under
CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the meaning of
CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not involve any
commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that would
have such effect, the City would undertake the required CEQA review for that particular
project. Therefore, under CEQA Guidelines section 15060, review under CEQA is not
required.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Rio Dell. State of
California, on July 1, 2014, by the following vote:

AYES:	Mayor Thompson, Johnson, Marks, Wilson and	Woodall

NOES:	None

ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

I,	Karen Dunham, City Clerk for the City of Rio Dell, State of California, hereby certify
the above and foregoing to be a full, true and correct copy of Resolution No. 1232-2014
adopted by the City Council of the City of Rio Dell on July 1, 2014.

ATTEST:

City Clerk, City of Rio Dell

ORDINANCE NO. 326-2014

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF RIO DELL
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, a locally-enacted revenue measure would protect and maintain Rio Dell services
because the money is legally required to stay in our community and cannot be taken by the State,
providing locally controlled funds for local services; and

WHEREAS, at its July 1. 2014 meeting, the City Council considered calling an election to
seek voter approval of a proposed general transactions and use (sales) tax, as authorized by
Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9; and

WHEREAS, at that meeting, the City Council concluded that all of the information presented
indicated that, to obtain the revenue necessary to maintain and preserve service levels, the City
Council should call an election to ask the voters of the City to approve a 5 year local transactions
and use (sales) tax, the revenue from which could be used to support general municipal services;
and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council determined that it was
appropriate to place a measure regarding a general transactions and use (sales) tax before the
voters at the November 4. 2014 general election: and

WHEREAS, the tax, if approved, would be imposed on the sale of tangible personal property
and the storage, use. or other consumption of such property. The tax rate would be one percent
(1%) (one cent for each dollar) of the sales price of the personal property. The tax revenue would
be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City. The tax would be in
effect for 5 years, and would then expire automatically, unless extended by the voters. The lax
shall be approved if the measure receives at least a simple majority of affirmative votes.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RIO DELL ORDAINS AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. AMENDMENT OF CODE. The Rio Dell Municipal Code is hereby amended to
add a new Chapter 3.11. and shall read as follows:

CHAPTER3.il
LOCAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX

Section 3.11.01. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Rio Dell
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Rio Deli hereinafter shall be called "City."
This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

s*

Section 3.11. 02. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of
such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3.11.03. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a simple majority (50% plus 1) of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself' as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 3.11.04. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 3.11.05. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a lax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory
of the City at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 3.11.06. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to

which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3.11.07. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of 1% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

Section 3.11.08. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.11.09. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION
OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller. State
Treasurer. State Board of Control. State Board of Equalization. State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California:

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be
to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701. 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof). 6711, 6715.
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

Section 3.11.10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not
be required by this ordinance.

Section 3.11.11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1. Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, slating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
lax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of. or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for w hich the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of. or exercise of any right or pow'er over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7). a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to. soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5

(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.11.12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 3.11.13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 3.11.14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 3.11.15. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Section 3.11.16. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
ordinance shall expire on the fifth anniversary of the last day of the calendar quarter following
the "operative date".

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Rio Dell, State of California,
on July I, 2014, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Thompson. Johnson, Marks, Wilson and Woodall

None

None

None

ATTEST:

I,	Karen Dunham. City Clerk for the City of Rio Dell. State of California, hereby certify
the above and foregoing to be a full, true and correct copy of Ordinance 326-2014
adopted by the City Council of the City of Rio Dell on July 1.2014.

/ULjLl.

unhcjiid

Karen DunhamvCMC

City Clerk. City of Rio Dell