Measure Q

Protect, preserve, and expand public access to open space
Santa Clara County Open Space Authority

2/3 Approval Required

To protect and preserve natural open space areas for future generations
improving parks, open spaces and trails; protecting land around creeks, rivers and
streams to prevent pollution and improve local water quality; preserving wildlife
habitat; expanding public access; enhancing environmental education; and
protecting scenic hillsides, shall Santa Clara County Open Space Authority levy a
special tax of $24 annually per parcel for 15 years, with citizen oversight and all
funds benefitting local open space?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes"vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $24.00 per parcel on parcels
within the District for 15 years.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve a parcel tax of $24.00 per parcel on parcels
within the District for 15 years.

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
Upon approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters in an election,
California law permits the Santa Clara County Open Space Authority to enact a
special tax, pursuant to Public Resources Code section 35172 and Government
Code sections 50075, et seq. and 53724.

The Governing Board (Board) for Santa Clara County Open Space Authority (District)
proposes Measure Q, a parcel tax to be levied at $24 per parcel per year for a period of
15 years. If approved, the parcel tax will commence on July 1, 2015 and expire on June
30,2030. The parcel tax shall not levied on any property that is legally exempt from
paying ad valorem property taxes in any tax year.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which the tax proceeds
will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for these purposes. The stated
purposes of the tax proposed by Measure Q are to: (1) protect open space, redwood
forests, wildlife habitat, scenic hillsides and agricultural land; (2) protect land around
creeks, rivers and streams to prevent pollution and improve local water quality; (3)
open, improve and maintain parks, open space and trails; and (4) provide urban open
space, parks and environmental educational programs.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability measures for the
proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing the proceeds into a fund that is
separate and apart from other District funds; and (2) providing an annual written
report to the Board detailing the amount of funds collected and expended and the status
of any project authorized to be funded from the tax proceeds. The Board will establish
an independent advisory committee of citizens to review the expenditures authorized
by Measure Q.

Measure Q was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $24.00 per parcel on parcels within the
District for 15 years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve a parcel tax of $24.00 per parcel on parcels within
the District for 15 years.

Orry P. Korb
County Counsel

By: /s/ Susan Swain
Lead Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure Q

We are fortunate to enjoy beautiful open vistas, parks, trails and unique
natural areas right here in Santa Clara Valley.

From urban parks to scenic hillsides, the open spaces we preserve are a legacy for our
children and grandchildren. They ensure protected natural areas and access to local
trails.

Vote Yes on Q to preserve open space for current and future generations, so local
residents can experience nature here in Silicon Valley.

Measure Q will:

•	Preserve scenic hillsides, open space, wildlife habitat, redwood forests,
agricultural land and urban open space

•	Increase public access to open space, maintain local parks and trails, and expand
trail connections among local and regional parks

•	Protect lands around creeks, streams and rivers to prevent toxins and pollution
from getting into our drinking water

•	Provide outdoor environmental education opportunities for children and adults

All Measure Q funds will preserve open space in San Jose, Milpitas, Santa
Clara, Campbell, Morgan Hill and unincorporated Santa Clara County--the
state cannot take away a single penny. Independent citizen oversight and
annual audits will ensure funds are spent as promised. Measure Q expires in
15 years.

As our region continues to grow, protecting scenic hillsides, open spaces, and creeks
and streams is increasingly important to maintain our high quality of life in Santa Clara
County.

Business and community leaders agree that open space makes Santa Clara County a
wonderful place to work and live. Parents and educators agree that access to open space
is essential for hands on science education and places for kids to explore nature.

Please join us: Vote Yes on Q to protect the natural areas that make Silicon Valley a
beautiful place to live, now and in the future.

For more information about Measure Q supporters and a map of priority open space
preservation projects, visit http://YesforSCVopenspace.org.

/s/ Zoe Lofgren
Congresswoman

/s/Rod Diridon, Sr.

President, Santa Clara County League of Conservation Voters
/s/Gloria Chun Hoo

President of the Leagues of Women Voters of Santa Clara County

/s/ Steve Tate
Mayor of Morgan Hill

/s/Carl Guardino

President and CEO of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group

Rebuttal to Arguments For

Open Space Authority (OSA) says we are fortunate to be able to enjoy beautiful parks,
trails, and open vistas, here in Santa Clara Valley. But the reason for that is the truly
excellent park system, put in place by agencies like the county Parks and Recreation
Department, on over 45,000 acres comprising 28 parks. Almost no OSA land is open to
the public for any use.

OSA is redundant. It claims to preserve wildlife habitat; however, we now have Santa
Clara Valley Habitat Agency to comprehensively perform that function. Due to its
extensive, countywide studies of species' habitats, it will acquire land in a sensible
manner; not by OSA's checkerboard approach.

As to protecting land around creeks and streams to keep out toxins: Santa Clara County
and Santa Clara Valley Water District are front and center in this effort, alongside the
Regional Water Quality Control Board. They have permitting processes, policing
resources, and expertise to do the job in a first-class manner.

As to preserving agricultural land: county, state, and regional resources are fully in
place to protect this vital economic activity. OSA is unnecessary.

Does OSA protect redwood forests? Give us a break! What are they going to do-shoo
away red-headed woodpeckers?

OSA is a bit plaver in fields well handled bv specialized agencies already in place. We
already pay for these protections through our state and local taxes. Don't authorize
more taxation, to reward a redundant agency of amateur status.

VOTE "NO" ON MEASURE Q.

Please visit:

http://www.SVTaxpayers.org/2014-ll-scc-open-space-authoritv-parcel-tax
/s/Omar Chatty

Vice President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/ Edward Leo Wimmers

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

/s/ Elizabeth C. Brierly
District Homeowner/Resident

/s/ Steven B. Haug
District Homeowner/Resident

Arguments Against Measure Q

If you thought the Open Space Authority (OSA) was protecting your "view shed"—think
again.

Much of its property in the Diablo Range is east of the western ridgeline. Of the vast
areas that OSA has in the Santa Cruz hills, only small areas are visible from the valley
floor. The large parcels here are not only out of sight, but out of reach—to all but the
most avid hikers.

What's going on? A new dynastic bureaucratic-elite is now enjoying its vast spread of
land. The land for the most part is so steep that only a small fraction of our citizens can
ever enjoy it. OSA calls the trail up to Sierra Vista "bracing".

The OSA is already taxing typical homeowners $12 a year, and for 2014- 2015 will raise
$4,216,965.

OSA's Engineer's Report shows an "ESTIMATE OF COSTS" for the year. Only $80,000 is
earmarked for land acquisition. But $4,228,254 is for "General Operating Expenses" of
which $1.9M is for payroll and another $0.82M for benefits. The OSA staff is very well
paid.

Now they want to get an ADDITIONAL $24 per year from us. If they do, how long do you
think it will take for the "General Operating Expenses" to double and then triple to keep
this bloated bureaucracy in place?

Six years ago, the California Supreme Court unanimously held that OSA's $20
"assessment" was unlawful: OSA Illegally took over $50M from us. But OSA ended
up keeping over $30M, which has allowed its annual expenditures since then to exceed
income; and now they are using a big slice of these ILL-GOTTEN GAINS to run an
expensive "EDUCATIONAL" effort to get your favorable vote on this measure.

Tell OSA "NO"! Vote "No" on Measure Q.

Please visit our website: http://www.SVTaxpayers.org/2014-ll-scc-open-space-tax
/s/Omar Chatty

Vice President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/ Edward Leo Wimmers

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

/s/ Elizabeth C. Brierly
District homeower/resident

/s/ Steven B. Haug

Treasurer Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

Rebuttal to Arguments Against

Whether we live in San Jose, Morgan Hill, Santa Clara, Milpitas or unincorporated Santa
Clara County, we enjoy the benefits of open space. That's why Santa Clara County
leaders are voting Yes on Q.

A plan to preserve and expand open space, wildlife habitat and recreational
opportunities in Santa Clara County, Measure Q is the result of years of public input. It's
our community's plan to protect our natural heritage and quality of life.

Measure Q protects nature for future generations as Silicon Valley grows.

On a very lean budget, OSA preserved 16,000 acres of open space in the last 20 years. To
continue safeguarding open space in California's fastest growing region, we need
Measure Q. It will preserve our last remaining open spaces, keeping them open to the
public into the future.

Measure Q means more access to nature.

Urban and suburban creek trails and beautiful open space preserves, like Ulistac, Three
Creeks and Sierra Vista, are accessible to all 365 days per year. Measure Q will double
the publicly available open space and trails available.

Open Space protects clean water sources.

By preserving open space, we protect creeks and streams, keeping pollution and toxins
from getting into our drinking water.

Measure Q funds stay local and cannot be taken by the state.

Citizen Oversight and annual audits ensure all funds support open space protection for
specific projects as outlined in your ballot book.

Open space that surrounds our communities makes Santa Clara County a desirable
place to live, work and raise a family. Join us-vote Yes on Q.

/s/Cindy Chavez

Santa Clara County Supervisor, District 2
/s/ Lan Nguyen

Board Member, East Side Union High School District

/s/ Laurie Smith
Santa Clara County Sheriff

/s/ Evan Low

Councilmember, City of Campbell
/s/ Jim Cunneen

Former President, San Jose Silicon Valley Chamber of Commerce and Former
Republican Assemblymember

MEASURE Q

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE Q

Upon approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters in an election,
California law permits the Santa Clara County Open Space Authority to
enact a special tax, pursuant to Public Resources Code section 35172
and Government Code sections 50075, et seq. and 53724.

The Governing Board (Board) for Santa Clara County Open Space
Authority (District) proposes Measure Q, a parcel tax to be levied at $24
per parcel per year for a period of 15 years. If approved, the parcel tax
will commence on July 1,2015 and expire on June 30,2030. The parcel
tax shall not levied on any property that is legally exempt from paying ad
valorem property taxes in any tax year.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which the
tax proceeds will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for
these purposes. The stated purposes of the tax proposed by Measure Q
are to: (1) protect open space, redwood forests, wildlife habitat, scenic
hillsides and agricultural land; (2) protect land around creeks, rivers and
streams to prevent pollution and improve local water quality; (3) open,
improve and maintain parks, open space and trails; and (4) provide urban
open space, parks and environmental educational programs.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability
measures for the proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing the
proceeds into a fund that is separate and apart from other District funds;
and (2) providing an annual written report to the Board detailing the
amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project
authorized to be funded from the tax proceeds. The Board will establish
an independent advisory committee of citizens to review the expenditures
authorized by Measure Q.

Measure Q was placed on the ballot by the Board.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $24.00 per parcel on
parcels within the District for 15 years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not approve a parcel tax of $24.00 per parcel on
parcels within the District for 15 years.

Orry P. Korb
County Counsel

By: Isl Susan Swain

Lead Deputy County Counsel

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Q
Santa Clara County Open Space Authority

RESOLUTION 14-32

A RESOLUTION OF THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
SANTA CLARA COUNTY OPEN SPACE AUTHORITY
PROPOSING THE ADOPTION BY THE VOTERS OF THE

OPEN SPACE, WILDLIFE HABITAT, CLEAN WATER, AND

INCREASED PUBLIC ACCESS MEASURE, WHICH WOULD
IMPOSE A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX AND ESTABLISH AN

ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT, TO BE SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS AT THE NOVEMBER 4,2014, ELECTION

WHEREAS, the Legislature established the Santa Clara County
Open Space Authority ("OSA") to preserve key portions of the natural
environment in Santa Clara County in order to balance continuing urban
growth; and,

WHEREAS, since its creation, the OSA has protected over 16,000
acres of open space, natural areas, creeks and streams, and wildlife
habitat to preserve the natural beauty and health of Santa Clara County;
and,

WHEREAS, the OSA's work protecting threatened land is a key
element in maintaining our region's quality of life; and

WHEREAS, the OSA's jurisdiction includes the cities of Milpitas,
Santa Clara, San Jose, Campbell, and Morgan Hill and most
unincorporated areas of the County; and

WHEREAS, despite its achievements, the OSA faces significant
challenges in continuing to protect and preserve natural areas within its
jurisdiction; and

WHEREAS, our region has continued to grow, thereby creating
additional pressures on our natural areas, wildlife habitat, creeks and
streams; and

WHEREAS, by acting to protect open space, we preserve clean
water, clean air, public health, and public safety for current and future
generations; and

WHEREAS, the OSA's current funding is insufficient to address
these growing pressures on open space lands and to continue to protect
the natural areas within the OSA's jurisdiction from fire, pollution, and
other threats; and,

WHEREAS, State law (Public Resources Code Section 35172;
Government Code Sections 50077 and 53724; Elections Code Section
9342) authorizes the OSA to impose, subject to voter approval, a special
tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that:

1. Submission of Measure to Voters. The OSA Governing
Board ("Board") hereby approves, and proposes to submit for adoption
by the voters at the November 4,2014 election, The Open Space, Wildlife
Habitat, Clean Water, and Increased Public Access Measure as set forth
herein ("Measure").

N SC Ballot Type 001 - Page 22

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Q-Continued

2.	Specific Purposes of the Tax Proposed by the Measure.

The Measure, if approved by the voters, would impose a special parcel
tax ('Tax") for the specific purposes of: (1) protecting open space,
redwood forests, wildlife habitat, scenic hillsides and agricultural land; (2)
protecting land around creeks, rivers and streams to prevent pollution and
improve local water quality and supply; (3) opening, improving and
maintaining parks, open space, and trails; and (4) providing urban open
space, parks and environmental education programs, as more fully
described in the Expenditure Plan attached hereto as Exhibit A and
incorporated herein by this reference.

3.	Voter Approval Required. The Tax is proposed pursuant to
Public Resources Code Section 35172, Government Code Sections
50077 and 53724, and Elections Code Section 9342. The Tax shall not
be imposed or levied unless it is approved by a two-thirds vote of the
voters voting on it.

4.	Amount and Duration of Tax. The Tax shall be a flat parcel
tax, levied at a rate of $24 per parcel, and shall apply uniformly to all
parcels of real property within the OSA's jurisdiction, except as provided
in Section 7, below. The Tax shall be levied annually fora period of fifteen
(15) years, commencing effective July 1,2015, and ending June 30,2030.

5.	Special Account. All revenue generated by the Tax shall be
deposited into a special account created for the purposes of holding these
revenues. These revenues shall be used only for the specific purposes
set forth in Section 2 of this Resolution, as more fully described in the
Expenditure Plan.

6.	Appropriations Limit. Pursuant to Article XIIIB of the
California Constitution, the voters of the OSA hereby establish the annual
appropriations limit for the OSA as the maximum aggregate amount
projected to be collected pursuant to the Tax imposed by this Resolution.
If approved by the voters, this appropriations limit may thereafter be
adjusted as authorized by Article XIIIB of the California Constitution.

7.	Collection of Tax. Although it is not an ad valorem tax, the
Tax shall be billed by the County of Santa Clara on the secured roll tax
bills for ad valorem property taxes and shall be due to the OSA. The Tax,
including any penalties or interest for failure to timely pay the Tax, shall
be imposed and collected in the same manner in which the County
collects secured roll ad valorem property taxes. The reasonable costs
incurred by the County officers collecting and administering this Tax shall
be deducted from the collected Tax. All property that is otherwise exempt
from ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the
Tax in such year. The Tax shall not be levied on any property that is
legally exempt from paying it. The OSA shall adopt procedures that set
forth any clarifications and exemptions as required by law for claimants
seeking an exemption or refund of the Tax.

8.	Severability. If any portion of this Resolution or any portion of
any parcel tax levied under it is for any reason held to be invalid, that shall
not affect the validity of the remainder of the Resolution or the remainder
of any parcel tax levied under it. The voters within the OSA's geographic
jurisdiction hereby declare that they would have adopted the remainder
of this Resolution regardless of the invalidity of any portion of the
Resolution or any tax levied thereunder.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Q-Continued

9.	Annual Report. On or before January 1 of each fiscal year,
the OSA's chief fiscal officer shall file an annual report with the Board that
explains (1) the amount of funds collected and expended under this
Measure and (2) the status of the projects authorized to be funded by this
revenue. (Government Code Sections 50075.1(d), 50075.3.)

10.	Independent Oversight Committee. No later than June 30,
2015, or the first collection of revenue pursuant to the Measure,
whichever is later, an Independent Oversight Committee shall be
convened to review the expenditures of all parcel tax revenues collected
under this Measure. The Board shall establish by resolution the terms,
composition, and specific duties of the Oversight Committee, consistent
with the "Citizen Oversight and Independent Financial Audits" provisions
set forth in Part C(1) of the Expenditure Plan.

11.	Administration. The Board may, by resolution, adopt
guidelines for administrative matters related to the interpretation and
enforcement of this Resolution. Such guidelines may not increase the
amount, or extend the duration, of this Tax.

12.	CEQA Findings. The Board finds that adoption of this
Resolution does not constitute a project under the California
Environmental Quality Act (see CEQA Guidelines Sections 15060(c)(2)-
(3) and 15378(b)(4)), and therefore review under CEQA is not required.
The approval of this Resolution does not commit the OSA to funding or
approving any specific project or activity listed in the Expenditure Plan.
Prior to approving any specific project or activity pursuant to the
Expenditure Plan, any necessary environmental review required by
CEQA shall be completed.

13.	Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect immediately
upon its confirmation and enactment by two-thirds of the voters voting in
the OSA's geographic jurisdiction in the election to be held November 4,
2014 so that the tax may be collected as set forth in Section 4 of this
Resolution.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 24 day of July 2014,
by the following vote:

AYES: Alex Kennett, David M. Flaugher, Sequoia Hall, Mike Potter,

Dorsey Moore, Virginia Holtz, Kalvin Gill

NOES: None

ABSENT: None

ABSTENTION: None

Isl Mike Potter
Chairperson, Santa Clara County Open Space Authority

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Isl William P. Parkin
Legal Counsel

ATTEST:

Isl Lauren Monack
Clerk of the Board

N SC Ballot Type 001 - Page 23

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Q-Continued
Exhibit A

The Open Space, Wildlife Habitat, Clean Water and Increased
Public Access Expenditure Plan

A.	Summary

Since its creation in 1993, the Santa Clara County Open Space Authority
("OSA") has protected over 16,000 of acres of open space and natural
areas, preserving the natural beauty and health of our area, and
protecting our region's water resources, air quality, wildlife and scenic
views for residents today and future generations. Governed by a publicly
elected board of directors, OSA has used funds wisely, bringing in state,
federal, and private grant money, and providing annual audits in a
transparent public process.

However, the Santa Clara County Open Space Authority currently faces
significant challenges. As our region continues to grow, protecting
hillsides and open spaces are increasingly important to our community.
If adopted by voters, the Open Space, Wildlife Habitat, Clean Water, and
Increased Public Access Measure ("Measure") would allow OSA to
protect and preserve natural open space areas for future generations by:
improving parks, open spaces and trails; protecting land around creeks,
rivers and streams to prevent pollution and improve local water quality;
preserving wildlife habitat; expanding public access; enhancing
environmental education; and protecting scenic hillsides.

The Santa Clara County Open Space Authority will ensure that the
revenue generated is spent in the most efficient and effective manner
possible, consistent with serving the public interest and in accordance
with existing law. The Authority shall use the funding only for the
purposes set forth in this Expenditure Plan ("Plan") and it shall give
priority to projects in this Plan.

The high priority potential projects listed in the Plan are the result of a
broad public engagement process to create a shared vision for the future
of the region's open space. This vision plan developed by the Santa
Clara County Open Space Authority, called the Santa Clara Valley
Greenprint, identifies high priority open space and natural resource lands
as identified in this Plan. If approved, the proceeds from the parcel tax
would be allocated to fund high priority projects distributed throughout the
Santa Clara County Open Space Authority's jurisdiction such as those
listed below.

The Authority may annually review and propose amendments to the Plan
to provide for the use of additional federal, state and local funds, to
account for unexpected revenues, or to take into consideration
unforeseen circumstances, provided, however, that all funds collected
pursuant to the Measure shall be used solely for the purposes of this Plan
as presented to the voters.

B.	Program Descriptions

1.	Protect Open Space, Redwood Forests, Wildlife Habitat,
Scenic Hillsides and Agricultural Land

The purpose of this program is to permanently protect new open space
lands essential to completing connections in the region's park, open
space and habitat systems as identified in the Authority's Santa Clara
Valley Greenprint, the County Parks Acquisition Plan, Santa Clara Valley
Habitat Plan, and other adopted plans.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Q-Continued

a.	Ensure permanent protection of essential open space,
water resources and wildlife habitat. Areas for open space
protection can include but are not limited to Baylands,
East San Jose Foothills, Upper Alameda Creek
Watershed, Coyote Ridge, Coyote Valley, Upper Coyote
Creek Watershed, Southern Santa Cruz Mountains,
Sargent Hills, Upper Pajaro River Watershed, Pacheco
Creek Watershed. Protect, restore and enhance critical
habitat to implement the Valley Habitat Plan such as
serpentine grasslands, wetlands, redwood forests and
riparian areas along creeks, rivers and streams.

b.	Leverage public and private funding and coordinate
protection efforts to complete critical open space
preservation

c.	Conserve the region's last remaining farmland and
rangelands in and around areas such as the Coyote Valley,
Morgan Hill, Gilroy and Pajaro River to protect local food
and maintain environmental benefits provided by
agricultural lands including water supply, groundwater
recharge, flood risk reduction, and habitat protection.

d.	Conserve high priority farmland and rangelands through
voluntary agreements with willing landowners.

e.	Provide grants to resource conservation districts ("RCDs")
and other agricultural organizations to work with farmers
and ranchers to promote natural resource stewardship.

2.	Protect Land around Creeks, Rivers and Streams to

Prevent Pollution and Improve Local Water Quality and

Supply

The purpose of this program is to protect and restore natural areas that
buffer our rivers, lakes and streams, including the Guadalupe River,
Coyote Creek, Fisher Creek, Penitencia Creek, Upper Alameda Creek,
Uvas Creek, Llagas Creek, Pacheco Creek, Pescadero Creek and the
Pajaro River to protect water supply and water quality.

a.	Protect clean, safe drinking water supplies by restoring
and enhancing natural areas around local creeks, rivers
and streams from their headwaters in the hills to the Bay.

b.	Preserve key open space areas to enhance local water
supply and recharge groundwater.

c.	Protect water resources, floodplains, wetlands and
riparian corridors.

3.	Open, Improve and Maintain Parks, Open Space, and Trails

The purpose of this program is to maintain existing Open Space
Preserves, safeguard the health of natural areas and wildlife habitat;
reduce the risk of wildfires; provide more walking, hiking, biking and
equestrian trails and increase opportunities for environmental education
experiences.

a.	Open and expand Preserves on existing lands, including
more trails for walking, hiking, biking and equestrian uses
and more access points for residents; develop science-
based environmental education programs and facilities,
trails, and other public access facilities in appropriate

N SC Ballot Type 001 - Page 24

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Q-Continued

locations including East San Jose/Penitencia
Creek/Milpitas Foothills, Coyote Ridge, Coyote Valley,
Morgan Hill El Toro Peak, Almaden Valley/Santa Teresa
Hills.

b.	Construct new trails and close gaps in regional hiking,
bicycle and equestrian trails (such as the Bay Area Ridge
Trail, San Francisco Bay Trail, Coyote Creek Trail and
Guadalupe River).

c.	Reduce the risk of wildfire near communities; protect air
and water quality and control invasive, non-native weeds
through vegetation management in coordination with fire
districts, cities and the County.

d.	Provide safe, well-maintained Open Space Preserves and
recreational trails, including the Bay Area Ridge Trail, San
Francisco Bay Trail, Guadalupe River Trail and Coyote
Creek Trail.

e.	Work with qualified organizations and entities, including,
but not limited to, the California Conservation Corps, the
San Jose Conservation Corps, AmeriCorps and others, to
maintain facilities in Open Space Preserves including, but
not limited to, cultural and historic structures, bridges,
roads, and other infrastructure.

f.	Prevent pollution and vandalism of open space, water
resources and wildlife habitat.

4.	Urban Open Space, Parks and Environmental Education

Program

The purpose of this Grant Program is to assist municipalities, schools and
applicable non-profit organizations within the cities of Milpitas, Santa
Clara, San Jose, Campbell, Morgan Hill and urban County areas to create
healthy and safe open space and park areas for their communities by:
creating or improving parks; preserving open space and maintaining or
creating trails; enhancing and restoring habitat, natural resources and
water resources; and enhancing access to healthy food through urban
farms and gardens. No more than 25 percent of the revenues generated
by this funding measure will be made available for this Grant Program.
The Grant Program would provide grants to cities, the County, schools
and non-profit organizations on a competitive basis for the types of
projects listed below within the boundaries of the OSA. Funds shall be
available through an annual grant allocation process designed by the
Santa Clara County Open Space Authority, in coordination with cities, the
County, schools and non-profit organizations within the boundaries of the
OSA. Grant allocations shall reward a diversity of projects and be
balanced geographically across the Santa Clara County Open Space
Authority's jurisdiction. The grant allocation process and the individual
projects shall be subject to approval by the Authority's Governing Board
of Directors ("Board'1).

Urban Open Space Project Criteria:

a.	Protect and enhance open space, wildlife habitat and
wildlife corridors, and develop land for nature-based parks,
open space preserves, trails and greenbelts.

b.	Create, develop and implement pedestrian and bicycle
trail connections to connect urban communities to local
and regional parks, Open Space Preserves, creeks and

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Q-Continued

flood control channels, to improve public health (i.e. San
Francisco Bay Trail, Coyote Creek, Guadalupe River,
Silver Creek, Thompson Creek, Penitencia Creek, Three
Creeks Trail, Five Wounds Trail).

c.	Implement urban tree planting and tree protection/
maintenance.

d.	Create and expand urban farms and community gardens
to support public health and local agriculture.

e.	Expand nature and science-based environmental
education programs and hands-on youth engagement
projects.

EXAMPLES OF HIGH PRIORITY POTENTIAL PROJECTS AND

GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION

1.	San Francisco Baylands Restoration: Increase wildlife habitat and
reduce pollution by restoring salt ponds to tidal marsh, provide
enhanced flood control, and develop new public access to the Bay

2.	Alviso Adobe and Higuera Adobe Parks: Establish Alviso Adobe as
a historical museum, and refurbish the historic Caretaker’s Cottage
in Higuera Adobe Park in collaboration with the City of Milpitas

3.	San Francisco Bay Trail: Increase public access by closing gaps in
Bay Trail walking and biking trail connections

4.	San Francisco Bay Area Water Trail: Provide Water Trail public
access amenities at Alviso Marina

5.	Ulistac Natural Area: Increase educational programming, and
restore natural habitat

6.	Sierra Vista: Establish staging area and trails, convert historic
residence to visitor hostel, restore pond and wildlife habitats for
endangered species

7.	Penitencia Creek Trail: Complete trail linking Penitencia Creek
community to Alum Rock Park and Sierra Vista Open Space
Preserve

8.	Guadalupe River Nature Center and Environmental Programming:
Partner with nonprofits to establish outdoor environmental education
learning center and interpretive programming for youth and families

9.	Five Wounds Trail: Develop additional trails connecting to future
public transit station

10.	Coyote Creek Trail: Expand walking and biking trail connections
and restore natural habitats

11.	Silver Creek Trail: Increase walking and biking opportunities by
creating connections to regional trails, parks and transit

12.	Three Creeks Trail: Complete eastern trail alignment

13.	San Tomas Aquino/Saratoga Creek Trail: Construct walking and
biking trails through cities of Campbell and Santa Clara

14.	Thompson Creek Trail Improvements: Complete walking and biking
trail improvements

15.	Guadalupe River Trail: Expand walking and biking trail connections

16.	Martial Cottle Park: Partner with County Parks to develop trail link
to Blossom Hill Light Rail Station and implement recreation and
wetland restoration projects

17.	Santa Teresa Hills: Partner with City of San Jose, County and Santa
Teresa Neighborhood Association to protect land and develop
regional ridgeline trail connections to create more access to local
trails

N SC Ballot Type 001 - Page 25

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Q-Continued

18.	Coyote Ridge: Establish new open space preserve with parking and
regional trails, and protect and restore habitat for endangered
species

19.	Calero County Park: Partner with County to establish a staging area,
public access and trails at Rancho San Vicente and at McKean Road

20.	Coyote Valley Open Space Preserve: Build an outdoor learning
center and a loop trail accessible to seniors and people with
disabilities, and restore and enhance wetland habitat

21.	Coyote Valley Agriculture and Natural Resource Reserve: Preserve
agricultural lands, enhance natural resources, establish public
access, and protect wildlife corridor

22.	Youth Agricultural Education and Demonstration Farm: Partner with
Cities of San Jose, Morgan Hill, Sobrato High School, nonprofits and
agricultural organizations to establish an agricultural education and
demonstration farm in the Coyote Valley Greenbelt

23.	Rancho Canada del Oro Open Space Preserve: Restore wildlife
habitat, build an interactive education center, and construct new
staging area and regional trails for increased public access

24.	El Toro Peak: Partner with City of Morgan Hill to establish an open
space preserve with staging area and trails, and restore natural
habitat

25.	Southern Santa Cruz Mountains:	Establish	regional trail

connections between Uvas Reservoir, Uvas County Park and
Rancho Canada del Oro Open Space Preserve, develop staging
area, and protect wildlife corridor

26.	Uvas Creek: Protect wildlife habitat and corridor, protect natural
lands for water supply and water quality, and increase trails to close
gaps in regional trails

27.	Palassou Ridge: Establish open space preserve, restore historic
stone house for visitor center, develop multi-use trails connecting to
Henry Coe State Park; implement wildfire prevention and habitat
restoration projects

28.	Diablo Foothills: Establish open space preserve, restore wetlands
and bird habitat, implement public access improvements

29.	Sargent Hills: Protect wildlife corridor, create staging area, public
access and regional trail connections to the Bay Area Ridge Trail

30.	South County Agriculture: Conserve working farms and ranches
near Morgan Hill, Gilroy and Pajaro River for greenbelts and
agricultural viability and to enhance flood control, water quality,
wildlife habitat and connectivity

C.	Administrative Provisions and Fiscal Safeguards

1.	Citizen Oversight and Independent Financial Audits

In order to ensure accountability, transparency and public oversight of all

funds collected and allocated under this Measure and to comply with

state law, all of the following shall apply:

a. On or before January 1 of each fiscal year, the Authority's
chief fiscal officer shall file an annual report with the Board
that explains (1) the amount of funds collected and
expended under this Measure, and (2) the status of the
projects authorized to be funded by this revenue in
compliance with Government Code Sections 50075.1(d),
50075.3.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Q-Continued

b.	No later than June 30, 2015, or the first collection of
revenue pursuant to the Measure, whichever is later, an
Independent Oversight Committee shall be convened to
review the expenditures of all parcel tax revenues
collected under this Measure. The Board shall establish
by resolution the terms, composition, and specific duties
of the Oversight Committee, consistent with the "Citizen
Oversight and Independent Financial Audits” provisions
set forth in this Part C(1). The Oversight Committee will
consist of seven at-large members. In making
appointments to the Oversight Committee, the Board will
seek to reflect the demographic diversity of its jurisdiction.

c.	Members of the Oversight Committee shall be appointed
by the Board and shall be residents within the Santa Clara
County Open Space Authority's jurisdiction who are
neither elected officials of any government, nor employees
from any agency or organization that directly benefits
financially from the proceeds of the parcel tax.

d.	Oversight Committee meetings will be announced in
advance and will be open to the public. The Oversight
Committee shall meet at least once but no more than four
times per year.

e.	The responsibilities of this Committee include:

•	Reviewing Plan expenditures on an annual
basis to ensure they conform to the Plan.

•	Reviewing the annual audit and report prepared
by an independent auditor and submitting its
recommendations and oversight report thereon.

f.	All actions, including decisions about selecting projects for
funding, will be made by the Board in public meetings in
compliance with the Brown Act

g.	Annual levies of the parcel tax would start in 2015.

h.	To the extent allowable by law, all residential and non-
residential parcels will be uniformly taxed.

i.	The revenue raised by the Measure for the purposes
described in this Plan will be administered by the Santa
Clara County Open Space Authority. All funds shall be
placed in a separate account to hold all funds collected
pursuant to the Measure.

2.	Additional Allocation Criteria and Community Benefits

The Santa Clara Open Space Authority shall ensure that the revenue
generated by the Measure is spent in the most efficient and effective
manner possible, consistent with serving the public interest and in
accordance with existing law and this Plan.

a. The Santa Clara Open Space Authority shall make all final
decisions regarding implementation of the Plan and
funding for any specific high priority projects. The Board
shall give priority to projects within its jurisdiction that meet
multiple objectives of the Santa Clara Valley Greenprint,
including one or more of the following objectives:
i. Have a significant positive effect on the health of land,
water, and wildlife habitat, safety and quality of life for
OSA residents.

N SC Ballot Type 001 - Page 26

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE Q-Continued

ii.	Provide for geographic distribution of projects across
OSA's jurisdiction.

iii.	Increase impact by leveraging state and federal
resources as well as public/private partnerships.

iv.	Strengthen connections between communities and
open space through regionally-significant trails and
transit access.

v.	Benefit the economy and sustainability of the region
by investing in nature-based infrastructure and local
workforce development.

vi.	Engage youth and young adults in local workforce
development and assist them in gaining skills and
experience related to protection and stewardship of
the natural environment, wildlife, water resources
and agricultural lands.

b.	The Board shall conduct one or more public meetings
annually to gain public input on selection of project grants
on which to expend revenues generated by the Measure.

c.	The Santa Clara County Open Space Authority may
accumulate revenue over multiple years so that sufficient
funding is available for larger and long-term projects. All
interest income shall be used for the purposes identified
in this Plan.

d.	No more than 5% of the revenue generated by this
measure and provided to the Santa Clara County Open
Space Authority may be used for administrative expenses.

e.	Costs of performing or contracting for project related work
shall be paid from the revenues of the measure allocated
to the appropriate purpose and project.

f.	An annual independent audit shall be conducted to assure
that the revenues expended by the Santa Clara County
Open Space Authority under this Plan are necessary and
reasonable in carrying out its responsibilities under this
Plan.

g.	To the extent permitted by law, up to one-tenth of one
percent (0.1 %) of the gross proceeds of the parcel tax
shall be made available for the Oversight Committee's
activities.

h.	Parcel tax proceeds are intended to augment annual
support for the Santa Clara County Open Space Authority
and do not substitute for individual city or County
obligations. Monies from this program may not go to a
city's or the County's "General Fund."

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

We are fortunate to enjoy beautiful open vistas, parks, trails and unique
natural areas right here in Santa Clara Valley.

From urban parks to scenic hillsides, the open spaces we preserve are a
legacy for our children and grandchildren. They ensure protected natural
areas and access to local trails.

Vote Yes on Q to preserve open space for current and future generations,
so local residents can experience nature here in Silicon Valley.

Measure Q will:

•	Preserve scenic hillsides, open space, wildlife habitat, redwood
forests, agricultural land and urban open space

•	Increase public access to open space, maintain local parks and
trails, and expand trail connections among local and regional
parks

•	Protect lands around creeks, streams and rivers to prevent
toxins and pollution from getting into our drinking water

•	Provide outdoor environmental education opportunities for
children and adults

All Measure Q funds will preserve open space in San Jose, Milpitas,
Santa Clara, Campbell, Morgan Hill and unincorporated Santa Clara
County—the state cannot take away a single penny. Independent citizen
oversight and annual audits will ensure funds are spent as promised.
Measure Q expires in 15 years.

As our region continues to grow, protecting scenic hillsides, open spaces,
and creeks and streams is increasingly important to maintain our high
quality of life in Santa Clara County.

Business and community leaders agree that open space makes Santa
Clara County a wonderful place to work and live. Parents and educators
agree that access to open space is essential for hands on science
education and places for kids to explore nature.

Please join us: Vote Yes on Q to protect the natural areas that make
Silicon Valley a beautiful place to live, now and in the future.

For more information about Measure Q supporters and a map of priority
open space preservation projects, visit YesforSCVopenspace.org.

/s/Zoe Lofgren
Congresswoman

/s/Rod Diridon, Sr.

President, Santa Clara County League of Conservation Voters

/s/Gloria Chun Hoo
President of the Leagues of Women Voters of Santa Clara County

/s/Steve Tate
Mayor of Morgan Hill

/s/ Carl Guardino
President and CEO of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group

N SC Ballot Type 001 - Page 27