MEASURE O
CITY OF ANTIOCH

cannot be seized by the State, to maintain such general
City services as police services, code enforcement, street
repairs, senior services and youth programs, shall the City
of Antioch adopt a residential landlord business'license
tax based on the type and number of units and confirm
the existing gross receipts business license tax with an
increased minimum tax, which is not a fax on the genera!
public?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF

MEASURE O

The City Council voted unanimously to put Measure 0 on
the ballot to ask voters to:

*	Confirm that the rental of real property (e.g. land, or
building) is a business subject to taxation;

*	impose an annual business license tax on residential
landlords renting Antioch property at $250 per
detached, single-famiiy dwelling unit (e.g, house)
and $150 per attached, multi-family dwelling unit
(e.g. apartment); and

*	Maintain existing business license taxes for ail
other businesses, but with an increase in the annua!
minimum tax to $100 for businesses subject to the
gross receipts tax formula, except for certain home
occupation businesses for which the minimum tax
remains $25,

Applicability of Business License Taxes

Business license taxes are not taxes on the general
public. Businesses operating in Antioch pay the tax to
provide funding for municipal services in Antioch. These
municipal services, like police, code enforcement street
repair, park and median landscaping and maintenance,
benefit businesses and residences in Antioch.

Landlords of commercial properties already pay business
license taxes based on the existing gross receipts formula.
Likewise, their commercial tenants pay business license
taxes. Historically, the majority of residential landlords
(single-family and multi-family) nave not paid a business
license tax. The proposed per dwelling unit business
license tax would replace the gross receipts business
license tax that some apartment owner's have paid.

Nonprofits - including nonprofit senior housing - are
exempt from paying the existing business license tax and
would be exempt from this proposed tax.

Business License Tax Formulas

Cities may use different formulas for taxing different kinds
of businesses, This may include using flat dollar amounts
for some businesses and a percentage of gross receipts
for other kinds of businesses. Sometimes cities use a
particular formula because it is more efficient method of
tax collection.

The proposed taxon residential landlords would only appiy
to properties located in Antioch. This meets Constitutional
requirements to be nondiscrlminatory and apportioned so
not to burden interstate commerce.

General Revenue for AH City Services

The tax revenue would be deposited in the City’s
genera! fund, it could be used for any iegai municipal
purpose including:	police	and	emergency	response;

code enforcement; local economic development and job
creation; street repair; and any other City program or
service.

Effect of Measure 0

Voting "Yes” on Measure 0 is a vote to: 1) confirm that
the rental of property is a business subject to taxation;
2) impose an annual business license tax on residential
landlords; and 3) maintain the existing business license
taxes for ai! other businesses but with an increase to the
minimum business license tax for businesses subject to
the gross receipts formula, with some exceptions.

Voting "No" on Measure 0 is a vote against the tax on
residential landlords and the increased minimum business
license tax.

If a majority of voters vote "Yes” on Measure O, it passes.
Respectfully submitted,

Lynn Tracy Norland
Antioch City Attorney

PRINT-READ Y PDF

CC-MO-1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF

MEASURE O

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASUREO

The City of Antioch lacks the revenue to provide adequate
levels of municipal services to the community. Suffering
from staffing and operating expense cuts of 30% since
2007, all General Fund functions are significantly under-'
staffed, including Police, Code Enforcement, Public Works,
Planning, Building and administrative departments,As a
result the police department, the public works office and
City Hal! are closed on Fridays.

Antioch does not have a spending problem. Antioch has
a revenue problem. Low property values, low property tax
revenue, and low sales tax revenue give Antioch much
lower General Fund revenues than comparably sized cities
in the County, at $404.36 per resident (2014-15 budget),
in comparison, Concord receives $681.68 and Richmond,
at $1,255,75, receives more than triple the revenue of
Antioch. Pittsburg and Brentwood receive $555,84 and
$817.35 respectively.

A group of Antioch citizens started an initiative to adjust
the Business License Tax for residential landlords to $240
per unit per year. After months of negotiations between
the California Apartment Association, the citizen’s initiative
leaders and the City, the City proposed a $250 per unit
annual charge for detached houses being rented and $150
per unit for multi-family rental units. This will equate to
$20.83 per month for rental houses and $12.50 a month
for apartments - about one percent (.8% to 1.2%) of gross
rent, which will be paid by landlords. The citizens agreed.
The Apartment Association did not

Many wealthy investors that purchased houses in Antioch
have not been paying Business License Taxes, it’s time
they did. They are making millions in Antioch, whiie
enjoying the tax advantages of real estate investment.
Measure O will ensure they pay their fair share in Antioch.
After all, all property owners will benefit greatly from the
additional services the City will fund with this revenue,

JOIN ANTIOCH CITIZENS IN SUPPORTING
MEASURE O.

Antioch City Council, Wade Harper, Mayor
Hansel Hon Tao Ho, Former Crime Prevention
Commissioner

James Kenneth Gray Jr., Boardmember - East Contra
Costa Transit Authority

Donald P. Freitas, Former Mayor - City of Antioch
Robin Agopian, Resident

In June, the Contra Costa Times reported that the City
of Antioch has a budget surplus according to the City's
own Finance Director. But once again, the Antioch City
Council is trying to increase taxes on its cftizens.

And once again the City Council has proposed a tax
measure that side-steps the two-thirds vote requirement,
thus making it even easier to increase taxes without
requiring the City to reveal how the money will be spent,

Last year, Antioch voters supported a massive tax
increase - Measure C. The City Council claimed (falsely)

that the money would be used to hire 22 new police
officers. But the Contra Costa Times uncovered that
Measure C money was never used to hire 22 new

officers; and another news report stated that Antioch
voters were "hoodwinked on the use of Measure C funds."

With Measure O, the City Council is trying to take
advantage of the voters again!

•	Many senior citizens wtH ultimately be paying for the
Measure O tax.

*	There are absolutely no guarantees how the
Measure O money will be spent,

Antioch’s Finance Director said that the City has a
budget surplus,

It is Irresponsible for the City Council to raise taxes
resulting In higher costs for senior citizens - many on
fixed incomes and elderly - and least able to afford
increased monthly payments.

The City Council should simply trust the voters and provide
a detailed spending plan when asking for new taxes. But
instead, the City Councii is asking for another blank check,
and using scare tactics to influence unsuspecting voters.

So if the City Council won’t trust the voters, why should we
trust the City Councii with yet another tax Increase? Please
join senior citizens, home owners, and business
owners in Voting NO on Measure O.

California Apartment Association, Contra Costa Division,

Aaron Meadows, Board Member

Lisa Alotte, Antioch Senior Citizen

Scott MacIntyre, Antioch Realtor/Resident

Perry Shusta, Antioch Resident/Business Owner

Charles Caballero, Antioch Senior Citizen

print-ready pdf 7- 2- 7%

CC-MQ-2

FULL TEXT OF
MEASUREO

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ANTIOCH
TO UPDATE THE EXISTING BUSINESS LICENSE
TAX ORDINANCE TO INCLUDE A RESIDENTIAL
LANDLORD BUSINESS LICENSE TAX AND TO
CONFIRM THE EXISTING BUSINESS LICENSE TAX,
WITH AN INCREASE IN THE MINIMUM TAX

The people of the City of Antioch do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. BUSINESS LICENSING. The following
sentence is added to the definition of “Business" in Section
3-1102 of the Antioch Municipal Code:

"The rental or lease of real property is a Business
subject to taxation under this chapter."

SECTION 2. RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD BUSINESS
LICENSE TAX* The following provision is added to

Chapter 1 of Title 3 of the Antioch Municipal Code to read
as follows:

“Section 3-1.217 RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD

(A) In lieu of any other business license
tax and subject to sub-section (B) beiow, all those
in the business of renting living quarters, including
but not limited to a rental dwelling unit as defined in
Section 5-20.201 of the Antioch Municipal Code,
shall pay the annual license amount Indicated in
the table immediately beiow based on the total
number of units they are renting or have available
for rent within the City of Antioch and the type of
unit as defined in the Municipal Code:

Type Of Unit	Annual tax
Single family dwelling unit	$250.00 per unit
Multi-family dwelling unit including duplexes, condominiums and apartments	$150.00 per unit

(B)	The following living, quarters are
excepted from this requirement to pay a business
license tax based on dwelling units but still must
pay the tax based on gross receipts: (i) those that
fit within the definition of hospital, hotel, motel,
and convalescent and extended care facility and
residential care facility as defined in Section
9-5.203 of the Antioch Municipal Code; (ii) those
that are exempt as a matter of law; and (isi) those
that the Director of Financial Services reasonably
determines to be substantially similar in nature to
one of the excepted living quarters listed above.

(C)	The Director of Financial Services may
promulgate policies and procedures to administer
this tax.

SECTION 3. CONFIRMATION OF THE EXISTING
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ORDINANCE AND RATE.

The business license tax provisions in Chapter 1 of Title 3
of the Antioch Municipal Code are hereby confirmed. Any

business not specifically enumerated in Chapter 1 of Title
3 of the Antioch Municipal Code, which the City may tax,
shall pay a business license tax according to the average
annual gross receipts as defined according to the existing
formula in Section 3-1,201 of the Antioch Municipal
Code, with the exception that the minimum tax is raised
to $100.00, except for Home Occupation Businesses as
defined in Title 9 that are not ‘‘Professionals" as defined in
Title 3, as to whom the minimum tax shall remain $25,00:

From	To	Tax
$0.00	$20,000.00	$100.00 (except for non-Professiona! Horne Occupation businesses which shall pay $25.00)
$20,001,00	$1,000,000,00	$1.25/ $1,000.00 of gross receipts
$1,000,001.00 & above		$1,250,00 plus 20 $  / thousand dollars of gross receipts over $1,000,000.00

SECTION 4. AMENDMENT* This Ordinance may be
repealed or amended by the City Council without a vote of
the People except as follows: as required by Article X111C of
the California Constitution, any amendment that increases
the amount or rate of tax beyond the levels authorized by
this Ordinance may not take effect unless approved by
a vote of the People. The City Council may Impose the
tax in any amount or rate which does not exceed the rate
approved by the voters of the City.

SECTION 5. REVENUE MEASURE. The tax adopted
by this Ordinance is enacted solely to raise revenue for
municipal purposes and is not intended for the purpose
of regulation. The People of the City determine the
tax to be an appropriate general tax for the purpose of
raising revenue. Proceeds of the tax will be deposited
in the general fund of the City and will be available for
any lawful municipal purpose. This Ordinance does not,
in itself, authorize the conduct of any business or activity
in the City, but merely provides for the taxation of such
businesses or activities.

SECTION 6. SEVERABILITY, if any provision of this
ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shaii not be affected thereby, The voters of
the City hereby declare that they would have adopted this
Ordinance and each portion thereof regardless of the fact
that an invalid portion or portions may have been present
in the Ordinance.

SECTION 7. CEQA. This business license tax to be

submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be used
for any legitimate governmental purpose. As such, under
CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a
project within the meaning of CEQA because if creates
a government funding mechanism that does not involve
any commitment to any specific project that may result
in a potentially significant impact on the environment/

Ck

I



CC-MO-3

PRINT-READY PDE-

Therefore, under CEQA Guidelines section 16060, review
under CEQA is not required.

SECTION 8. EFFECTIVE DATE, This ordinance relates to
the levying and collecting of the City’s business license tax
and shall not take effect until ten days after the certification
of its approval by the majority of the voters voting at the
general municipal election to be held on November 4,
2014 pursuant to Elections Code section 9217

SECTION 9. CERTIFICATION: PUBLICATION.

Upon approval by the voters, the City Clerk shall certify
to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance and shall
cause it to be published according to law.

Ordinance No,____was submitted to the People of the City

of Antioch at the November 4, 2014 municipal election, it
is hereby certified that this Ordinance was APPROVED by
the following vote of the People of Antioch:

This Ordinance was thereby adopted by the voters at
the November 4, 2014 election and took effect 10 days
foliowing adoption of a resolution declaring the results of
the election at a regular meeting of the City Council held

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct
copy of an ordinance duly and regularly adopted by the
People of the City of Antioch, California.

Arne Stmonsen,

City Clerk of the City of Antioch

YES:

NO:

on

by the following vote:

PRINT-READ Y PDF



CO-MO-4