IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF FOUNTAIN VALLEY
MEASURE S

Measure S would increase the transient occupancy tax of the City of Fountain Valley from the current 9% to 10%. The transient occupancy tax
is collected from persons who stay in hotels, motels and similar lodgings within the City of Fountain Valley for 30 days or less.

The existing tax is 9% of the hotel charge and the passage of this measure would increase the tax 1%. These taxes are collected by the hotel
operator and transferred to the City on a quarterly basis. These are general taxes and the funds collected are authorized by law to be used for
general government purposes and basic services such as police, fire, public works and recreation programs.

Most cities in Orange County have a transient occupancy tax and those range from 8% to 15%.

State law requires general taxes to be approved by a majority of those voting in the City election. This Measure has been placed on the ballot
by the City Council.

A “YES” vote on the Measure will increase the existing transient occupancy tax on hotel stays from 9% to 10%.

A “NO” vote on the Measure will keep the existing transient occupancy tax on hotel stays at 9%.

(The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure S. In the event this Measure is not printed and included in this packet, call the elections
official’s office at 714-593-4445 and a copy will be provided at not cost to you.)

Dated: 07-01-2014

s/Alan R. Burns
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Approving Measure S will add needed funds for public safety
and other City services residents, businesses and visitors use each
day.

The current 9% Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT), commonly
called “hotel or bed tax,” is paid only by hotel guests who stay in
Fountain Valley hotels 30 days or less.

The majority of the Fountain Valley City Council supports a
raise of the TOT Tax by 1%, bringing Fountain Valley’s TOT up to the
county average of 10%. By raising the TOT just 1%, an estimated
$100,000 annual revenue may be added to the General Fund to help
pay for needed services.

Fountain Valley entered the 2008 Recession with both expense
and revenue problems to solve. Since then the City reduced the
number of employees by 40, re-negotiated all employee contracts
including major benefit reforms, hired outside private contractors to
reduce costs, while cutting the budget over $5,000,000 during this
time.

Fountain Valley’s revenues have been under attack by repeated
State raids, and a depressed economy. We must find other revenue
sources to maintain our public safety, good roads and high quality
services our residents and visitors deserve.

Four out of five council members believe Measure S will benefit
Fountain Valley with this 1% increase in the Transient Occupancy Tax
where visitors will enjoy staying in a safe and desirable community,
playing in our beautiful sport parks, while experiencing the best our
diverse community has to offer.

Fountain Valley will use these funds to maintain and enhance
public safety services, parks, and our City infrastructure. Best of
all, the State cannot take this revenue. This one percent increase in
Fountain Valley’s TOT will ensure a safe and desirable community
that serves its residents, businesses, and visitors.

We respectfully request a “Yes” vote on Measure S, on Tuesday
November 4 to Protect City Services.

s/ Michael Vo
Mayor

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

In their argument in support of this tax increase, four City Council
members state:

1.	“We must find other revenue sources to maintain our public
safety...”

2.	“Fountain Valley will use these funds to maintain and enhance
public safety...”

3.	“... visitors will enjoy staying in a safe and desirable
community,...”

What are we to make of the repeated references to Public Safety? Is
Public Safety somehow compromised without additional revenue?

Fountain Valley already enjoys great public safety, low crime rates
overall and many desirable amenities such as Mile Square Park.

Increasing the Transient Occupancy Tax is not needed to ensure our
public safety. Rather, it is indicative of a mindset that views raising
taxes as a viable option for increasing City revenues. This is a
problem.

Doesn’t it make better sense to increase revenue by attracting
desirable businesses to Fountain Valley? We’ve enjoyed strong
success in this area in recent years. Isn’t expanding our business
development a more viable means of increasing revenues than taxing
the public to grow the City’s general fund?

My colleagues mention the depressed economy as one of the reasons
this increase is needed. All of us who have lived through these lean
years have already had to make personal sacrifices. Do we really
want another tax increase to grow City revenues? Let’s work on other
options to ensure tax increases are only considered as a last resort.

Please join me in voting No on Measure S.

s/ Mark McCurdy

Fountain Valley City Council Member

s/ Steve A. Nagel
Mayor Pro Tern

s/ Cheryl Brothers
Council Member

s/ John J. Collins
Council Member

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Another tax increase? It seems all too “casual” these days. Measure
S proposes an increase in the Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT); a tax
charged by hotels that is returned to the City’s general fund.

Fountain Valley charges a TOT of 9%. If approved by the voters, the
TOT will increase to 10%.

An easy answer to increase City revenues is often another tax
increase. But, is that really the best answer? Fountain Valley has a
AAA credit rating, good reserves in the bank and even a surplus. Do
we really need another tax increase?

Fountain Valley residents are already paying increased tax rates
and other fees. The City’s water & sewer tax just went up, last year
the Orange County Sanitation District passed a fee hike, and the
City is considering a proposed trash rate increase. Now a hotel tax
increase?

We’re told not to worry because this tax increase will be paid by
visitors staying in Fountain Valley hotels. It won’t affect the residents.
Really?

If you have ever had your family or friends stay in Fountain Valley, it
will affect you. If you have a fire, flood, or fumigation of your home, and
need a place to stay, it will affect you.

Our family had two events several years ago in Huntington Beach.
The Huntington Beach TOT is currently 10%. In each case, our family
chose to stay in Fountain Valley. You should know that Costa Mesa,
with its Fairgrounds/South Coast Plaza, and Irvine, with John Wayne
Airport and the “Great Park”, each charge 8% TOT.

The excuse that it won’t affect us is too often how politicians justify
increasing taxes. How can it not affect us and the cost of goods and
services that we all pay?

Reject another “casual” tax increase. Vote “No” on Measure S.
s/ Mark McCurdy

Fountain Valley City Council Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Let’s set the record straight.

We don’t casually raise taxes or fees. We are all taxpayers! Fees
cover the actual cost of providing a service. A ‘hotel tax’ is one way
the City can continue to provide our residents and visitors with quality
services without asking residents to pay more. Cities with big malls,
car dealerships, Disneyland and beaches may have higher revenue,
but more problems. Many cities in Orange County have a tax on all
your utilities, Fountain Valley never has.

The City’s reserves have proven to be a smart thing; this is how the city
has kept providing services to you by short-term spending of reserves.
Now those reserves need to be replenished. Without reserves, we
would have been forced to fire staff and reduce services. The City
does have an AAA credit rating but we won’t borrow money to pay for
on-going services - not a smart way to budget.

The city does not tax water or sewer; those charges are based on
cost from special districts plus the actual cost of city staff providing
those services. Further, Fountain Valley is not proposing a trash rate
increase - our trash hauler is.

Visitors adversely impact police, fire, paramedic resources, good
streets, and public areas. The current “hotel tax” and proposed one
percent increase commit visitors to share the burden and benefits
Fountain Valley residents enjoy and expect. Measure S does not
raise taxes for residents of Fountain Valley.

Vote “Yes” on Measure S to maintain our “Nice Place to Live.”

s/ Michael Vo
Mayor

s/ Steve A. Nagel
Mayor Pro Tern

s/ Cheryl Brothers
Council Member

s/John J. Collins
Council Member