Agenda Item

DATE:	JULY 8, 2014

TO:	HONORABLE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL

FROM:	BENJAMIN T. REYES II, CITY ATTORNEY

KRISTOPHER J. KOKOTAYLO, DEPUTY CITY ATTORNEY

COPY:	LARRY CHEEVES, CITY MANAGER

RENEE ELLIOTT, CITY CLERK

SUBJECT:	ADOPT A RESOLUTION CALLING AN ELECTION TO BE HELD

ON NOVEMBER 4, 2014, FOR VOTER CONSIDERATION OF
THE EXTENSION OF AN EXISTING, VOTER-APPROVED
LOCAL ONE-HALF CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES)
TAX FOR TEN YEARS WITH NO INCREASE IN TAX RATE
FOR THE CONTINUED MAINTENANCE OF CITY SERVICES;
ESTABLISHING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES IN
CONNECTION WITH SUCH AN ELECTION; REQUESTING THE
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA TO
CONSOLIDATE THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION WITH
THE GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 4,
2014, REQUESTING CERTAIN SERVICES OF THE REGISTRAR
OF VOTERS OF ALAMEDA COUNTY WITH RESPECT TO THE
CONSOLIDATED GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION; AND
PROVIDING FOR SUBMITTAL OF BALLOT ARGUMENTS AND
REBUTTALS AND AUTHORIZING THE FILING OF AN
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Staff recommends that the City Council adopt a resolution calling an election and
submitting the consideration of a ten-year extension of Measure AA, an existing voter-
approved local one-half cent transactions and use (sales) tax with no increase in tax rate,
to the voters at the November 4, 2014 general election.

BACKGROUND

In July 2010, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 4030-10, proposing for voter
consideration at the November 2010 General Municipal election, a one-half cent (.5%)
transactions and use (sales) tax increase for four years (“Measure AA”). At the General
Municipal election on November 2, 2010, the voters of Union City approved Measure
AA by 60.12%.

Page 1 of 4
172

Measure AA went into effect on April 1, 2011 and increased the total sales tax rate in
Union City to 9.5%. Between April 1, 2011 and December 31, 2013 Measure AA has
generated an average of $3.9 million in revenue per year. Measure AA, absent an
extension, is currently scheduled to expire or “sunset” on March 31, 2015, four years
after it went into effect.

DISCUSSION

Staff presented several reports over the past year regarding the fiscal impact of Measure
A A, the effect of extending Measure A A on the City’s general fund and, conversely, the
effect of permitting Measure AA to expire. Below is a summary of the presentations to
the City Council and actions of the City Council relating to the proposed extension of
Measure AA to date:

1.	City Council Work Session - November 26. 2013: The City Council had a
preliminary discussion regarding whether to authorize placement of the extension
of Measure AA on the November 2014 ballot. Staff presented an informational
report regarding the fiscal impact that Measure AA has had on Union City’s
general fund as well as a projection of the fiscal impact if Measure AA were
allowed to expire.

2.	City Council Meeting - January 28. 2014: Staff provided additional information
including:

a.	A comparison of Bay Area cities with Sales Tax add-ons.

b.	Comparative trends for similar businesses within Union City and
surrounding areas.

c.	Additional analysis on the impact of the revenue loss if Measure AA were
not extended.

d.	Feedback from retail establishments within Union City.

e.	Draft timeline for ballot submissions for the November 4, 2014 General
Municipal election.

3.	City Council Meeting - March 11. 2014: The City Council adopted a resolution
authorizing staff to prepare a ballot measure to place an extension of Measure AA
on the November 4, 2014 ballot and authorizing the City Manager to hire a
consultant to perform ballot measure development and to conduct a
comprehensive community survey regarding the proposed Measure AA extension.

4.	City Council Retreat - May 17. 2014: The City Council received a presentation
regarding the community survey results for the proposed extension of Measure
AA, with no increase in tax rate. These survey results found, among other issues
that Union City constituents wanted to maintain a local funding source that cannot
be taken by the State for services such as 911 police and paramedic services, fire
protection, library hours, and services for children, teens, and residents with
special needs.

Page 2 of 4
173

Attached as Exhibit A is a Proposed Resolution calling an election and submitting a ten-
year Measure AA extension to the voters at the November 4, 2014 general election. A
two-thirds vote of the City Council (or four out of five City Council Members) is
required to place the ten-year Measure AA extension on the November ballot.
(Government Code section 53724.) Should the Council elect to adopt the Proposed
Resolution, the following election timeline would apply:

1.	July 8. 2014: Council adopts the Proposed Resolution calling an election and
placing the Measure AA extension on the ballot.

2.	July 29. 2014: Direct arguments for or against the Measure AA extension due no
later than 11:00 a.m. (Elections Code sections 9282, 9286.)

3.	August 8. 2014: Rebuttal arguments due no later than 11:00 a.m. (Elections Code
section 9285.)

4.	November 4. 2014: General election.

If the City Council elects to adopt the Proposed Resolution, the City Council may
designate up to two Council members to draft and submit the ballot argument in favor of
the measure and to draft the rebuttal argument to any argument against the measure. The
Proposed Resolution also authorizes the City Council to sign the argument and rebuttal.

FISCAL IMPACT

Measure AA currently generates approximately $4.3 million annually to the City’s
general fund. This amount is expected to grow in the future. If the City Council
consolidates this initiative with the General Municipal election on November 4, 2014,
this action will have minimal fiscal impact to the City.

RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the City Council:

1.	Submit the ten-year Measure AA extension, with no tax rate increase, to the
voters at the next General Municipal election on November 4, 2014.

2.	Designate the person(s) responsible for preparing and submitting the ballot
argument and rebuttal in favor of the extension of Measure AA.

Prepared and Submitted by:

Benjamin T. Reyes II, City Attorney
Kristopher J. Kokotaylo, Deputy City Attorney

Approved by:

Larry Cheeves, City Manager

Page 3 of 4
174

Attachments:

1. Exhibit A: Proposed Resolution calling an election and submitting the extension
of Measure AA to the voters at the November 4, 2014 general election.

2294005.1

Page 4 of 4
175

RESOLUTION NO. 4612-14

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF UNION CITY
CALLING AN ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 4, 2014, FOR VOTER
CONSIDERATION OF THE EXTENSION OF AN EXISTING VOTER-APPROVED
LOCAL ONE-HALF CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX FOR TEN
YEARS WITH NO INCREASE IN TAX RATE FOR THE CONTINUED MAINTENANCE
OF CITY SERVICES; ESTABLISHING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES IN
CONNECTION WITH SUCH AN ELECTION; REQUESTING THE BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA TO CONSOLIDATE THE
GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION WITH THE GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD
ON NOVEMBER 4, 2014, REQUESTING CERTAIN SERVICES OF THE REGISTRAR
OF VOTERS OF ALAMEDA COUNTY WITH RESPECT TO THE CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION; AND PROVIDING FOR SUBMITTAL OF
BALLOT ARGUMENTS AND REBUTTALS AND AUTHORIZING THE FILING OF AN

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

WHEREAS, Union City, like many other cities, continues to be impacted by what
is commonly referred to as the “Great Recession” and past financial takeaways from the
State; and

WHEREAS, this current economic crisis has significantly reduced property and
sales tax revenue; and

WHEREAS, the revenue from property taxes and sales taxes has historically
been Union City’s most significant revenue source; and

WHEREAS, the substantial reduction in property and sales tax revenue has in
turn impacted the general fund; and

WHEREAS, the general fund is vital to Union City’s maintenance of critical
services such as police patrols, safe neighborhoods, and 9-1-1 rapid response times for
fire and emergency services; and

WHEREAS, Union City has implemented reductions in services; and

WHEREAS, Union City would like to avoid additional cuts to essential services;

and

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the continued loss of revenues
from property and sales tax revenue, without any additional revenue source, would
result in the City being unable to continue providing essential services to its citizens at a
necessary and minimum level; and

WHEREAS, at an election held on November 2, 2010, a majority of the voters of
the City of Union City approved a local funding measure that provided revenue that
could not be taken by the State commonly known as “Measure AA”; and

Resolution No. 4612-14

WHEREAS, Measure AA has been critical in maintaining essential City services,
such as 911 emergency response, police patrols, fire protection, youth, senior, after-
school, library and family recreational services, as well as programs for residents with
special needs, among others; and

WHEREAS, Measure AA is set to expire on the fourth anniversary of the
operative date thereof, unless extended by a majority of the voters of the City; and

WHEREAS, the City of Union City has carefully evaluated how to deal with this
potential loss of funds, while continuing to provide the quality of life services that
community residents rely upon; and

WHEREAS, without Measure AA, the City of Union City will not be able to
maintain all existing programs, will not be able to adequately maintain infrastructure or
facilities, and will not be able to maintain the service levels currently in place; and

WHEREAS, a continuation of Measure AA with no increase in tax rate, will
ensure that all money raised will be controlled locally for local services, and cannot be
taken away by the State; and

WHEREAS, the tax to be submitted to the voters, if approved, would be imposed
on the sale of tangible personal property, and the storage, use, or other consumption of
such property. The tax rate would be one-half of one percent (i.e. 0.5%, or one half-cent
for each dollar) of the sales price of the tangible personal property. The tax revenue
would be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City. The tax
would be in effect for ten (10) years and would then expire automatically unless
extended by the voters; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires that the Ordinance be submitted to the
voters as a ballot measure for consideration at a Consolidated General Municipal
Election on November 4, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of this resolution; and

WHEREAS, the City Council recognizes the need to authorize the expenditure of
additional revenues for the purpose of reimbursing the County for including the
Ordinance in the consolidated General Election for November 4, 2014; and

WHEREAS, on June 10, 2014, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 4589-14
by which, among other things, the City called and ordered a General Municipal Election
to be held on Tuesday, November 4, 2014, for the purpose of electing three members of
the City Council; and by which the City requested the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Alameda (the “Board of Supervisors”) to consolidate that General Municipal
Election with the General Election on November 4, 2014, and by which the City
requested the Board of Supervisors to issue instructions to the Registrar of Voters of the
County of Alameda (the “Registrar of Voters”) to provide specified services to the City
including any and all steps necessary for the holding of the consolidated election; and
by which the City Council authorized reimbursing Alameda County based on Alameda
County's established consolidation rate; and

Resolution No. 4612-14

WHEREAS, California Elections Code sections 9281 through 9287 establish
procedures for filing arguments in favor of a ballot measure, and filing rebuttal
arguments, including a procedure by which members of the City Council may be
authorized by the City Council to submit ballot arguments; and

WHEREAS, California Elections Code Section 9280 authorizes the filing of an
impartial analysis regarding ballot measures proposed by cities; and

WHEREAS, on November 6, 1996, the voters of California approved Proposition
218, which added Articles XIIIC and D to the California Constitution; and

WHEREAS, any general tax must be approved by a simple majority vote of the
voters voting on the issue of the imposition of the tax; and

WHEREAS, based on all of the information presented at the July 8, 2014
meeting of the City Council, both written and oral, including the staff reports, minutes,
and other relevant materials, the City Council finds that under CEQA Guidelines
15060(c)(2) and 15378, subdivisions (2) and (4) of subdivision (b), this tax does not
constitute a project under CEQA and therefore review under CEQA is not required.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of Union City that:

SECTION 1. The foregoing recitals are true and correct and are hereby incorporated by
reference.

SECTION 2. Consistent with the requirements of the laws of the State of California
relating to General Law Cities, the City Council hereby calls and orders to be held in the
City of Union City, California, on Tuesday, November 4, 2014, an election, at which
there shall be submitted to qualified voters of Union City, a measure that, if approved,
would enact a temporary general transactions and use tax (“sales” tax), as authorized
by Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9.

SECTION 3. The City Council does hereby submit for adoption by the qualified voters
of the City of Union City at the General Municipal Election of November 4, 2014, the
following question:

To prevent severe cuts to, and maintain essential services such as police, fire, paramedic, library, streets, parks and	YES	
other services, shall Union City adopt an Ordinance extending the existing voter approved Measure AA sales tax with no increase in tax rate, requiring a citizen’s oversight committee, annual independent audits, and all funds for	NO	
Union City and no funds for the State of California?		

Resolution No. 4612-14

SECTION 4. The full text of the proposed measure to be submitted to the voters is
attached as Exhibit A (the “Measure”) hereto and shall be made available to the public
upon request. If a simple majority of the qualified voters voting on the Measure vote in
favor therefor, the Measure shall be deemed adopted upon the City Council’s
declaration of the results of the election and effective ten (10) days thereafter. The
ordinance specifies that the rate of the transactions tax shall be one one-half of one
percent (0.5% ) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in the City; it specifies that the rate of the use tax shall be one -
half of one percent (0.5%) of the sales price of tangible personal property stored, used
or otherwise consumed in the City, and that the tax shall be in effect for ten (10) years
from the date it is first collected. The State Board of Equalization shall collect the tax
from retailers subject to the tax and remit the funds to the City.

SECTION 5. The Board of Supervisors of Alameda County is hereby requested to
consent and agree to the consolidation of the General Municipal Election described in
this Resolution with the General Election on Tuesday, November 4, 2014, and to issue
instructions to the Alameda County Registrar of Voters to take any and all steps
necessary for the holding of the Consolidated General Municipal Election. This request
is made pursuant to California Elections Code section 10403, and the City Council
acknowledges that the consolidated election will be held and conducted in the manner
prescribed in Section 10418.

SECTION 6. The Board of Supervisors of Alameda County is hereby requested to
permit the Alameda County Registrar of Voters to provide such services as may be
necessary to properly and lawfully hold and conduct a Consolidated General Municipal
Election in the City on November 4, 2014, pursuant to this Resolution, including but not
restricted to the providing and printing of ballots and polling place cards, election
supplies, voting booths, flags, registration lists and any other materials and services
required to lawfully conduct the election. The City recognizes that additional costs will
be incurred by the County by reason of this Consolidated General Municipal Election,
and the City agrees to reimburse the County based on the County's established rates.
This request is made pursuant to California Elections Code section 10002.

SECTION 7. Unless otherwise specified in this Resolution, the General Municipal
Election shall be held and conducted as provided in Resolution No. 4589-14, and as
provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 8. (a) In accordance with Elections Code sections 9282 and 9283,
arguments submitted for or against the measure shall not exceed 300 words in length,
and shall be printed upon the same sheet of paper and mailed to each voter with the
sample ballot for the election and may be signed by not more than five (5) persons.

(b)	In accordance with Elections Code section 9282, the following
headings, as appropriate, shall precede the arguments' wording, but shall not be

counted in the 300 word maximum: "Argument Against Measure____________ or	"Argument

For Measure________" (the blank spaces being filled only with the letter or number, if any,

designating the measure).

Resolution No. 4612-14

(c)	In accordance with Elections Code section 9283, printed arguments
submitted to voters in accordance with section 9282 of the Elections Code shall be filed
with the City Clerk, accompanied by the printed name(s) and signature(s) of the
author(s) submitting it or, if submitted on behalf of an organization, the name of the
organization and the printed name and signature of at least one of its principal officers.
Arguments are due in the office of the City Clerk prior to 11:00 a.m. on July 29, 2014.

(d)	The City Council hereby authorizes Mayor Dutra-Vernaci and
Councilmember Navarro to prepare and file a ballot argument in favor of the ballot
measure set forth in this Resolution, which may be signed by members of the City
Council, representatives of bona fide associations of citizens, and individual voters
eligible to vote on the measure. Members of the City Council who sign the ballot
argument may use their titles.

SECTION 9. (a) Pursuant to Elections Code section 9285, when the City Clerk has
selected the arguments for and against the measure, that will be printed and distributed
to the voters, the City Clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor of the measure to
the authors of the argument against, and copies of the argument against to the authors
of the argument in favor. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as
the direct arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct
argument that it seeks to rebut.

(b)	Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed 250 words and may be signed by
more than five persons. However, only the first five persons to sign will be printed with
the ballot measure. The persons that sign the rebuttal arguments may be different
persons than the persons that signed the direct arguments.

(c)	The last day for submittal of rebuttal arguments for or against the
measure shall be by 11:00 a.m. on August 8, 2014.

(d)	The City Council hereby authorizes Mayor Dutra-Vernaci and
Councilmember Navarro to prepare and file a rebuttal argument in favor of the ballot
measure set forth in this Resolution, which may be signed by members of the City
Council, representatives of bona fide associations of citizens, and individual voters
eligible to vote on the measure. Members of the City Council who sign the rebuttal
argument may use their titles. In accordance with Elections Code section 9287, any
council members authorized by the City Council to do so may sign the rebuttal
argument for the measure.

SECTION 10. In accordance with Elections Code section 9280, the City Attorney
is directed to file with the City Clerk an impartial analysis of the measure, not to exceed
500 words, showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and the operation of
the measure.

SECTION 11.	(a)	The	City	Clerk	is	directed to file a certified copy of this resolution

with the Board of Supervisors of Alameda County and the Alameda County Elections
Department. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to take all steps
necessary to place the measure on the ballot and to cause a synopsis of the measure

Resolution No. 4612-14

attached as Exhibit A to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in
accordance with California Elections Code section 12111 and California Government
Code section 6061. A copy of the measure shall be made available to any voter upon
request. The City Clerk is authorized and directed to give further additional notice of the
measure in the time, form, and manner required by law.

(b)	In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, and except as provided
for in Elections Code sections 10403 and 10418, the election shall be held and
conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of
Union City on the 8th day of July 2014 by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Duncan, Gacoscos, and Navarro, Vice Mayor

Ellis, Mayor	Dutra-Vernaci

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

APPROVED:



CAROL DUTRA-VERNACI
Mayor

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:



BENJAMIN T. REYES II
City Attorney

ORDINANCE NO. 800-14

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
UNION CITY AMENDING SECTION 3.22.050 OF THE
UNION CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO EXTEND THE EXISTING, VOTER-APPROVED
MEASURE AA TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX ADMINISTERED BY
THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, the City of Union City (“Union City”), like many other cities, continues to
be impacted by what is commonly referred to as the “Great Recession” and past financial
takeaways from the State; and

WHEREAS, this current economic crisis has significantly reduced property and sales tax
revenue; and

WHEREAS, the revenue from property taxes and sales taxes has historically been Union
City’s most significant revenue source; and

WHEREAS, the substantial reduction in property and sales tax revenue has in turn
impacted the general fund; and

WHEREAS, the general fund is vital to Union City’s maintenance of essential services
such as police patrols, safe neighborhoods, and 9-1-1 rapid response times for fire and

emergency services; and

WHEREAS, Union City has implemented reductions in services; and

WHEREAS, Union City would like to avoid additional cuts to essential services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the continued loss of revenues from
property and sales tax revenue, without any additional revenue source, would result in the City
being unable to continue providing essential services to its citizens at a necessary and minimum
level; and

WHEREAS, at an election held on November 2, 2010, a majority of the voters of the
City of Union City approved a local funding measure that provided revenue that could not be
taken by the State commonly known as “Measure AA”; and

WHEREAS, Measure AA has been critical in maintaining essential City services, such
as 911 emergency response, police patrols, fire protection, youth, senior, after-school, library
and family recreational services, as well as programs for residents with special needs, among
others; and

WHEREAS, Measure AA is set to expire on the fourth anniversary of the operative date
thereof, unless extended by a majority of the voters of the City; and

Ordinance No. 800-14
Page 2 of 3

WHEREAS, the City of Union City has carefully evaluated how to deal with this
potential loss of funds, while continuing to provide the quality of life services that community
residents rely upon; and

WHEREAS, without Measure AA, the City of Union City will not be able to maintain
all existing programs, will not be able to adequately maintain infrastructure or facilities, and will
not be able to maintain the service levels currently in place; and

WHEREAS, a continuation of Measure AA with no increase in tax rate, will ensure that
all money raised will be controlled locally for local services, and cannot be taken away by the
State; and

WHEREAS, Measure A A is codified in Chapter 3.22 of the Union City Municipal Code.
Under section 3.22.150 “Termination Date,” Measure AA is set to expire at the end of March
2015, unless extended by the voters, which would deprive the City of a crucial source of funding
to prevent severe cuts to essential services such as police, fire, paramedic, library, streets, parks
and other services; and

WHEREAS, the proposed measure (Measure JJ) would extend the existing Measure AA
tax for 10 years on the sale of tangible personal property and the storage, use, or other
consumption of such property. The tax rate would continue to be one-half of one percent (0.5%)
(a one-half cent for each dollar) of the sales price of the property. The tax revenue would be
collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City. The tax would be in effect
for an additional 10 years , and would then expire automatically, unless extended by the voters.
The tax shall be approved if the measure receives at least a simple majority of affirmative votes.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF UNION CITY DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Recitals. The above recitals are true and correct and made a part of this
Ordinance.

SECTION 2. Amendment of Section 3.22.150 of the Municipal Code. Section 3.22.150
“Termination Date” of the Union City Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Section 3.22.150. Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on April 1, 2025.”

SECTION 3. Severability. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance, including the application
of such part or provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby and shall
continue in full force and effect. To this end, provisions of this Ordinance are severable. The
City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase hereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases be held
unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable.

Ordinance No. 800-14
Page 3 of 3

SECTION 4. Publication and effective date. Within fifteen (15) days from and after adoption,
this Ordinance shall be published once in the Tri-City Voice, a newspaper of general circulation
printed and published in Alameda County and circulated in the City of Union City, in accordance
with California Government Code Section 36933. If this ordinance is approved by a majority of
the voters voting on the issue (Measure JJ) at the November 4,2014 election, pursuant to
Elections Code Section 9217, this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the
Council declares the results of the election, and the tax shall become operative on the “operative
date,” as defined in this ordinance.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of Union City on Measure JJ on
November 4, 2014:

ADOPTED by Declaration of the November 4, 2014 election results by the City Council of the
City of Union City at a regular meeting held on December 9, 2014, by the following vote, to wit:

YES:

8,920

NO:

3,177

AYES:	Councilmembers	Duncan,	Gacoscos,	Navarro,	Vice	Mayor	Ellis,	Mayor	Dutra-

Vemaci

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

APPROVED:

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Benjamin T. Reyes II, City Attorney

WHATS HAPPENINGS TRI CITY VOICE

This space for filing stamp only

39737 PASEO PADRE PKWY, FREMONT, CA 94538
Telephone (510) 494-1999 / Fax (510) 796-2462

Anna Brown

UNION CITY/CITY CLERK
34009 ALVARADO-NILES ROAD
UNION CITY, CA - 94587-4497

PROOF OF PUBLICATION

(2015.5 C.C.P.)

State of California	)

County of ALAMEDA	) ss

Notice Type: ORD - ORDINANCE PUBLICATION

Ad Description:

Ord 800-14

I am a citizen of the United States and a resident of the State of California; I am
over the age of eighteen years, and not a party to or interested in the above
entitled matter. I am the principal clerk of the printer and publisher of the
WHATS HAPPENINGS TRI CITY VOICE - UNION CITY, a newspaper
published in the English language in the cities of UNION CITY and FREMONT,
and adjudged a newspaper of general circulation as defined by the laws of the
State of California by the Superior Court of the County of ALAMEDA, State of
California, under date of 05/02/2008, Case No. FG08374520. That the notice,
of which the annexed is a printed copy, has been published in each regular and
entire issue of said newspaper and not in any supplement thereof on the
following dates, to-wit:

CNS#: 2697816

ORDINANCE NO. 800-14
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
UNION CITY
AMENDING SECTION 3.22.080 OF THE
UNION CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO EXTEND
THE EXISTING, VOTER-APPROVED
MEASURE AA TRANSACTIONS AND USE
(SALES) TAX ADMINISTERED BY
THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
The above entitled ordinance was adopted by the
City Council on December 9, 2014. This
abbreviated notice is published in lieu of the full
text of the ordinance. A copy of the full text of the
ordinance, as it was read and adopted on
December 9, 2014, is available on the City's
website	at:

http://lf2.unioncity.Org/weblink8/0/fol/112/Rowl .as
px. A copy of the full text of the ordinance is also
available at the Office of the City Clerk, 34009
Alvarado-Niles Road, Union City, California,
during normal business hours. The City Clerk can
be reached by phone at 510-675-5348 if you
desire a copy of the full text of the ordinance sent
to you via email or by first class mail.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED by the
City Council of the City of Union City at a regular
meeting held on December 9, 2014, by the
following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Duncan,	Gacoscos,

Navarro, Vice Mayor Ellis, Mayor Dutra-Vemaci

NOES: None

ABSENT: None

ABSTAIN: None

APPROVED:

Isl Carol Dutra-Vernaci

CAROL DUTRA-VERNACI, Mayor

ATTEST:

Isl Renee Elliott

RENEE ELLIOTT, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Isl Benjamin T. Reyes II

BENJAMIN T. REYES II, City Attorney

12/16/14

CNS-2697816#

12/16/2014

Executed on: 12/22/2014
At Los Angeles, California

I certify (or declare) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and
correct.



Signature

* A

03625633*

A000003625633

STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

450 N STREET, SACRAMENTO. CALIFORNIA

(PO SOX 942879, SACRAMENTO. CALIFORNIA 94279-0027)

TELEPHONE (916) 324-1371
FAX (916) 324-3001
www.boe.ca.gov

February 11,2015

Dave Glasser, Director of Administrative Sendees

City of Union City

34009 Alvarado-Niles Road

Union City. CA 94587

SEN. GEORGE RUNNER (Ret.)
First Oistna. Lancaster

FIONA MA. CPA
Second District, San Francisco,

JEROME E. HORTON
Third Distnct, Los Angeles County

DIANE L. HARKEY
Fourth Distnct, Orange County

BETTY Y. YEE
State Controller

CYNTHIA BRIDGES
Executrve Director

Tax Area Code: 239

The Board of Equalization has received and accepted the Ordinance #800-14 for the extension
of the existing City of Union City transactions and use tax. A copy of the accepted and stamped
ordinance is enclosed for your records. The City's agreement becomes operative on April 1.
2015 and continues for 10 years until March 31, 2025.

Payments will continue to be transmitted each month. Estimated monthly advance payments for
the three months of each quarter will be made, followed by a final cleanup payment for the
actual balance of the tax collected, less administrative fees.

You may view your current statement of payment on the Board's website at
htti)s://efile. boe.ca.Mov/boew ebsen-ices/locaUur.isp.	Click the indicator opposite "District

Add-on Code (3 Digits)", and enter your 3-digit code (239) in the box opposite "Jurisdiction
Code". Click on "Send Request", and your statement will be displayed. For your convenience,
the Local Tax Statement page also contains a link to the Local Tax Allocation Calendar, which
is the schedule of payment dates.

If you have any questions regarding the above, please contact me at (916) 324-1371.

Sincerely,

Donna Puchalski
Business Taxes Specialists I
Local Revenue Allocation Unit

Enclosures

Accepted as to form and content
Date5_______________________

Accepted by	IESlTHU

ORDINANCE NO. 800-14

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
UNION CITY AMENDING SECTION 3.22.050 OF THE
UNION CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO EXTEND THE EXISTING, VOTER-APPROVED
MEASURE AA TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX ADMINISTERED BY
THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, the City of Union City (“Union City”), like many other cities, continues to
be impacted by what is commonly referred to as the “Great Recession” and past financial
takeaways from the State; and

WHEREAS, this current economic crisis has significantly reduced property and sales tax
revenue; and

WHEREAS, the revenue from property taxes and sales taxes has historically been Union
City’s most significant revenue source; and

WHEREAS, the substantial reduction in property and sales tax revenue has in turn
impacted the general fund; and

WHEREAS, the general fund is vital to Union City’s maintenance of essential services
such as police patrols, safe neighborhoods, and 9-1-1 rapid response times for fire and
emergency services; and

WHEREAS, Union City has implemented reductions in services; and

WHEREAS, Union City would like to avoid additional cuts to essential services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the continued loss of revenues from
property and sales tax revenue, without any additional revenue source, would result in the City
being unable to continue providing essential services to its citizens at a necessary and minimum
level; and

WHEREAS, at an election held on November 2, 2010, a majority of the voters of the
City of Union City approved a local funding measure that provided revenue that could not be
taken by the State commonly known as “Measure AA”; and

WHEREAS, Measure AA has been critical in maintaining essential City services, such
as 911 emergency response, police patrols, fire protection, youth, senior, after-school, library
and family recreational services, as well as programs for residents with special needs, among
others; and

WHEREAS, Measure AA is set to expire on the fourth anniversary of the operative date
thereof, unless extended by a majority of the voters of the City; and

Ordinance No. 800-14
Page 2 of 3

WHEREAS, the City of Union City has carefully evaluated how to deal with this
potential loss of funds, while continuing to provide the quality of life services that community
residents rely upon; and

WHEREAS, without Measure AA, the City of Union City will not be able to maintain
all existing programs, will not be able to adequately maintain infrastructure or facilities, and will
not be able to maintain the service levels currently in place; and

WHEREAS, a continuation of Measure AA with no increase in tax rate, will ensure that
all money raised will be controlled locally for local services, and cannot be taken away by the
State; and

WHEREAS, Measure AA is codified in Chapter 3.22 of the Union City Municipal Code.
Under section 3.22.150 ‘Termination Date,” Measure AA is set to expire at the end of March
2015, unless extended by the voters, which would deprive the City of a crucial source of funding
to prevent severe cuts to essential services such as police, fire, paramedic, library, streets, parks
and other services; and

WHEREAS, the proposed measure (Measure JJ) would extend the existing Measure AA
tax for 10 years on the sale of tangible personal property and the storage, use, or other
consumption of such property. The tax rate would continue to be one-half of one percent (0.5%)
(a one-half cent for each dollar) of the sales price of the property. The tax revenue would be
collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to the City. The tax would be in effect
for an additional 10 years , and would then expire automatically, unless extended by the voters.
The tax shall be approved if the measure receives at least a simple majority of affirmative votes.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF UNION CITY DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Recitals. The above recitals are true and correct and made a part of this
Ordinance.

SECTION 2. Amendment of Section 3.22.150 of the Municipal Code. Section 3.22.150
“Termination Date” of the Union City Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Section 3.22.150. Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on April I, 2025.”

SECTION 3. Severability. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance, including the application
of such part or provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby and shall
continue in full force and effect. To this end, provisions of this Ordinance are severable. The
City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase hereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases be held
unconstitutional, invalid, or unenforceable.

Ordinance No. 800-14
Page 3 of 3

SECTION 4. Publication and effective date. Within fifteen (15) days from and after adoption,
this Ordinance shall be published once in the Tri-City Voice, a newspaper of general circulation
printed and published in Alameda County and circulated in the City of Union City, in accordance
with California Government Code Section 36933. If this ordinance is approved by a majority of
the voters voting on the issue (Measure JJ) at the November 4, 2014 election, pursuant to
Elections Code Section 9217, this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the
Council declares the results of the election, and the tax shall become operative on the “operative
date,” as defined in this ordinance.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of Union City on Measure JJ on
November 4,2014:

YES:	8,920

NO:	3,177

ADOPTED by Declaration of the November 4, 2014 election results by the City Council of the
City of Union City at a regular meeting held on December 9, 2014, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Councilmembers Duncan, Gacoscos, Navarro, Vice Mayor Ellis, Mayor Dutra-

Vemaci

None

None

None

APPROVED:

Carol Dutra-Vemaci, Mayor



ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Benjamin T. Reyes II, City Attorney

ORDINANCE NO. 755-10

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF UNION CITY
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
AS APPROVED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF UNION CITY AT THE
GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD NOVEMBER 2, 2010

WHEREAS, the State has already taken $9.1 million from Union City to solve their own
budget crisis, and with a S17 billion deficit, are threatening to take more; and

WHEREAS, with local revenues down $4.4 million over the last four years due to State
raids and the recession, the City has had to cut critical services the community' needs and relies
on, including public safety, streets, libraries, and parks which keep our community strong; and

WHEREAS, the City has drastically reduced spending, including reducing staff by
almost 22% over the last two years (22 full time positions) freezing most employee salaries,
attempting to negotiate a two-tier retirement system, furloughing most employees, and using a
significant percentage of the City’s emergency reserves; and

WHEREAS, without additional revenue the City must make additional cuts to address
the remaining $1.9 million budget shortfall including, further personnel and programmatic
reductions; and

WHEREAS, with police and fire protection comprising over 67% of the City’s general
fund budget, the City' cannot avoid more cuts to public safety, resulting in longer 9-1-1
emergency response times; and

WHEREAS, without additional revenue, the City cannot provide the level of services
that its residents consider as priorities; and

WHEREAS, a locally-enacted revenue measure would protect and maintain Union City
services because the money is legally required to stay in our community and cannot be taken by
the State, providing locally controlled funds for local services; and

WHEREAS, at its June 29, 2010 meeting, the City Council adopted a budget for FY
2010-11 that recognized the need for additional revenue to maintain and preserve the level of
services desired by residents of the City; and

WHEREAS, at its July 27, 2010 meeting, the Council considered calting a special
election to seek voter approval of a proposed general transactions and use tax (or “sales tax”), as
authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9; and

WHEREAS, at that meeting, the City Council concluded that all of the information
presented indicated that, to obtain the revenue necessary to maintain and preserve service levels. 1

1

the Council should call an election to ask the voters of the City to approve a four (4) year local
transactions and use tax, the revenue from which could be used to support general municipal
services; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council determined that it w'as
appropriate to place a measure regarding a general transactions and use (sales) tax before the
voters at the November 2, 2010 general election; and

WHEREAS, the tax, if approved, would be imposed on the sale of tangible personal
property and the storage, use, or other consumption of such property. The tax rate would be one-
half of one percent (0.5%) (a one-half cent for each dollar) of the sales price of the property. The
tax revenue would be collected by the State Board of Equalization arid remitted to the City. The
tax would be in effect for four (4) years from the date it was collected, and would then expire
automatically, unless extended by the voters. The tax shall be approved if the measure receives at
least a simple majority of affirmative votes.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF UNION CITY AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT OF CODE

Title 3 of the Union City Municipal Code is hereby amended to add a new Chapter 3.22
and shall read as follows:

CHAPTER 3.22
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Section 3.22.010. Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the City of Union City Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance. The City of Union City hereinafter shall be called nCity." This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3.22.020. Operative Date.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth belowr.

Section 3.22.030. Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that
the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and

2

Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 3.22.040. Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

Section 3.22.050. Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon
all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%)
of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in
said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 322.060. Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business
of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include deliver)' charges, when such charges are subject to
the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales arc consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3

Section 3.22.070. Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this
ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

Section 3.22.080. Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.22.090. Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

(1)	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the Slate
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this Ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

(A)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property w'hich would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by
the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(B)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

4

(b)	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

Section 3.22.100. Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 3.22.110. Exemptions And Exclusions.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by deliver}' to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, deliver}' to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(A) With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
petjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

(B) With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty' of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish

the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property
for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in ■
making the sale of the property-, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

(7)	"A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5

6

(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a.transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.22.120. Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 3.22.130. Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State
or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 3.22.140. Citizens Oversight Committee.

There shall be a five-person committee of members of the public to review and report on the
revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax adopted by this Chapter. Prior to the operative
date, the City Council shall adopt a resolution establishing the composition of the committee and
defining the scope of its responsibilities. Also prior to the operative date, the City' Council shall
appoint at least a quorum of the members of the committee; the Council shall complete the
appointment of members of the committee by the end of fiscal year 2011.

Section 3.22.150. Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the fourth anniversary'
of the last day of the calendar quarter preceding the operative date.

SECTION 2. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE.

The findings for this ordinance in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act
0‘CEQA”) are the same as those set forth in the City’s Resolution No. 4030-10 calling for an
election on this Ordinance. The CEQA findings in Resolution No. 4030-10 are incorporated
herein by reference.

7

SECTION 3.

SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is
held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of Union City at the General
Municipal Election on November 2, 2010:

MEASURE AA	YES	8,608	NO	5,711 (Passed)

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and
shall take effect immediately.

ADOPTED by Declaration of the vote at the November 2, 2010 election by the City Council
of the City of Union City on December 14, 2010:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Dutra-Vemaci,	Fernandez,	Navarro, Vice Mayor Valle,

Mayor Green

NOES:

None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

WHATS HAPPENINGS TRi CFTY VOICE

RECEIVED

JAN 0 4 2011

. 33737 PASEO PADRE PKWY, FREMONT. CA 94538
Telephone (510) 494-1999 / Fax (510) 796-2462

Regina McEvoy	..	:	"

UNION CITY/CITY CLERK	CMS*:	2009131

34009 ALVARADO-NILES ROAD

UNION CITY, CA - 94587-4497

PROOF OF PUBLICATION

{2015.5 C.C.P.)

State of California	}

County of ALAMEDA	}	ss

Notice Type:	OHD	*	ORDINANCE	PUBLICATION

Ad Description: Ord 755-10

I am a citizen oi the United States and a resident of the State of California; I am
over the age of eighteen yearn, and not a party to or Interested in the above
entitled matter. 1 am ire principal clerk of the printer and publisher of the
WHATS HAPPENINGS TRI CITY VOICE * UNION CITY, a newspaper
pubished In the English language In the cities of UNION CITY and FREMONT,
and adjudged a newspaper of general emanation as defined by the laws of the
State of California by the Superior Court of the County of ALAMEDA, State of
California, under data of 05*02/2008, Case No. FG08374520. That the notice,
of which the annexed b a printed copy, has been published In each regular and
entire issue of said newspaper and not in any supplement thereof on the
following dates, to-wrt

12/21/2010

AN ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY COUNCIL OF THS

cjty of UMOti cmr.

IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS

AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE ..

BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
A3 APPROVED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY
OF UNION CITY AT THE
GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD

*ovaiaa)t*oio

WHEREAS, IT» Sica has ttoady Ofctri £5 1 •
mdlton From Uiton C2*y to to(htb own budge*
crisis, and wrth a $17 biton deiert, sit
(hntosmg to tzXt man; bxJ
WHEREAS, wcm local tvtuiti down $4.4
mtOon o*tf tit bat lour fttft dot to State raids
and rtottston. tha City baa had to cut cricai
esrvicas tho ocrmxrty roods and cat* oa
tocbidfeg pufcto safety, mate. ttxeriaa, and
parta which kttp our oorrmjntty strong; and
WHEREAS, tht Cfty has drEsJJcafy jvductd
tpondtog. hetodng reducing staff by almost 22%
ovar tha tai two ytewt <22 UI trm portion)
(tearing mg* tmpoytt saJwita, sJternpttng to
ntgottate a two-iar rttiitmant eytttrrv
furloughing most tmplqywti, and using a
ftgrvscam parconeaga of Iht Ctt/t tmtcgtncy
man**: and

WHEREAS, wthoul adeftignai favorite tho C*y
must maka addttonaf cute to address too
rtmalnhg $13 rtllor budget shortM incUlng
lurthtr ptnonrsl and programmatic reduction*;
and

WHEREAS, wthpoOca and fine protection
ooffiprttenq <*ar 07% of tha Ctty* gtnsraJ fend
budget tht City cannot avoid more cute to put£>c
safety, raJttng In bngar 9-1-1 tnwgancy
tetponn cmas; Bid

WHEREAS, wttwut oddttonai rtwua, te Cty
cannot prcwtdt tea leva I of arr/e*» mai Its
ctaidtnte ooraidtr as prtontoe; and
WHEREAS, a locfety-anactod revanua manure
woc*d protect and maintain Uhfcn Oty s*n4c*s
bacauaath* money b itgatty ftqdrad to stay n
our oomnxmty and cannol bt token by the State,
prteridkig locaCy control *d funds tor local
services; and

Executed on: 12/21/2010 *

At Los Angeles, California I

I certify (or declare) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is

coned.

WHEREAS, at tte June 29, 2010 matting, tht
Ctty ColtcJ adopted a budget for FY 2019-11
Chat laeogntead tha nttd tor addbonal raugnut to
maintain and pratarvt tfte Itvtl of ttnicas
dtabad by rasidenb d tha City: and
WHEREAS, at tte July 27. 2010 riwcAng. Iho
Ooimdl eorridarad Cflhng a epoctei atacdon id
saafc voter appwaJ ct a propotad general
tmactions 'and usa tax for *»>lci tgcf), as
auCicrtrtd by Ravmja and T treason Carte
true and * Stetson 7785.0: and -

WHEREAS, tt that matting, tha Cty Cornel
oondudtd toei ad of too hkrmctton preaanteti
. Mcated 0UL to obtain tha raw rut ntcassary tc
mat-tan and preatrvt nonce lavwb, tha Cound
tfiouti cal an alaoocn to ask Ehs voters of tht
Ctty to appro* a Four <4) year local transacborte

and use tax, the revenue bom which cotid be
used to support general nvraapcJ sar^ces; and
WHEREAS, on the baste of N foregoing, toe
City Counci dofarrrHrvd rial ft was appropriate to
plot* a measure regarding a general trarecnfans
and use (sales) to be tore the voter* cl toe
Novembers, 231&gcncrfa election; end
WHEREAS, toe tax, U approved, would be
imposed on the cafe of tangibto personal property
and fie storage. use, or otoer consumption fa
*ufa» property. The tax rate wwld be one-hall d
one percent (05%) (a one-ha/t cent far each
deter) of the seta price of fie property. The tax
revenue would be cotiected by the Stats Board of
Eqjaiixation and rammed to ths City. The tax
wodd be in effaci far four (4) yeara from the data
it w» collected, and wafad then expire
automatically, unless extended by the voter*. The
.to »teI be approved H the measure receives at
(east a ample majority of affjrnafrre voces.

S€ fT 0*0AIN ED BY THE CTTY COUNCIL Of
THE CITY OF UMQN CTTY AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT OF CODE

Tide 3 d fie Union City fcfanicipfa Code is hereby
emended to add a new Chapter 322 and shaJ
read os Mows:

CHAPTERS

TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
Section l_22JJta Tide

This ontoanoe fud be known as fie City fa
Union City Transactions and Uw Tex Ordnance.
The City of Union CRy hereinafter phafl be taflerf
*C#y.‘ This onJnanoe eha9 be eopSccbto fa the
tooorporated territory of the City.

Section X52.020. Operative Dele.	.	.

"Operative Date* means the firs? day of the-flrel
calendar quarter conmenong more far 110
days stiei the adopfion of this ordnance, fie dale
of such adoption being t* set forth below.

Section 3.22.030, Purpose.

This ordtoance is adopted to achieve tie
fplowing. among other purpose*. end (tracts than
the prevision* hereof be fateepreted fa order to
acocmpfoh fiose perpoees:

(a)	To Impose a retd transactions end use tax in
accordance with toe pmvfefane of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of
the Revenue aid Tnxatxn Code and Section
72$Sfi of Part 1.7 of Ohtiaton 2 whtoh authorizes
toe CHy to adopt (his to ordinance which shal be
operative if a majority of the elector* voting on toe
measure vote to ^Jipruve the mpc$.-t>an of the tax
at an etefafan cated far tost purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use to
ordinance that Incorporates pravisnna identical to
those of the Salas and Use Tax Lew of toe Stale
of California faaoiar as those provtefara are ngt
inconsistent wito fre requirements aid fcrretafocs
contained fa Part 1.6 of Dtvtetan2 d the Revenue
and Taxation Coda.

(c)	To adopt a re&fl transactions and use tax
ordinance that fa-posts a to arid provide* a
musm therefore fiat can be administered and

erflacted by toe State Board of Equalization fa a
manner that adapts itsati as hUy as practicable
tot and requires toe West postibte deviation from,
the existing ratfaeuy and sdmtotetratJv*
procedures fofiowad by toe State Board of
Equatiaaon in admintotoring and coflectfag toe
Cattemia State Sties and Uee Tam
(d> To adopt a retail transacdora and use to
orttoance that can be administered fa a manner
that ml be, to toe greatest degree possible,
oonateant with toe provisions of Part IjO of
Division 2 of toe Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize toe cost cf cotiecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at toe same time, irirtirlre
toe buden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under toe provisions d this
onSnance.

Section &22.04& Contract with State.

Prior to toe operative date, toe City shaft contract
wth toe $ta» Board of Equafaation fa periorm si
functions fafadara lb toe adrairueffatfon end
Operation of this transactions arte use tax
ordnance; prwfaed, tote B toe City shaft not have
contracted teto toe state Board cf Equafttatfan
prior to the operative dais, it shot nevertheless so
contract and fa such a case toe operative date
than be the fret day of to* first calendar quarter
ttSowng toe execution cf such a contract,
flection X22.0ta Transaction* Tax Rate.

For the prtwtiege of eefing tangible pereonel
property te ratal, a tax b hereby imposed *>on
all retzriare fa toe Incorporated territory fa to* C5Jy
at toe rate of one^iad of one ptroem (0-5%) of
toe gross receipts of any retailer From toe sale cf
alHangbie peraonfa property *osd at retail fa said
territory oci end after the operator terie fa tote
orttr-ence.

BecOon 3-22. ocCl Piece of Bale.

For toe purposes d this ordnance, el re ted tales
are consummated te toe place d business of Ihe
rateAer tntew Che tangible personal property sfad
l* delve red by toe retailer or his agent to an out*
ofretat* destination or to a ccr.nui carrier for
daflwy to an oteHriatete destination. The pots
receipts from fax* sates farefl faQfade deftrery
ttoarge*. when such cna*ge* are subjed to to*
state sates and use tax. regarded* of me place to
wtecn dekvary Is made, fa toe event a ratal ar has
no permanent place of business fa toe State or
ha* more than one place d business, the place
or paces at which toe rotarf sates are
consummated shaft be faaerrfaned unoar nies
tnd regutetemto be prescribed *nd adopted by
the State Board of ExjreftzatiOrt.

Section yzum. Uee Tax Rate.

An excise tax b hereby Imposed on ft# faorege,
use or Otoer consjmpoon in the C4y of tangbe .
personal property puroheaoc from any retsOaron'
and efter me operative dale of this pnfranc* for
Stonge, use or otoer canaurpson fa said territory
el toe rale of one-hal of one percent (06%) of
the satee price of toe property. The sates price
fate! tocfaoo delivery chargee whew tutto charges
are subject to state sates or use tax re^nlees cf
toe dape to which daLNery Is made.

Secrikxi UZ2J0V1 Adoption Qt Provtaton* Di
State Low.

Except as otoerertse provided fa tols orelnance
and except fasdar as they are faconatetant ertto
the previsions of Part 1.6 of DMsion 2 of me
Revenue and Taxatton Carte, ell of toe provisions
of Part 1 (commencing wtih Section 6001) fa
Dfasian 2 erf the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby idoptad and made a part of tols
ordinance as toough fuOy set forth herein.

Becdon L22JOOO. UmftaUom On Adoption Of
State Lew And Coiedion OtUee Ten*.

In adopting the prortfaora of Pert 1 of DMaon 2
cf toe Revenue end Taxatfan Code:

(a)	Wherever toe Stale of CeAfocnta o named or
refetred to as the taxrg agency, toe name of tote
Cfar Bhel be substituted toerefoi. However, toe
substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word "State1 is used as a part cf to* fide
of the Stats Corcrofter: State Treasurer, State
BuarJ of Control, State Board of Equaizstioa
State Treasury, or the Corutlution of the Start fa
CaBomte;

(2)	The reetd fa that subetituoon wofad require
action to be ctfcen by or sgafast tote Cfty or any
agency, effleer, or employee therefa rather than
by or against the State Board of Equalization, fa
performing toe Lrcbons merdorrt to - toe
edmirrfstration or operation fa tote Or&nance.

(3)	fa tooee cacrion*. faefafang, but not
necessafay btciied to section* referring lo toe
exterior boundartsa fa the State fa Cztfomia.
where toe raeuti of to* eubsttutien would b* toe

(A)	Provide an exemption from this tax wtto
respect to oertein sales, storage, use or other
conaaoption fa tangible persons! property which
woif d not otoentess be ewnpt from tote tax wftle
such tsiee, storage, use or otoer consumption
remain wtofect to tax by the State index the
provisions fa Pari 1 fa Division 2 fa toe Revenue
mo Taxation Code, or;

(B)	fanpoee tote tax wito respect to certain sates,
storage, toe a otoer consmpban fa tesa&e
pereonai property which vreufcJ not be subject to
tax ty toe state uniter toe said prevision fa tip
oode.

(4)	tn Section* 6701. 6702 (except to toe last
eentance thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737. 6787 or
6828 fa toe Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word "Cay* shea be subctiajted far toe
word "State" to toe phrase ’retafler engaged to
buekwsa to tote State "in Section 6209 ard to toe
definition fa that phrase to Section 6203.
section 3J2.iga Permit Not Required.

If e eeAen permit hu beer issued to e rerafter
under Section 6067 fa me Reverve and Taxation
Code, bo ibddhtonaJ transactor's permit shell not
be requked by this dwftranee.
fiacdort 3^2.11 a Exemption* And Cxduefari*.

(a)	There she! be eefauded from the cneesuio fa
too transactfarie tax end the uee tax the amoufa
fa any tales tax or uu tax Srposed by toe Scare
fa CafiforrSa or by any city, city end caray, or
county pueuant fa the Bradiey-Buxns Unifarm
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount fa
(toy etfae<efanfatet*rad tranaacborts or use tax.

(b)	There am exempted from the computation fa
too amount fa transactions tax the gross receipts
from:

(1)	Sales fa tangtbto personal property, otoer Han
tufa or peirotoum products, to operator* fa arcrah

t

to be uud or conewmed prifdipaEy outside toe
county n which N uM d made end dtectiy end
txciewaiy ^ M toe of such aircraft« common
camera d persons or property under fro apriority
of tie laws of tvs Stale, the United States, or any
foreipi gcvemrrwnt.

(2)	Sales of properly to be used outside tie Ccy
when d eft toed to a pari ottokte the Crfy,
pursuant to toe contract d sale, by detrory to
such path by the rentier or his nperrt, or by
defrery by toe retailer to a carrier for shipment to
a assignee at such point. For the purposes of
the paragraph, defivery to a point outside the Civ
sftafl be sefislsd:

(A)	With rasped to vehicles (other than
comma rod verities) eutfect to rogebaton
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing w*to Section
4000) of Division 3 ot the Vehicle Cods, aircraft
feensed in campiaiK* wflh Section 21411 of toe
Pubic UtltJa Code, arc undocumented veoeb
registered under Dv/tsjon 3.5 (commencing with
Section 8840] of toe Vehkde Code by registration
to an cuKrf-C*y address and by 6 ctectoratcn
under penalty ot perjury, eJgnod by the buyer,
string that such address is, in tact his or her.
principal pface of restoenca: an d

(B)	With respect to commertof vehicles, by
registration to a place of txahtn ounrf-Ctfy end
decteradon under penalty d pwr*Fy, allied by
the buyof. rut toe veftccK ml be operated tram
that address.

(3)	The eeie of tan£bte personal properly If the
eerier is obtgated to furnish toe property for a
freed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to toe operative date of this otftaanc*.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property whitto la
a continuing esie of such property, tor any penod
Of Sro® tor wtich the lessor » otiigjted to l»sa
toe property for en amount feed by the lease
prior to the operate* Cate of tote ordinance. ■

(5)	For toe purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4)
erf toil section, toe sate tv lease of tangible
personal property than be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease tor any
period of lime tor vtoieft any party to toe ccrriaci
or tees# haa the L*u»ndroomi right to tarmtoote
the contract or lease upon nofioe. whether or not
Such rigtol * esercisad.

(e) Thera are exempted from toe woo tax snpoeed
by tote ordtoanoe, toe storage, use or atoer
consumption to tote CMy of tangible peroend
property:

(1)	The gro&s receipts from toe-sale of which
have beer subject to a transactions tax under any
ttOte-udrrwestered transactions and use to
ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or peodeum products
purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consorted by such operators dtoactfy and
exclusively to toe usa of such aircraft aa oanmen
carriers of persons or property for hira or
compensation under a cert Vats of pubGc
conventerice and necessAy Issued pursuant to
toe laws of this State, the Urtted States, or ary
foreign government. This exemption is to sddtton
to toe exemptions provided to Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of toe
State of Caittorraa.

(3)	• toe purchaser b oMpatod to purchase toe
property tor a feed price pursuant to a cuitroa
entered into prior to toe operative date of tote
ordtoance.

(4)	B toe possession of, or toe exercise of any
right or power over, toe tan^tto personal ■
property arises inter e lease which b a
continuing purchase of such properly tor any
period of Cme to which the lessee is obfcgatedto
tease toe property la an amount feed by p base t
prior to the operative date of this ocdtoance.

(5)	For toe purposes of tubporagrephe (3) end (4).
of f» section, storage, use, - or- other
consmrarftoa. or possession of, or exerbbe of any
ughi or pewter over, tangible personal property
trial be deemed not to be obligated purauantco a
contract or lease tor any period of time tor which
any parly to the contract or lease has toe
unccrv&tonal ryn to terminate toe-contrad or
tease upon notice, whether or not such rght Is
exercised.

16) Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a
retailer engaged r> business to toe City ehal not
be required to oded use tax from the purchaser
of tangible personal property, tsrfess toe rataSer
ships or deRvera toe property nto toe Cfcy or
partidpatee wthm the Cdy in making toe sate-of.
toe property, hetodtog; but not Irrtoed. to,
eotidtevg or recehteg toe order, atoer dJresdy or
toef ractfy. at a ptece of business of toe rotator in
toe City or through any representative, agent -
canvasser, saUdter. subskiasy, or person In the
Cay under toa authority erf toe rotator.

(7) 'A rotator engaged In bustoass in toe City*
ttefl atso inctoae any ratafter of any of to#
knowing: uehetee subject to regretrailon purauam
to Chapter 1 (consnonting w#h Sacbon 4000) of ■
Omsxjn 3 of toe Vehtete Code, aircraft Bcensed In
comptonoe won Section 21411 of toe Pubic
UtSties Code, or indocuTtented vessels
registered wider OMscn 3.5 (ccmmenang with
Section 8840) cf toe VeOcte Coda That rotator
tfiad be roqrirod to colect uoe tax from any
purchaser vtoo rogstero cr Loertees toe vehicle,
vessel, or are rah tt an address in the City.

(d)	Any person subject Id use tax under tote
ordtoance may crodt against toat tax any
tranaaerfons tax or retinburaemonl for
transaefate tax paid to • dttrirt tropoeJng. or
rotator fcsbm tor a transeoions tax purauere to .
Peri of Dtvfccr 2 cf toe Ravanua end
Taxation Code with rasped to the sale to toe
person of the property toe atorag*. use or other
consumption of which Is aubject to the use tax
SacttonX22.12Q. Amendments.

AM amendments subsequent to toe effective, date
of too ordnance to Pert 1 oi OMston 2 of toe
Revenue and Taxation Code rotating to tales and'
use tsxas end which era not toconmtont ento
Port 1.6 and Pari 1.7 of Orw*)on2 of t>e Revenue
and Taxation Cooe. end erf amendments to Ran
1 £ and Part 1.7 of Drirtsion 2 of toe Revenue and
Taxation Coda, aha! automatically become a port
of tote ordinance, provided however, toot no such
amendment ehal operate sossio tried toe rale
o# tax imposed by tots onfirenoa.

Section 122.130. Efljotntog CoCecOon
FoiTrfdOan.

No toptetion or writ of mandate or otiiar teg^ or
equtaCie proow *hai teaoe m ary »u3, action or
pmceedng in any court against toe State or toe
C#y, or oganst any officer d the State or the Oty,
to pravenl or erfcin the DoOecbon under thte
ordnance, or Port 1-fl of Djsrtaioo 2 of toe
Revenue end Taxation Coda, of any tax or any
amount d tax roqiired to be coieofed.

Section 3-22.14tx Crtlzene.. Oversight
Coatmmee,

Thera rtterf be a nveperaon commiaee of
members ©i tn# pUbtic to review end roport on toe
revenue end agtendturo of funds from the tax
odoptsd by .tois Chapter. Prior to the operative
date, the Ctty Cotncrf ehal adopt a resolution
•stabfehtng toe compoction of too cormttoe. .
and defining (he ecope of its responsfeffties. Also
prior to toe operative date, toe Oily Counci *hal
pppotot at least a quorum of toe members of the
committee, the Could ehal complete toe
apporrtnerrt cf members of toe oramtetee by toe
end cf Bscaf year 2011.

Section 3£2.tSQ. Ternti notion Date.

The eutoorty to levy toe tax Imposed by tote
ordnance shaS expire on toe fourth anrwerBary
of tot last day of toe calendar quarter procetfrg
the operative date.

SECTION li BfVtROtWEffTAL COtfPUAHCE.
The tfefngs tor tote oTOtoance to oomptianca with
the Galt arms Emrlronmentel CiisCty Act
(*CEQA*) are me same as tooee eei forth in toe
Ctyi Resototion No. 4030ID caflng tor. an.
election on tote Ortinanc*. The CEQA tndtoga tn
Rescfcrflnn f*> 4030-10 ora freorperatad herato
by reference.

SECTION 3. SEVERABOJTV.

If any prwteton of tofs orfinance or toe
appfrceson toeract to any person or circumstance
te-heto tovakd, the remainder of the ordnance
and.toe apfrication-of euoft provision to other
persons or dreumstenoe* ehteJ not be aHacted

SECTION 4. CFfECTIVt DATE.	.

APPROVED by toe fdewing vote of toe People
d toe Cty of Union Cfey at the General Municipal
Efection on Noventoer 2.201ft
MEASURE AA YQ MQ8 NO B.T11 <P«*eed)

TNs ordnence refetes to toe levying and
wSecting of the CHy transactions arid use texts
and chs9 taka effect hsmedatefy,

ADOPTED by Doctor coot of toe vote at toe
November 2,2C10 election by toe City Counca of
the City of (huon Cfty on December 14.201ft

AYES; Counclmembare - Outra-Vemaci,
Fernandez, end Navarro, vice Mayor Vase.
Moyer Green
NOES: Non#

ASSENT: None ..

ABSTAIN None

APPROVED; .

/t/lfaritOraen
MARKGREBA Mayor.

ATTEST:

/if Renee EEott

RENEE ELLIOTT, C*y Oort.