From SmartVoter

Measure A

To Authorize a Special Parcel Tax
Fallen Leaf Lake Community Services
District

2/3 Approval Required

To continue current level of emergency medical andfire
protection services, shall existing Fire Special Tax, set
annually by the CSD Board, not to exceed per unit,
subject to maximum inflation adjustment of 1.5% per
year, established as: Unimproved 0.5 unit; improved 1.0
unit; Stanford Sierra Camp 40 units; and shall Annual
Appropriations Limit be extendedfour years to allow for
expenditure of these and any subvention funds received
from El Dorado County.

Impartial Analysis from El Dorado County Counsel

FALLEN LEAF LAKE COMMUNITY SERVICES
DISTRICT MEASURE A This measure, if approved by
2/3 of the voters voting on the measure, would authorize a
special tax on parcels of real property in the Fallen Leaf
Lake Community Services District ("District") to be used
solely for the costs of providing current level of
emergency medical and fire protection services ("Fire
Special Tax") within the District.

This special tax for parcels within the boundaries of the
District is a renewal of the existing Fire Special Tax that
would be in the amount "not to exceed $660.00 per unit,
subject to maximum inflation adjustment of 1.5% per
year, established as: unimproved 0.5 unit: improved 1.0
unit; Stanford Sierra Camp 40 units" and the "Annual
Appropriations limit would allow for expenditure of these
and any subvention funds that may be received from El
Dorado County." The special tax authorized by this
measure is a renewal of the existing Fire Special Tax that
is used for the same purposes and expires, by its terms, on
July 27, 2014. The Fire Special Tax would commence on
July 27, 2014, and would be extended for four years. The
Fire Special Tax would replace the existing benefit
assessment of $595.00 currently imposed on improved
parcels, $297.50 on improved parcels and $23,800.00 on

Stanford Sierra Camp, that are subject to a maximum
inflation adjustment of 1.5% , used for the same purposes.

The special tax will be listed as a separate item on the
county property tax bill for each affected parcel of land,
and will be collected in the same way as the general
property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection,
and enforcement of county property taxes, including the
provisions for penalties and the procedures for sale of the
property in case of delinquency, shall also apply to the
special tax.

State law requires the proceeds from the special tax be
applied only to the identified purposes, and that an annual
report be made indicating the amount of funds collected
and expended and the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded by the proceeds. This measure
was placed on the ballot by Resolution 2013-8 of the
governing body of the District.

This measure requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more
of all voters voting on the measure in order to pass. A
"YES" vote is a vote to authorize the special tax provided
in the measure. A "NO" vote is a vote against the special
tax provided in the measure. Edward L. Knapp - El
Dorado County Counsel

Full Text of Measure A

RESOLUTION 2013-8

RESOLUTION TO SUBMIT TO THE VOTERS RENEWAL OF THE EXISTING FIRE
SPECIAL TAX

WHEREAS, the Fallen Leaf Lake Community Services District ("District") is a Community
Services District organized and existing pursuant to Government Code Section 61000 and
following; and

WHEREAS, the District through its voters on July 27, 2010, approved a Fire Special Tax for
properties within the District's boundaries; and

WHEREAS, that prior Fire Special Tax shall expire, by its terms, four years after being
imposed, which occurs July 27, 2014; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of District wish to submit to the voters for approval a
renewal of that Fire Special Tax;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that on behalf of the Fallen Leaf Lake Community
Services District, the President of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to request that the
Elections Department of the County of El Dorado conduct during the Primary Election on June
3, 2014 for the purpose of submitting to the voters of the District a ballot measure to extend the
Special Fire Tax.

RESOLVED FURTHER, that the Board hereby approves the following language for the ballot
measure:

"To continue current level of emergency medical and fire protection services, shall existing Fire
Special Tax, set annually by the CSD Board, not to exceed $660 per unit, subject to maximum
inflation adjustment of 1.5% per year, established as: Unimproved 0.5 unit; improved 1.0 unit;
Stanford Sierra Camp 40 units; and shall Annual Appropriations Limit be extended four years to
allow for expenditure of these and any subvention funds received from El Dorado County."

RESOLVED FURTHER, that the President of the Board is authorized to make changes in the
language of the ballot measure as may be suggested by counsel to the District or to comply with
law, provided that the substance of the proposed ballot measure is not materially changed.