Sonoma County Library Sales Tax
Increase, Measure M (November 2014)

| Text of measure

Ballot question

The question on the ballot:!1]

Library Improvement Act: Shall the Sonoma County Library Improvement Act be
implemented by imposing a one-eighth cent (0.125%) sales tax for ten years to
restore and enhance library hours and services to benefit children, seniors and all
residents of the County; with an annual audit to be conducted to ensure that funds
are spent as mandated by the voters; and an increase in spending limit to allow use
of the revenue?121

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure M:111

The County of Sonoma has proposed a retail transactions and use tax (sales tax) of
one-eighth of one cent (0.125%) to fund the Sonoma County Library, a joint powers
agency in which the County and all Sonoma County cities are members. The tax
would be levied for no more than ten years. State law requires voter approval before
imposition of a sales tax.

Proceeds from the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
the purposes set out in Expenditure Plan attached to the measure. Those purposes
include preserving and enhancing existing libraries; restoring and enhancing service
hours at library branches; providing classes, materials, and services to children and
young adults; and acquiring new technology and providing materials in all existing
and forthcoming formats. The measure states that revenues collected from the tax
shall be used only to supplement, and not supplant, existing Library funding.

Each year the Library Director would report the amount of funds collected and the
status of projects funded by the tax revenue.

The tax would be imposed on all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated
County for the selling of tangible personal property at retail, subject to certain
exemptions and exclusions identified in the measure. If approved, the sales tax
would apply only if the California Legislature agrees to raise the sales tax limit
applicable in the County by at least the amount of the proposed tax.

If two-thirds of the voters in the County who vote on this measure vote “Yes,” the
measure will pass and the sales tax will be levied.121

—Jeffrey M. Brax, Deputy County Counsel^

Arguments in favor

The following was submitted as the official arguments in favor of Measure M:u

A Yes vote will reopen our libraries on Mondays and expand evening and weekend
hours.

A Yes vote creates young readers and supports kids in school by maintaining
children’s programs and services, including classes, storytimes, homework help,
and literacy activities that educate and entertain our youngest residents.

A Yes vote benefits seniors by enhancing the print book collection, funding
educational and humanities-related events, and extending library services to
homebound residents and underserved communities.

Sonoma County Library serves nearly 500,000 residents with 11 full-service
libraries, two rural stations, a specialized Wine Library, and a renowned Genealogy
and Local History collection. Approximately 2 million people visit our libraries
each year, checking out over 31/2 million books, DVDs, audio books, and eBooks.
62,000 children attend storytimes, events, and educational classes annually. 98% of
Library funding comes from property taxes. Library property tax revenue declined
significantly during the Great Recession, resulting in cuts to the book budget,
unpaid employee furloughs, benefit reductions, unfilled staff vacancies, and a 25%
cut in library hours of operation. Our library system now has one of the lowest per
capita library expenditures in the state.

A Yes vote results in strong financial accountability. Measure M mandates citizens’
oversight, an annual independent financial audit, and an annual report to the County
Board of Supervisors, detailing Measure M funds collected and projects funded. All
revenues must be used exclusively for library purposes and cannot be reallocated by
the State.

A Yes vote on this limited-term measure allows time to establish additional funding
sources from community organizations and the private sector.

A Yes vote also prevents additional cuts in library hours, collections, and services.

Vote Yes on M and return our libraries to service levels comparable to other North
Bay Libraries. A healthy County Library benefits all residents of Sonoma County.^

—Brett W. Lear, Jean F. Schulz, J. Forth, Paul Heavenridge and Elaine Carlson111

No official arguments were submitted in opposition to
Measure M.