CITY OF ISLETON
MEASURE D

DFor a period of five (5) years shall a one-half
cent transactions and use tax, to be used solely
to fund Public Safety and Parks and Recreation
projects and services for the City of Isleton, be adopted?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

Prepared by City Attorney

The City Council of the City of Isleton has placed Measure
D on the November 4, 2014 ballot. California Revenue and
Taxation Code section 7285.91 authorizes the City Council
to levy a special transactions and use tax via ordinance,
provided the ordinance establishing the tax is ultimately
approved by the voters. Measure D would, if approved by
voters, raise revenue for specific services in the City of
Isleton by establishing a 0.50 percent (i.e., 1/2 cent) trans-
actions and use tax for a period of five years.

A transactions and use tax is administered by the State
Board of Equalization. Once established, a transactions
and use tax is allocated to the city where any goods are
delivered or placed into use. The transactions and use tax
that would be established by Measure D is also considered
to be a "special tax."

As a "special tax," the revenue generated by Measure D
may only be used for specific purposes. The ballot question
for Measure D states that the 0.50 percent transactions and
use tax will be used "solely to fund Public Safety and Parks
and Recreation projects and services." Because this trans-
actions and use tax would be a "special tax," the City of
Isleton would be required to use tax proceeds only for these
services.

Also, because Measure D is a "special tax," it will only be
approved if 2/3 (over 66.66%) of voters vote in favor of it. If
approved, Measure D would become operative on April 1,
2015, and would remain in effect until March 31, 2020, a
period of five years. The tax would expire at the end of the
five-year period unless it is reauthorized by a majority of the
voters at a future election that occurs prior to the expiration
of the tax.

A "YES" vote is a vote to approve the ordinance levying the

0.50 percent transactions and use tax. A "NO" vote is a
vote against the tax.

s/JeffreyA. Mitchell, City Attorney

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE D

For a period of five (5) years shall a one-half cent transac-
tions and use tax, to be used solely to fund Public Safety and
Parks and Recreation projects and services for the City of
Isleton, be adopted?

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

This is a special tax to pay for public safety and parks and
recreation. It will pay for law enforcement, fire protection,
and park maintenance, etc.

The Great Recession has left us with declining federal and
state funding and declining property tax due to lower
assessed values. This has made it a real challenge to pro-
vide the most basic of services. We have had to reduce city

staff; we have disbanded our police force and contracted
with Sacramento County Sheriff Dept. We have had to defer
maintenance on our streets, city buildings and storm drains.
The Fire Department has aging fire fighting and protective
equipment that is well past it useful life and needs replace-
ment.

The state and county keep most of the sales tax collected in
Isleton with only one cent per dollar spent coming back to
Isleton. With the passage of this measure we will get back
one and one-half cents per dollar spent, there by increasing
our sales tax revenue by fifty percent. The increase will be
for a term of five years.

Please approve this measure and help move this town
towards prosperity.

s/Robert Jankovitz
Vice Mayor

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE D WAS FILED

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D WAS FILED