CITY OF ATASCADERO
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE F-14

ORDINANCE NO. 581
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ATASCADERO
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Atascadero Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance. The city of Atascadero hereinafter shall be called "City." This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the
date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it
shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the
first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5.	TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible

personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the City at the rate of 0.5 % of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all

91

tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of
the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business
in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use
or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on
and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of 0.5 % of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby
adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not
be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

92

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase
in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's
permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States,
or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer
or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point.
For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal
place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the

93

unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate
of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue

94

and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that
no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.	There	shall be a

permanent citizens’ advisory committee called the “Citizens’ Oversight Committee” (hereafter
“Committee”) which shall annually review revenues and expenditures from the collection of the
tax. The committee shall have 9 members. Seven members shall be appointed to the
committee by individual Atascadero community groups. Two members shall be appointed by
the City Council. Appointees shall be residents of the City; however, no member of the
Committee shall be an elected official.

Section 15. ANNUAL ROAD REPORT. An Annual Road Report shall be prepared by
the City no later than the last day of the sixth month following the end of each City fiscal year.
The Report shall be submitted to the Citizens’ Oversight Committee for review. The Committee
will submit their findings and conclusions to the City Council. The Report will also be made
available to the public. The Annual Road Report shall detail the prior fiscal year’s activities
related to the retail transaction and use tax. The Report shall include revenues generated by
the Transaction and Use Tax, expenditures (in summary form), funds carried over from
previous fiscal years, and any remaining funds to be carried over for expenditure in subsequent
fiscal years.

Section 16. INDEPENDENT ANNUAL FINANCIAL AUDIT. The amount generated by
this new general purpose revenue source and how it was used shall be included in the annual
audit of the City’s financial operations by an independent certified public accountant.

Section 17. TWELVE-YEAR SUNSET.	The	authority	to	levy a retail

transaction and use tax shall expire twelve years from the operative date of this ordinance,
unless extended by the voters of the City in the manner provided by law.

Section 18. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect 10 days after the election
results are declared by the City Council (CA Elections Code §9217). The operative date
(Section 2) will be the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days
after the adoption of this ordinance, which will be April 1, 2015.

Section 19. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 20. PUBLISHING OF ORDINANCE. A summary of this ordinance, approved by
the City Attorney, shall be published twice: at least five days prior to its final passage in the
Atascadero News, a newspaper published and circulated in the City of Atascadero, and; before
the expiration of fifteen (15) days after its final passage, in the Atascadero News, a newspaper
published and circulated in the City of Atascadero. A copy of the full text of this ordinance shall
be on file in the City Clerk’s Office on and after the date following introduction and passage and
shall be available to any interested member of the public.

95

On June 24, 2014, the Atascadero City Council voted unanimously to place Measure F-14 on
the ballot. Measure F-14 asks the voters to enact a one-half of one percent ('A of 1%)
transactions and use tax rate on retail sales within the City of Atascadero. If approved, this tax
will add 50 cents to each $100 of taxable sales.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City of Atascadero to
levy a General Transactions and Use Tax (i.e. sales tax) so long as the tax is approved by two-
thirds of the City Council and a majority of the voters voting in an election on that issue. If
approved by the voters, the tax would become effective on April 1, 2015.

The proposed tax would be a “general tax,” meaning that revenues raised from the tax would
go into the City’s general fund to fund any lawful City program, improvement, or service,
including, but not limited to, the repair of neighborhood roads and aging roadways and other
vital City services. The City would not be required to use the revenues raised by the measure
for any special purpose or for any particular program or service.

Measure F-14 contains the following fiscal accountability provisions to assist citizens in
assessing if the additional sales tax revenues have been used in meeting community priorities:
1) a permanent “Citizens’ Oversight Committee” shall annually review revenues and
expenditures from the collection of the tax; 2) an Annual Road Report shall be prepared by the
City no later than the last day of the sixth month following the end of each City fiscal year and
submitted to the Citizens’ Oversight Committee for review, and the Committee will submit their
findings and conclusions to the City Council; and 3) the amount generated by the new revenue
source and how it was used shall be included in the annual audit of the City’s financial
operations by an independent certified public accountant.

The proposed tax will sunset and be repealed in twelve (12) years and could not be collected
after that time unless a majority of the voters voting in an election on that issue approves an
extension or reauthorization of the tax.

The proposed tax would be paid in addition to the current sales tax. Like the current sales tax,
the proposed tax would be imposed upon the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail
within the City of Atascadero, as well as upon the storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer within the City of Atascadero. The current sales
tax rate within the City (including state and local sales taxes) is seven and one-half percent
(7.5%). If this measure is approved by voters, the total sales tax within the City of Atascadero
will be eight percent (8%). The proposed tax would be applied equally to residents and
nonresidents making purchases in the City of Atascadero.

si BRIAN PIERIK

City Attorney, City of Atascadero

96

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F-14

Atascadero is rapidly approaching a road crisis in our neighborhoods. Over the last
several years we have not been able to devote adequate resources toward the maintenance of
our roads.

Over Fifty-Six (56%) percent of our City maintained roadways are currently in fair or poor
condition meaning that they are badly in need of repair and maintenance. If we do not come
together as a community to address this problem our roads will continue to rapidly deteriorate.

To address this need the City Council unanimously put Measure F-14 on the ballot to
increase the local sales tax one half cent for twelve years. The funds raised will be used in
Atascadero for the maintenance and repair of our neighborhood roads.

Safeguards have been put into the measure to ensure that the funds are used wisely and
only used to fix our roads including:

Measure E-14 was put on the ballot so Atascadero can direct that the money will be
spent to fix our neighborhood roads.

A citizen Advisory Committee will be created to oversee how the funds are spent.

An annual roads report and an annual independent audit will be prepared and
distributed to residents.

The additional sales tax will “sunset” (be eliminated) after twelve years.

The funds cannot be seized by the state and they must be spent locally in our
community.

The State and the County do not have the resources to maintain our roads. We must
come together as a community and solve this problem.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure F-14.

Visit www.fixatascaderoroads.com to find out more.

si Tom O'Malley, Mayor

si Roberta Fonzi, City Council Member

si Grigger Jones, Chairman, Atascadero Chamber of Commerce

si Edith “Edie” Knight

si Edward A. Veek

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F-14

Proponents of additional taxes contend: "We have not been able to devote adequate
resources toward maintenance of our roads"... Now, there's the rub. The "We" is the very
council that allocates the millions of dollars of the city's budget. Instead of using that money to

maintain the streets FIRST... it is used to satisfy other political demands.like an unearned

six figure plus send off to a departing police chief or building street medians only to rip them
out.

Tax and tax; spend and spend! The primary obligation of the elected council is to marshal
the city's resources wisely. When those elected to administer the millions annually choose to

satisfy constituents that want the money for other agendas..guess what? Indeed, those

assets will not be used to repair "roadways ..in., poor condition". The council would rather
collect higher taxes than make a hard decision; it shifts the guilt for deteriorating infrastructure
to stingy you, the taxpayer. Can we really believe that the "state" can't confiscate locally
collected taxes in a city where a still unbuilt Walmart store started in 2007 outlaws convenient
commercial plastic bags, and allows streets to deteriorate? "We must come together as a
community and solve this problem." We can! The solution is to spend tax money on streets -
FIRST. We need leadership with integrity to do the job, not just impose higher taxes. Vote
NO.

si John Paul Daly

97

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F-14

Better roads good! Higher taxes bad! Can Atascadero voters reconcile this dilemma?
YES, they can.

Political leadership with integrity can direct the city's resources to establish priorities that
best serve the public.

Streets should be at the top of that list. Everybody uses and depends on them.

But the roads lack a vocal constituency. No throng of parents wanting playgrounds, no
employee unions, and no organization of business or labor show up to defend streets. So the
council allocates money to appease the loudest demands. Roads, arguably the most
ubiquitous and important service for which the city is responsible, ends up with a paltry 8% of
the annual budget.

Atascadero voters deserve decent streets and officials with the spine to protect them. The
voters do not deserve yet higher taxes. Please vote NO on Measure F-14.

si John Paul Daly

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F-14

Atascadero is at a crossroads. Our neighborhood roads are rapidly failing and our
community does not have the resources necessary to fix and maintain them. Unless our
community comes together to fix our neighborhood roads they will continue to rapidly fail due to
deferred maintenance.

Saying that more revenue is not needed and that City Hall should just do more with less is
not an answer to our neighborhood road maintenance problem. The State and the County do
not have the resources to maintain our roads. We must come together as a community and
solve our road maintenance problem together.

The funds raised through Measure F-14 have strict local controls and will be used in
Atascadero for the maintenance and repair of our neighborhood roads. The funds cannot be
taken by the state for any reason and they must be spent locally in our community.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure F-14 so that Atascadero has the resources to fix
and maintain our neighborhood roads.

Visit www.fixatascaderoroads.com to find out more.

si Brian Sturtevant, Mayor Pro Tern
si Bob Wilkins, First Atascadero Mayor
si Barbie Butz

98