COUNTY OF FRESNO "SAVE OUR ZOO,” MEASURE Z
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

"Save Our Zoo" Measure. To help ensure survival of the Chaffee Zoo by
Droviding necessary funding to repair and restore the zoo, bring back large
animal exhibits, further revitalize the zoo, and preserve the zoo’s Species
Survival Plan and ongoing Education Program, shall Fresno County voters
approve a one-tenth of one percent sales tax for ten years with ail net
proceeds dedicated exclusively to the Chaffee Zoo?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

State law authorizes the Fresno County Board of Supervisors to establish a
special purpose authority, which, in turn, may propose a special countywide
sales tax ("transactions and use tax") to be expended exclusively for the
support of zoos, zoological facilities, and related zoological purposes within
the County of Fresno. The tax proposal must be at the rate of 0.1 percent.

The Fresno County Board of Supervisors has adopted a resolution creating
the Fresno County Zoo Authority. The Authority, in turn, has adopted an
ordinance proposing a special countywide sales tax at the rate of 0.1% for 10
years. If the tax were approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, the tax would go into effect on April 1, 2005, or as soon as possible
thereafter, and would expire 10 years later, or no earlier than March 31,2015.

The proceeds of this tax would be used exclusively to support the Chaffee
Zoo. The expenditure plan in the ordinance provides for the following uses:

1.	The tax proceeds would be distributed to the Chaffee Zoo as long as
the Authority was satisfied with the Zoo's use of previously distributed
funds, and with the City of Fresno's compliance with the requirements
in the ordinance for its financial support of the Zoo.

2.	The Chaffee Zoo would be required to spend a minimum of two-thirds
of the funds distributed for capital improvement projects approved by
the Authority Board, but could spend up to one-third of the funds
distributed for operations and maintenance of the Zoo.

The tax revenues would also be used to reimburse the County for election
costs and for the fees charged by the state in administering the tax, and to
pay administrative costs, capped at 2% per year.

The Fresno County Zoo Authority would be responsible for the specific
expenditures of the tax revenues. The Authority is currently governed by the
Fresno County Board of Supervisors, but if the tax were to be approved by
the voters, a successor board would govern the Authority. This successor
seven-member board would consist of the mayor of Fresno and six members

appointed by the Fresno County Board of Supervisors, one of whom would
have to have expertise in zoo matters.

The City of Fresno, which currently provides approximately $1,2 million per
year to support the Chaffee Zoo, would be required to maintain its financial
support of the Zoo on a declining basis over the first five years of the tax,
reducing its support by 20% each year until in the sixth year and thereafter
the City would not be required to support the Zoo.

s/ Dennis A. Marshall
County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 2004-1. If
you desire a copy of the ordinance, please visit our website at
www.co.fresno.ca.us or call the Fresno County Clerk/Elections
Department at (559) 488-3246 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to
you.

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT

This ballot measure is to adopt a Retail Transactions and Use Tax in the
Incorporated and Unincorporated areas of Fresno County at the rate of one-
tenth of one percent (0.10%). The State Board of Equalization will administer
this sales tax if approved by at least two-thirds of the electors voting on the
measure.

This ordinance will generate approximately nine million five hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($9,550,000.00) annually with the growth of this revenue
generally following the economic trends within the local community.

The revenue from this Fresno County Zoo Authority Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance will be used exclusively for the support of zoos, zoological
facilities, and the related zoological purposes within the County. This tax will
terminate on the later date of March 31,2015 or 10 years after the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of the State Board of
Equalization contract in accordance with the provisions of this Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance.

s/ Vicki Crow, CPA

Auditor-Controller/Treasurer-Tax Collector

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

For nearly a century the Chaffee Zoo has entertained and educated
countless millions of delighted area visitors. Now, without Measure "Z," we

PR-9029-1

N FR 123-021

will likely lose forever this regional treasure - the only zoo in this part of
California.

Years of severe underfunding have left our Zoo in critical condition.
Measure "Z” will provide desperately needed money for:

•	Repairing hundreds of overdue urgent items like leaking roofs and
broken water lines

•	Restoring the Zoo with beautiful new, natural habitat exhibits - and then
bringing home our previously lost large animals such as rhinos, gorillas,
and lions

•	Retaining jeopardized AZA accreditation and preventing loss of even
more large animals

•	Furthering our Species Survival Plan and expanding our Education

• Program which reached 166,000 people last year

THE MAJORITY OF ALL ZOOS RECEIVE SUPPORT LIKE MEASURE “Z's"

•	Smallest ever Fresno County sales tax

•	Only 10 cents on $100 purchase

•	Typical family’s impact $15/ year - only $1.25 / month

Under New Management. The City will no longer run the Zoo with Measure
“Z." A new, citizen directed non-profit corporation will professionally
manage the Zoo; with annual audits and oversight by Fresno County.
Therefore, FUNDS WILL NOT GO TO GOVERNMENT.

Please go to SaveOurZoo.com for Measure "Z's’' extensive endorsement list
including all fifteen county mayors, and, even the San Joaquin Valley
Taxpayers Association.

Last year over 100,000 school children visited our Zoo including nine-year-old
Angel Arellano. Angel was so worried at the Zoo's condition that she wrote
her now famous Thanksgiving Day letter to the newspaper - including her
$1.00 contribution. Her accurate observation and generous spirit have
inspired and energized our whole community towards Saving Our Zoo.

For the sake of our children and future generations, it is time for the adults to
proudly finish the job that Angel started by voting YES on Measure “Z."

s/ Stacey Caha-Arellano
Angel Arellano’s Mother

s/ Jean Chaffee

Dr. Paul Chaffee's Widow

s/ John Santoya
President

San Joaquin Valley Taxpayers Association

s/ David McDonald

Save Our Zoo Chairman
Pelco President and CEO

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Supporters of the tax say that it would only cost the typical family $1.25 a
month. To raise $8 million, the estimated yearly tax revenue, it would only
cost each voting supporter of the tax, if Measure Z were to pass, about $6 a
month in voluntary contributions] Even less with corporate and philanthropic
contributions. What, then, is the justification for spending well over a half-
million dollars in an un-neighborly campaign to force people to support the
zoo AGAINST THEIR WILL?

Supporters of the tax assert that "funds will not go to government". The zoo
"corporation" board would be appointed by elected officials and have
government oversight. The zoo would be TAXPAYER FUNDED. If it walks
and talks like a duck...

Supporters of the tax threaten that we will likely lose the zoo without Measure
Z. WHY? There are alternative revenue sources such as corporate donations,
higher entry fees, and increased memberships and private donations. There
are successful privatized zoos throughout the country. A private aquarium
ownership group has offered to be a home to the zoo. Is a tax increase
really the last resort?

Do not be fooled by the biased wording of Measure Z. Please visit
www.fresno.ca.lp.ora for information and perspective that you won't see
from the local media that has chosen to campaign rather than report.

Let us ail support our zoo with our patronage and voluntary contributions. But
please, NO NEW TAXES. Vote NO on Measure Z.

s/ Rodney Austin

Chair, Libertarian Party of Fresno County

s/ Dr. Peter G, Mehas
Superintendent

Fresno County Office of Education

PR-9029-2

N FR 123-022

ARGUMENT AGAINST

California, once a pioneer in tax saving measures like Howard Jarvis’s
Proposition 13, has become a haven for moderates who believe governments
should balance their budgets through tax increases and billion dollar bond
measures* We are the richest state in the union yet we have the worst credit
rating in the country. Our state pays higher fees and interest rates than
anywhere in America. This free spending "movement" is now coming to
Fresno County. Big corporations are spending millions of dollars on
sophisticated campaigns to sell us on the benefits of sale’s tax increases.

How gullible do they think we are? If the wealthy and powerful really wanted
to help the zoo, why don’t they spend their own money, create a foundation,
keep the money out of government’s hand and give it directly to the zoo.
Since when do large corporations support higher taxes?

The truth is they want to use our money so the City has more money for their
•pet projects and corporate subsidies. We are already paying more taxes
thanks to record setting appreciation in the value of our homes and hundreds
of new, City of Fresno fee increases charged to small business owners* Now
is your chance to tell the special interests to pay their own way and tell the
Fresno Mayor and Council to pass a budget that puts the Zoo first instead of
wasting money on crazy projects and gifts of taxpayer money. Make them
work within a budget like the rest of us. Tell them our families, small business
owner's and seniors on fixed incomes are paying enough and can’t afford
more taxes. Join the Valley Taxpayers Coalition and the Libertarian Party of
Fresno County and vote no on new taxes and no on Measure Z*

s/ Chris Mathys

Valley Taxpayer’s Coalition, Inc.

s/ Rodney Austin
Chairman

Libertarian Party of Fresno County

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST

Here are the facts:

•	California’s well-publicized fiscal crisis has taken millions of dollars from
local governments; severely impacting Fresno's budget and services.

•	Now, without Measure "Z," WE WILL LIKELY LOSE OUR CHAFFEE
ZOO. There is NO other viable funding source for the millions of dollars
in urgently needed repairs. Many of our decades-old exhibits are no
longer suitable for our treasured animals. Their wellbeing must come
first. That’s why all fifteen Fresno County mayors have joined local

PR-9029-3

teachers, parents, community leaders, businesses, labor, and children
like Angel Arellano in supporting SAVE OUR ZOO - YES on "Z."

Please consider this:

•	FUNDS WILL NOT GO TO GOVERNMENT. By law, every dime must be
spent restoring the Zoo. A new citizen directed nonprofit corporation -
NOT THE CITY - will professionally manage the Zoo; with Fresno County
audits and oversight.

•	Ninety-six percent of ail other AZA zoos receive public funding. A
majority have voter-supported funding like Measure "Z's.” Even the
world-famous San Diego Zoo has received dedicated tax funding
continuously since 1942.

Only with YOUR help can we save our ninety-six-year-old Zoo for our
children and future generations.

As the Fresno Bee says:

•	"The Chaffee Zoo is too important a community resource to lose."

•	"Measure "Z" is an opportunity to give the Zoo a guaranteed future."

•	"The tiny sales tax increase would be barely noticeable to most

shoppers."

•	"Now voters must follow through on Angel's work by passing Measure
“Z" on the November 2nd ballot."

THANK YOU!

s/ Stacey Caha-Arellano
Angel Arellano’s Mother

s/ Dr. Peter G. Mehas
Superintendent

Fresno County Office of Education

s/ Jean Chaffee

Dr. Paul Chaffee’s Widow

s/ Victor P, Lopez
Mayor

City of Orange Cove

s/ David McDonald

Save Our Zoo Chairman
Pelco President and CEO