Consolidated

Registrar of Voters

Polling Place Location
on Back Cover
Polls Ope

7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

Last Day

To Register To Vote

Quick • Easy • Convenient

Vote-By-Mail

October 6th - October 28th
Application on Back Cover

AVISO IMPORTANTE

Una traduccion en Espanol de
esta Boleta de Muestra y Folleto
de Informacion al Votante puede
obtenerse en la oficina del Registro de

Sample Ballot and Information Pamphlet

Votantes llamando al (951) 486-7200
o 1 (800) 773-VOTE (8683) o visite
nuestro sitio web www.voteinfo.net

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

2724 Gateway Drive • Riverside, CA 92507
951-486-7200 • 800-773-VOTE (8683) • TTY: 951-697-8966
www.voteinfo.net

SAMPLE BALLOT / BOLETA EJEMPLAR

o

>

CITY/CIUDAD

CITY OF BLYTHE / CIUDAD DE BLYTHE

W

Measure “W”: Sales Tax 0.5% Increase. Shall the City of Blythe increase its sales tax by one-half of one percent (0.5%) for a period of five years?

Medida “W”: Incremento del 0.5% del Impuesto sobre las Ventas. ^Debera la Ciudad de Blythe aumentar su impuesto sobre las ventas por la mitad del uno por ciento
(0.5%) por un periodo de cinco anos?

YES

SI

NO

NO

X Measure “X”: Transient Occupancy Tax 3% Increase. Shall the City of Blythe increase its transient occupancy tax (TOT) by 3%, to bring its transient
occupancy tax to a rate of 13%, for a period of five years?

Medida “X”: Incremento del 3% del Impuesto sobre ocupacion transitoria. ^Debera la Ciudad de Blythe aumentar su impuesto de ocupacion transitoria (TOT) en un
3% para elevar su impuesto de ocupacion transitoria a una tasa del 13% por un periodo de cinco anos?

YES

SI

NO

NO

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY / VOTO CONSULTIVO SOLAMENTE

Y Measure “Y”: Advisory Vote Only on City Funds Use. Advisory Vote Only. Shall road improvements and maintenance, the fire department, the police
department, city promotion, community center enhancements, recreation center enhancements, and code enforcement (enhancing the appearance) be given
priority in receipt of additional revenue generated, if either Measure “W” (Sales Tax 0.5% Increase) or Measure “X” (Transient Occupancy Tax 3% Increase), or if
both of them, is/are approved by the voters?	y^g

Medida “Y”: Voto consultivo Solo sobre el Uso de los Fondos de la Ciudad. Voto consultivo solamente. <j,Se le dara prioridad a mejoras y mantenimiento de las
carreteras, el departamento de bomberos, el departamento de policia, la promotion de la ciudad, las mejoras del centro de comunitario, mejoras del centro de recreo, y la
aplicacion del codigo (mejorando la apariencia) a la reception de los ingresos adicionales generados, si ya sea la Medida “W” (incremento del Impuesto sobre las Ventas
del 0.5%) o la Medida “X” (incremento del Impuesto de ocupacion transitoria del 3%), o si ambas, es/son aprobadas por los votantes?

SI

NO

NO

CITY OF BLYTHE / CIUDAD DE BLYTHE

Measure “Z”: Authorize, Regulate and Tax Medical Cannabis Businesses. Shall Ordinance No. 866-14 that would authorize and regulate medical cannabis
businesses; charge each medical cannabis business a maximum of $10,000 per year for each business license issued; and tax each medical cannabis business
at the maximum rate of fifteen cents for each $1.00 of proceeds collected and at a maximum monthly rate of $10 a square foot of cannabis cultivated; be

adopted?

Medida “Z”: Autorizar regular e imponer impuestos fiscales sobre las Empresas de Cannabis Medicinal. ^Debera ser adoptada la Ordenanza Num. 866-14 que
autorizaria y regularia las empresas de cannabis medicinal; cobraria a cada negocio de cannabis medicinal un maximo de $10,000 por ano por cada licencia comercial
expedida; e impondria un impuesto sobre cada negocio de cannabis medicinal a la tasa maxima de quince centavos por cada $1.00 del producto recaudado y a una tasa
maxima mensual de $10 por pie cuadrado de cannabis cultivada?____________________________________________________

YES

SI

NO

NO

13

<

ro

ro

ro

SAMPLE BALLOT / BOLETA EJEMPLAR

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “X”

As declared and reaffirmed by the Blythe City Council, the City
continues to face a state of fiscal emergency due to the severe impact of
the economic collapse caused by the Great Recession of recent years,
as well as the collapse of the housing market, continuing California
state takeaways, and insufficient tax revenues to cover government
expenses. In response to this fiscal emergency, the City Council is
asking the City’s voters to vote on Measure “X.”

If approved by the voters, Measure “X” would increase the existing
Transient Occupancy Tax rate by 3% (from 10% to 13%). Individuals,
usually visitors to the City, pay this tax when they stay at any lodging
facility within the City such as a hotel or motel. The tax only applies if the
individual stays at the lodging facility for less than 30 consecutive days.
The tax helps place the financial burden of providing additional local
support services, like public safety, street maintenance, and upkeep
of the City’s parks, on the visitors who contribute to this increased
financial burden on the City.

The tax payments are collected from the visitors by the property
“operators” who then remit the amounts to the City.

All proceeds of the tax will be deposited into the City's General Fund to
be used for all general municipal governmental purposes at the City’s
discretion.

This measure provides that the 3% Transient Occupancy Tax increase
would expire in five years.

Measure “X” was placed on the Ballot by the Blythe City Council. It will
be adopted if it is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure.

By:	Christian	Bettenhausen

City Attorney, Blythe CA

The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure “X”. If you desire a copy of the measure,
please call the Blythe City Clerk’s office at (760) 922-
6161 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “X”

Arguments in favor of Measure “X” include:

•	This tax will not affect the residents of Blythe, because it will be
paid only by visitors staying in our hotels/motels;

•	This increase will sunset (go away) in five years;

•	The current rate at 10% is lower than most of the Coachella
Valley hotels/motels; they range from 9-13.5%;

•	The money from Measure “X” will remain in Blythe, the County
and State will not get any of this increase;

•The City of Blythe has reduced its workforce by 48% and
operating supplies by 16% since 2008;

•Combined with fiscal restraint these augmented funds will
improve our financial situation to allow the City to focus on
needed services, infrastructure, and programs;

Mayor Mike Evans said, “this is not a tax that residents of Blythe will pay
unless, you stay in a hotel/motel in town. In fact, when residents stay
somewhere else, their tax dollars are improving another community;
let’s do the same here”

The Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) would increase from 10% to
13%. The 3% increase would generate approximately $300,000 in
new revenue to address our roads, police protection, fire protection,
recreation center activities, senior center activities, promoting our City,
and cleaning our City. Almost exclusively non-Blythe residents would
pay this tax. For every $100 room rate, it would add $3 to the bill.

Below is the list of supporters who signed the official voter pamphlet in
favor of Measure “X”:

By:	Bill	Kern,	Fire	Chief	of	Blythe	Volunteer	Fire	Department

Doris Morgan, Senior Advocate

Angie Patel, Past President of the Blythe Chamber of
Commerce

Sam Patel, Business Owner
Gloria Saldana, Business Owner

NO ARGUMENT FILED AGAINST MEASURE “X”

33-9029-M78

RV 222-022

RESOLUTION NO. 2014-029

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLYTHE, CALIFORNIA SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS OF
THE CITY OF BLYTHE, CALIFORNIA A GENERAL TAX
MEASURE TO INCREASE THE CITY SALES TAX BY 0.5%

FOR A PERIOD OF FIVE YEARS, A GENERAL TAX
MEASURE TO INCREASE THE CITY TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX BY 3% TO A NEW RATE OF 13% FOR A
PERIOD OF FIVE YEARS, AND AN ADVISORY MEASURE
ON USE OF CITY FUNDS

WHEREAS, pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article XIIIC of the California
Constitution and Section 53720 et. seq. of the Government Code the City Council is authorized
to impose a general tax upon submission of such general tax to the voters of the City and
approval by a majority of the voters voting on the issue, at an election consolidated with a
regularly scheduled general election for members of the governing body of the local government,
except in cases of emergency declared by unanimous vote of the governing body; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 the City Council
upon approval by a two-thirds vote of all members of that governing body, and upon compliance
with aforementioned election and voter approval requirements, may levy a transactions and use
(sales) tax for general revenue purposes; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7280 the City Council
upon compliance with aforementioned election and voter approval requirements may impose a
transient occupancy tax;

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections Code section 9603, the City Council is authorized to
submit to the voters advisory measures for an indication of general voter opinion on substantive
issues and/or ballot proposals; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters of the City, pursuant to this
Resolution, a ballot measure to increase by 0.5% the City’s Sales Tax in the City for a period of
five years, the proceeds of the increase to be deposited in the City’s General Fund for general
governmental purposes; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters of the City, pursuant to this
Resolution, a ballot measure to increase by 3% the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax to a new rate
of 13% for a period of five years, the proceeds of the increase to be deposited in the City’s
General Fund for general governmental purposes; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters of the City, pursuant to this
Resolution, an advisory ballot measure on use of City funds; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLYTHE,
CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That the City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does order
submitted to the voters at the General Municipal Election the following questions:

Measure B: Sales Tax 0.5% Increase	Response	Vote
Shall the City of Blythe increase its sales tax by one-half of one percent (0.5%) for a period of five years?	Yes	
	No	

Measure C: Transient Occupancy Tax 3% Increase	Response	Vote
Shall the City of Blythe increase its transient occupancy (TOT) tax by 3%, to bring its transient occupancy tax to a rate of 13%, for a period of five years?	Yes	
	No	

Measure D: Advisory Vote Only on City Funds Use	Response	Vote
Advisory Vote Only. Shall road improvements and maintenance, the fire department, the police department, city promotion, community center enhancements, recreation center enhancements, and code enforcement (enhancing the appearance) be given priority in receipt of additional revenue generated, if either Measure A (Sales Tax 0.5% Increase) or Measure B (Transient Occupancy Tax 3% Increase), or if both of them, is/are approved by the voters?	Yes	
	No	

SECTION 2. The method of collection, exemptions, and all other details and aspects of
the application and operation of both the proposed Sales Tax increase and the proposed Transient
Occupancy Tax increase described herein by this Resolution (with the express exceptions of the
rate and the period of time effective) shall be the same as at the present, and the proposed Sales
Tax and proposed Transient Occupancy Tax shall each become effective upon approval of a
majority of the votes cast by the voters voting upon the respective ballot measures for each tax.

SECTION 3. Each ballot measure shall not take effect, and neither the proposed Sales
Tax increase nor the proposed Transient Occupancy Tax increase, shall be levied, unless and

until the respective ballot measure receives the approval of a majority of the votes cast by the
voters of the City voting upon such ballot measure at the November 4, 2014 general municipal
election.

SECTION 4.That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held
and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 5. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the
City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election, in time, form and manna1 as required by law.

SECTION 6. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 29th day of July, 2014, by the following

vote:

AYES:	Evans, Wade, DeConinck, Galvan and Cusick

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

Mike nvans, Mayor

ATTEST:

Mallory Sutterfield, City Clerk