TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO MEASURE N	
|k | MEASURE N: Shall there be a I\l continuation of the four year spe- 1 cial tax for paramedic services in the amount of $57 in the first year and raising the tax $6 annually to a maximun taxable living unit, or per 1,500 square feei on a developed parcel in non-residential i appropriations limit increased by the amou for the next four years?	YES
	NO
	a of $75 per t of structure ise. with the nt of said tax

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE N

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds (2/3) vote, the
special tax for paramedic services administered by the
Ross Valley Paramedic Authority, will be continued for
four more years. The tax for residential units will be
$57.00 per taxable living unit in the first year and increas-
ing thereafter by $6.00 per year with a maximum of
$75.00 per taxable living unit. The tax for non-residential
parcels will be $57.00 per 1,500 square feet of structure
for each developed parcel in non-residential use in the first
year, increasing thereafter by $6.00 per year.

The proposed special tax for paramedic services will be
collected in addition to fees for transportation to the hos-
pital charged to insurance providers. The applicable
appropriations limit pursuant to Article XIIIB of the
California Constitution will be increased in an amount
equal to the proceeds of the special tax.

The Town Council of the Town of San Anselmo placed
this measure on the ballot at its meeting of May 27,2014.
If the voters do not approve the measure, the current tax
will expire on June 30,2015.

s/ROBERT F. EPSTEIN
San Anselmo Town Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Since 1982 the voters of the Ross Valley have continued to
approve a special tax to help fund the fire department
based paramedic service. You are being asked to again
support the tax with modest annual $6 incremental
increases for four years to a maximum rate of $75. The
Ross Valley Paramedic Authority is a partnership of 8
Ross Valley communities that have combined efforts to
deliver this exceptional level of care.

The initial Ross Valley Paramedic Authority tax provided
for a single ambulance. The expectation for paramedic
care from our citizens has dictated that service levels con-
tinue to expand and evolve. Paramedic care is now pro-
vided through a system that includes three, state of the art
fire department paramedic ambulance units and with
trained paramedics aboard fire engines so that advanced
emergency care can arrive as quickly as possible.

The Ross Valley Paramedic Authority will continue the
responsible, transparent approach to managing the costs of
our emergency medical response service and adequately
provide for the long-term safety of our community.

A Yes Vote Will:

•	Ensure the existing high level paramedic emergency
medical response services

•	Continue local control over these tax revenues

•	Maintain rapid emergency response times

Your tax pays for a significant portion of the paramedic
program. Additional funds are collected from insurance
companies through third party billing and from billing of
non-resident customers. In addition, your tax covers con-
tinuing paramedic training, the cost of supplies and equip-
ment and the replacement of ambulance units when needed.
Our goal is to continue to provide state of the art para-
medic care in the Ross Valley. We need your vote to con-
tinue this vital service. Vote YES on Measure N.
s/TOM McINERNEY
Mayor, Town of San Anselmo
s/JOHN D. WRIGHT
Vice Mayor, Town of San Anselmo
s/KATHRYN P. COLEMAN
Councilmember, Town of San Anselmo
s/DOUGLAS T. KELLY
Councilmember, Town of San Anselmo

SA-1

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE N WAS FILED.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans recommends that
you vote “NO” on Measure N. Our reasoning follows:

•	Measure N requests taxpayer money to provide ser-
vices that should be funded through the normal
operating revenues of the Town.

•	The Town has asked for funding to mask the sys-
tematic mismanagement of their operations.

•	Money is fungible. A “YES” vote on Measure N is
a vote to allow our elected officials to avoid setting
priorities and allocating funds appropriately.

•	The systematic mismanagement of operations is
highlighted through excessive pensions and retiree
medical plans.

Mismanaged pensions and other retirement plans are
endemic in the public sector and the Town is no exception.
These plans suffer from major problems:

•	The plans are extremely generous. The value of the
plans dwarfs the value of corresponding plans pro-
vided in the private sector.

•	In addition to their lavish plan costs, the plans are
subject to extreme cost fluctuations and risk. The
costs of plans are based upon very optimistic
assumptions. Unless those assumptions are met
(and they have not been this century), there is a
funding shortfall (i.e., unfunded liability). This
shortfall is recovered through increased contribu-
tions from the Town (i.e., the taxpayer).

•	These higher contributions come at a cost. Either
the Town reduces services or it requests more
money. Measure N is an example of a request for
more money from the taxpayer.

If taxpayers vote for Measure N, they are enabling the
Town to continue its mismanagement by maintaining its
rich and financially volatile retirement plans. A better idea
is that the Town reform its plans to stabilize its budget and
to eliminate the need for taxpayer requests such as
Measure N.

Vote against this measure!
s/JODY MORALES
Founder and President,

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE N

While we support pension reform efforts, San Anselmo
already has a solid record in addressing its pension costs.
Each of us was a citizen member of San Anselmo’s Finan-
cial Advisory Committee. We know that the Town is fis-
cally well managed and has taken significant steps to curb
pension costs. This continues to be a Town priority.

The failure to pass Measure N could create public safety
risks and would be detrimental to Town residents. The
Ross Valley Paramedic Authority has been voter funded
since 1983. It is one of the most successful regional
agency partnerships in Marin.

Due to the significant cost associated with providing para-
medic first response and ambulance services, each of the
eight Ross Valley communities formed the RVPA partner-
ship to share paramedic costs. The RVPA paramedic tax
funds are only used to provide emergency response Fire
Department-based advanced life support paramedic ser-
vices. The Town could not afford to operate this service
without sharing costs with our neighboring communities
through the RVPA. Measure N seeks to renew the existing
paramedic tax that costs homeowners less than 20 cents
per day.

Because of the funding support of the RVPA paramedic
tax, there is no direct cost to a Ross Valley resident for
paramedic care or emergency ambulance transport. If the
measure fails, residents could be charged in order to help
offset the costs of providing paramedic service and ambu-
lance transport. The cost to residents who use the system
would then be much greater.

Please vote Yes on Measure N.
s/ROBERTA ROBINSON
Retired Businesswoman
s/GAGE HOUSER
Investment Manager
s/CHRISTOPHER LIVERMORE
Small Business Owner

SA-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N

RESOLUTION NO. 4071
A RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF
THE TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO CALLING AND
GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF AN
ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 4,2014 AND RE-
QUESTING THE MARIN COUNTY BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS TO CONSOLIDATE SAID ELEC-
TION; AND AUTHORIZING THE TOWN CLERK
OR HER DULY AUTHORIZED OFFICERS AND
AGENCY TO CARRY OUT ALL THE NECESSARY
PROCEDURES FOR SAID ELECTION SUB-
MITTING TO THE VOTERS THE QUESTION
RELATING TO A SPECIAL TAX FOR PARA-
MEDIC SERVICES

Whereas, the Town of San Anselmo is considering con-
tinuing the special tax for paramedic services in the Town;
and

Whereas, under the provisions of the laws relating to gen-
eral law cities in the State of California, an election shall
be held on November 4,2014 at which the Town Council
desires to submit to the voters a question relating to a spe-
cial tax for paramedic services; and
Whereas, it is desirable that the election be consolidated
with the statewide election to be held on the same date and
that within the Town, the precincts, polling places, and
election officers of the two elections to be the same; and
Whereas, it is desirable that the Marin County Elections
Department canvass the returns of the General Election
and that the election be handled in all respects as if there
were only one election.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO, CALIFORNIA, DOES
RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE, AND ORDER
AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the
laws of the State of California relating to General Law
Cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the Town
of San Anselmo, California, an election on Tuesday,
November 4,2014.

Section 2. That pursuant to the requirements of
Section 10403 of the California Elections Code, the Board
of Supervisors of the County of Marin is hereby requested
to consent and agree to the consolidation of said election.

Section 3. That the Town Council hereby acknowl-
edges that the consolidated election will be held and con-
ducted in the manner prescribed in Section 10418.

Section 4. That the Town Council, pursuant to its
rights and authority, does order submitted to the voters at
the November 4,2014 election the following question:
The people of the Town of San Anselmo do ordain as
follows:

Shall there be a continuation of the four year
special tax for paramedic services in the amount
of $57 in the first year and raising the tax $6
annually to a maximum of $75 per taxable living
unit, or per 1,500 square feet of structure on a
developed parcel in non-residential use, with the

SA-3

appropriations limit increased by the amount of

said tax for the next four years?

Section 5. Pursuant to Elections Code section 9280,
the Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the measure to the
Town Attorney who shall prepare an impartial analysis of
the measure in accordance with said Section 9280.
Arguments for and against said measure may be filed in
accordance with applicable provisions of the law. Pursuant
to Section 9285 of the Elections Code of the State of
California, (the provisions of which are hereby adopted),
when the clerk has selected the arguments for and against
the measure which will be printed and distributed to the
voters, the clerk shall send copies of the argument in favor
of the measure to the authors of the argument against, and
copies of the argument against to the authors of the argu-
ment in favor. The rebuttal arguments shall be filed with
the Town Clerk not more than 10 days after the final date
for filing direct arguments. Rebuttal arguments shall be
printed in the same manner as the direct arguments. Each
rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct
argument which it seeks to rebut. The text of the measure
shall be printed on the ballot in the voter information por-
tion of the sample ballot.

Section 6. That the Marin County Elections Depart-
ment is authorized to canvass the returns of said election.
The election shall be held in all respects as if there were
only one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

Section 7. That the Board of Supervisors is request-
ed to issue instructions to the Marin County Elections
Department to take any and all steps necessary for the
holding of the consolidated election.

Section 8. That the Town Clerk is hereby directed to
file a certified copy of this resolution with the Board of
Supervisors and the Marin County Elections Department.

Section 9. That the polls for the election shall be
open at 7:00 a.m. on November 4, 2014 and shall remain
open continuously from that time until 8:00 p.m. of the
same day, when the polls shall be closed, except as pro-
vided in Section 14401 of the Elections Code of the State
of California.

Section 10. That in all particulars not recited in this
resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as pro-
vided by law for holding municipal elections.

Section 11. That notice of the time and place of hold-
ing the election is given and Town Clerk is authorized,
instructed, and directed to give further or additional notice
of the election, in time, form, and manner as required by
law.

Section 12. That the Town Clerk shall certify to the
passage and adoption of this Resolution and enter it into
the book of original resolutions.

Section 13. This resolution shall take effect immedi-
ately.

I, the undersigned hereby certify that the foregoing is a
full, true, and complete copy of a resolution duly passed
and adopted by the Council of the Town of San Anselmo
at a regular meeting thereof held on the 27th day of May
2014, by the following vote:

AYES:	Coleman, Greene, Kelly, Mclnemey, Wright

NOES:	None

ABSENT: None

APPROVED:
s/TOM McINERNEY
Mayor

ATTEST:

s/JOANNE KESSELfor
BARBARA CHAMBERS
Town Clerk

SA-4