COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 27 MEASURE P	
MEASURE P: Shall there be a mJ continuation of the four year spe- cial tax for paramedic services in the amount of $57 in the first year and raising the tax $6 annually to a maximun taxable living unit, or per 1,500 square feei on a developed parcel in non-residential i appropriations limit increased by the amou for the next four years?	YES
	NO
	fi of $75 per t of structure ise, with the nt of said tax

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE P

COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 27
SPECIAL TAX FOR PARAMEDIC SERVICES
This measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Marin.

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote,
County Service Area No. 27 would be authorized to con-
tinue the four year special tax for emergency paramedic
services in the amount of fifty-seven dollars ($57) the first
year and to raise the tax six dollars ($6) annually to a max-
imum of seventy-five dollars ($75) per living unit, or per
1,500 square feet of structure of each developed parcel in
non-residential use, with an appropriations limit increase
in the amount of said tax.

s/STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Since 1982 the voters of the Ross Valley have continued to
approve a special tax to help fund the fire department
based paramedic service. You are being asked to again
support the tax with modest annual $6 incremental
increases for four years to a maximum rate of $75. The
Ross Valley Paramedic Authority is a partnership of 8
Ross Valley communities that have combined efforts to
deliver this exceptional level of care.

The initial Ross Valley Paramedic Authority tax provided
for a single ambulance. The expectation for paramedic
care from our citizens has dictated that service levels con-
tinue to expand and evolve. Paramedic care is now pro-
vided through a system that includes state of the art fire
department paramedic ambulance units and with trained
paramedics aboard fire engines so that advanced emer-
gency care can arrive as quickly as possible.

The Ross Valley Paramedic Authority will continue the
responsible, transparent approach to managing the costs of
our emergency medical response service and adequately
provide for the long-term safety of our community.

A Yes Vote Will:

•	Ensure the existing high level paramedic emergency
medical response services

•	Continue local control over these tax revenues

•	Maintain rapid emergency response times

Your tax pays for a significant portion of the paramedic
program. Additional funds are collected from insurance
companies through third party billing and from billing of
non-resident customers. In addition, your tax covers con-
tinuing paramedic training, the cost of supplies and equip-
ment and the replacement of ambulance units when needed.
Our goal is to continue to provide state of the art para-
medic care in the Ross Valley. We need your vote to con-
tinue this vital service. Vote YES on Measure P.
s/KATIE RICE
Supervisor, District 2
s/STEVE KINSEY
Supervisor, District 4

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE P WAS FILED.

CSA-1

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans recommends that
you vote “NO” on Measure P. Our reasoning follows:

•	Measure P requests taxpayer money to provide ser-
vices that should be funded through the normal
operating revenues of the Service Area.

•	The Service Area has asked for funding to mask the
systematic mismanagement of their operations.

•	Money is fungible. A “YES” vote on Measure P is
a vote to allow our elected officials to avoid setting
priorities and allocating funds appropriately.

•	The systematic mismanagement of operations is
highlighted through excessive pensions and retiree
medical plans.

Mismanaged pensions and other retirement plans are
endemic in the public sector and the Service Area is no
exception. These plans suffer from major problems:

•	The plans are extremely generous. The value of the
plans dwarfs the value of corresponding plans pro-
vided in the private sector.

•	In addition to their lavish plan costs, the plans are
subject to extreme cost fluctuations and risk. The
costs of plans are based upon very optimistic
assumptions. Unless those assumptions are met
(and they have not been this century), there is a
funding shortfall (i.e., unfunded liability). This
shortfall is recovered through increased contribu-
tions from the Service Area (i.e., the taxpayer).

•	These higher contributions come at a cost. Either
the Service Area reduces services or it requests
more money. Measure P is an example of a request
for more money from the taxpayer.

If taxpayers vote for Measure P, they are enabling the
Service Area to continue its mismanagement by maintain-
ing its rich and financially volatile retirement plans. A bet-
ter idea is that the Service Area reform its plans to stabi-
lize its budget and to eliminate the need for taxpayer
requests such as Measure P.

Vote against this measure!
s/JODY MORALES
Founder and President,

Citizens for Sustainable Pension Plans

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE P

Although we understand the concerns about pension costs
cited in the argument against Measure P, this measure is
about supporting existing critical public safety services.
The RVPA exists to support a well-integrated, community
based program that seeks to reduce costs through efficien-
cies gained through a shared service. The total FY 2014-
15 budget for CSA 27 is $35,800.

•	Measure P’s $6 annual increase for four years will
ensure the continued provision of these critical
emergency services for residents.

•	The Ross Valley Paramedic Authority has been
voter-funded since 1983. It is one of the longest run-
ning and most successful regional agency partner-
ships in Marin.

•	Due to the cost associated with providing paramedic
first response and ambulance transport services,
each of the eight communities in the Ross Valley
formed the RVPA partnership in order to share the
costs of the program, which saves taxpayer dollars
vs. independent city, town and County programs for
this service.

•	The RVPA parcel tax funds are only used to provide
emergency response, fire department based, ad-
vanced life support paramedic services.

•	Because of the funding support of the RVPA proper-
ty tax, there is no direct cost to Ross Valley residents
for paramedic care or emergency ambulance trans-
port.

•	If Measure P fails, patients could be directly charged
to help offset the costs of providing paramedic ser-
vice and ambulance transport. These direct charges
could adversely impact elderly residents who are on
a fixed income rather than being shared by the com-
munity. We urge your support of Measure P.

s/PETER R. ARRIGONI
Retired, County of Marin Board of Supervisors
s/JENNIFER RIENKS
PhD, Director, Marin Healthcare District
s/GARY HROMADA
President, Oak Manor Homeowners Association
s/SHARON J. JACKSON
Board Member, Whistlestop;
former Director, Marin Healthcare District
s/ROGER MEAGOR
Retired, Fire Chief, Ross Valley Fire Department

CSA-2

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P

RESOLUTION NO. 2014-47
RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVI-
SORS OF THE COUNTY OF MARIN SERVICE
AREA NO. 27 CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION
TO BE CONSOLIDATED WITH THE NOVEMBER
4,2014 GENERAL ELECTION ON A MEASURE
ADOPTING AN INCREASE IN A SPECIAL TAX
FOR PARAMEDIC SERVICES EFFECTIVE JULY
1,2015; ADOPTING INTENDED BALLOT LAN-
GUAGE; AND AUTHORIZING THE COUNTY
REGISTRAR OF VOTERS TO TAKE APPROPRI-
ATE ACTION

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Marin does
hereby resolve as follows:

WHEREAS, this Board is the governing Board of
County Service Area No. 27 within the unincorporated
area of the County of Marin, which Area has extraordinary
needs owing to demands upon the services of said Area; and
WHEREAS, a previous election of imposition of spe-
cial taxes was held in County Service Area No. 27 pur-
suant to Articles XIIIA and XIIIB of the California
Constitution, and Article 3.5, Chapter 1, Part 1, Division 1,
Title V (§§ 50075, et seq.) of the California Government
Code; and

WHEREAS, the increase in the imposition of said tax
is required to meet the cost of paramedic services; and
WHEREAS, the maximum allowable tax was estab-
lished at $51.00 per residential unit plus a $0.50 County
administrative fee, and $51.00 per 1,500 square feet of
structure in non-residential use, plus a $.50 County admin-
istrative fee; and

WHEREAS, the Ross Valley Paramedic Tax has been
annually levied and each four years the tax rate reset and
approved by election and is scheduled to expire June 30,
2015;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that this
Board hereby calls an election to be consolidated with the
November 4, 2014 general election, at which election the
issue to be presented to the voters of County Service Area
No. 27 is as follows:

COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 27
PARAMEDIC SERVICES SPECIAL TAX MEASURE
Shall there be a continuation of the four year special tax
for paramedic services in the amount of $57 in the first
year and raising the tax $6 annually to a maximum of $75
per taxable living unit, or per 1.500 square feet of structure
on a developed parcel in non-residential use, with the
appropriations limit increased by the amount of said tax
for the next four years?

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that rebuttals shall
be received to ballot arguments made by this Board on
behalf of said special tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the election is
consolidated with the statewide general election and any
other elections to be held within Marin County on
November 4, 2014, and that it include in its proclamation
or notice of the election that Article 3 of Chapter 2 of
Division 9 of the Elections Code relating to arguments
concerning county measures applies, and the County
Counsel is directed to prepare an impartial analysis.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that pursuant to
Elections Code section 10418, all proceedings related to,
connected with, and incidental to the election shall be reg-
ulated and performed in accordance with the provisions of
law regulating the statewide election.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the special tax
if approved by 2/3 vote of the electorate, for the purposes
outlined herein, is due from every person who owns a liv-
ing unit or non-residential structure within this Area as
reflected upon the rolls of the County Assessor at the same
time ad valorem tax is due and is to be collected in the
same manner. The Marin County Tax Collector shall col-
lect the tax and any penalty or interest due hereunder.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that failure of this
measure shall not affect the existing special tax, previous-
ly authorized by voters effective through June 30,2015.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that if any part of
this Resolution is held invalid the remainder of the
Resolution shall not be affected.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of
the Board of Supervisors of County Service Area No. 27,
held on the 17th day of June, 2014 by the following vote:
AYES:	SUPERVISORS	Judy	Arnold,	Susan	L. Adams,

Steve Kinsey, Katie Rice,
Kathrin Sears

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT: NONE

s/KATHRIN SEARS
President, Board of Supervisors

ATTEST:
s/M. S. HYMEL
Clerk

YES	
NO	