VOTER’S BOOKLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

MEASURE C
TOWN OF PARADISE

Shall Ordinance No. 545, a temporary sales tax
increase of one-half percent (0.50%) that
automatically expires in six years, and that
establishes a citizen oversight committee to ensure
that the funds are used to preserve public services
such as police protection, fire suppression, street
maintenance, animal control and other services for
the Town of Paradise, be adopted?

Yes	No

TOWN ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE C

The current retail sales tax rate in the Town
of Paradise is 7.5 % of which the Town receives 1%.
If adopted by voters, Measure G would add a new
Chapter 3.22 to the Paradise Municipal Code, which
would enact a temporary transaction and use tax
(“retail sales tax”) for six years. Measure C would
increase the retail sales tax rate in the Town by
0.50% to 8% and would automatically terminate after
six years. The proposed temporary retail sales tax
increase would apply to sales relating to purchases in
the same manner as the current retail sales tax.

The measure would also establish a nine-
member citizens oversight committee that would
make recommendations concerning how the Town
Council would use the revenues generated by the
temporary retail sales tax increase for public services
to improve the quality of life of residents and
businesses.

All revenue generated from the temporary
retail sales tax increase would be used by the Town
to pay for general Town services, including police,
fire, emergency medical, animal control, street
maintenance and other Town services. None of the
additional revenue could be taken from the Town by
the State of California.

As a general purpose tax, Measure C
requires a simple majority vote for adoption.

The above statement is an impartial analysis
of Measure C. If you desire a copy of the measure,
please contact the Paradise Town Clerk at (530) 872-
6291 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

/s/ Dwight L. Moore
Town Attorney
Town of Paradise

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Vote Yes on Measure C, a temporary sales tax
increase to help restore and protect what we all want
for Paradise: safe neighborhoods, reliable medical
and fire protection, decent roads, economic
prosperity, improved property values, and a Vibrant
future for our Town.

The Town of Paradise has worked hard to be fiscally
responsible while maintaining essential town services.
The recession and state raids on local revenue
sources have taken your local tax dollars to balance
the State's budget-no more! We want local control
over local tax dollars! Despite our challenges, good
things are happening in Paradise. Measure G will
continue the progress by authorizing a temporary Vz
cent sales tax to fund important town services and
needed facilities, such as: maintaining firefighting and
emergency medical response; improving police
protection for safer neighborhoods; restoring funding
for our streets and roads; enhance funding to sustain
animal control.

All Measure G funds will stay locally controlled In
Paradise - For Paradise. The State Cannot take any
of this funding away.

Measure C automatically ends in 6 years. It includes
strict accountability, independent citizen oversight,
with mandatory financial reviews and quarterly reports
to the community to ensure the funds are spent as
promised for community priorities.

Basic necessities like groceries and prescription
medications won’t be taxed. Visitors to Paradise will
pay their fair share, so residents won’t should the
entire cost.

Please join your friends and neighbors, firefighters,
police officers, and community business leaders, in
taking this positive step to keep our Town strong and
moving forward. Measure C is a smart investment for
our future.

/s/ Scott Lotter, Mayor

/s/ John Rawlings, Councilmember

Butte County

04-1114-508

			D L E	[rj\
TOWN OF PARADISE RESOLUTION NO. 14-34			JULiom	zj
	\	i		ERK  UTY

A RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF PARADISEAMENDING
RESOLUTION NO. 14-24 REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY
OF BUTTE TO CONSOLIDATE A GENERAL MUNICIPAL E1ECTION TO BE HELD ON
NOVEMBER 4,2014, WITH THE STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON THAT
DATE FOR THE ELECTION OFTWO (2) TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS; AND,

FOR SUBMISSION TO THE VOTERS A QUESTION RELATING TO APPROVAL OF
ORDINANCE NO. 545, AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 3.22 TO THE PARADISE
MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED

BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Paradise called a General Municipal Election
to be held on November 4, 2014, for the purpose of the election of two (2) Members of the Town
Council for four-year terms of office ending November, 2018; and;

WHEREAS, the Town Council has agreed to submit to the voters a question relating to
approval of Ordinance No. 545, An Ordinance Amending Ordinance No. 540 Adding Chapter 3.22 to
the Paradise Municipal Code Regarding a Transactions and Use Tax to Be Administered by the
State Board of Equalization; and,

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the General Municipal Election be consolidated with the
Statewide General Election to be held on the same date; that within the Town, the precincts, polling
places and election officials of the two elections be the same; that the Election Department of the
County of Butte canvass the returns of the General Municipal Election; and, that the election be held
in all respects as if there were only one election

NOW, THEREFORE, the Town Council of the Town of Paradise does resolve, declare,
determine and order as follows:

SECTION 1. That, pursuant to the requirements of section 10403 of the Elections Code, the
Board of Supervisors of the County of Butte is hereby requested to consent and agree to the
consolidation of a General Municipal Election with the statewide General Election on Tuesday,
November 4,2014 for the purpose of electing two (2) members of the Town Council for the full term
of four (4) years, ending November, 2018.

SECTION 2. That, pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California relating
to General Law Cities, the Town Council does order submitted to the voters at the General Municipal
Election the following measure.

MEASURE C	
Shall Ordinance No. 545, a temporary sales tax increase of one-half percent	□YES
(0.50%) that automatically expires in six years, and that establishes a citizen	
oversight committee to ensure that the funds are used to preserve public services	□ NO
such as police protection, fire suppression, street maintenance, animal control and	
other services for the Town of Paradise, be adopted?	

Town of Paradise
RESOLUTION NO. 14-34

SECTION 3. That the text of the ordinance submitted to the voters is attached as Exhibit A.

SECTION 4. That the Butte County Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions
to the Butte County Election Department to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the
consolidated election.

SECTION 5. That the Butte County Election Department is authorized to canvass the
returns of the General Municipal Election and that the elections shall be held in all respects as if
there were only one election, and only one form of ballot stall be used.

SECTION 6. That the Town of Paradise recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by
Butte County by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County for such additional
costs and to pay the costs associated with the current methodology used by the Butte County
Election Department for cost recovery for Consolidated Elections.

SECTION 7. That the Town Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this resolution
with the Butte County Board of Supervisors and the Butte County Election Department of the County
of Butte.

SECTION 8. That the Town Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this resolution
and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Paradise this 25th day of
June, 2014, by the following vote:

AYES:	Greg	Bolin, Steve “Woody" Culleton, Jody Jones, John J. Rawlings and

Scott Lotter, Mayor

NOES:

None

ABSENT:

None

NOT VOTING:

None

fL" Y I .L."II1 J■—

SCOW LQ^e^aye^

TOWN OF PARADISE
ORDINANCE NO. 545

AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF PARADISE
AMENDING AND ADDING CHAPTER 3.22 TO THE PARADISE
MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The People of the Town of Paradise, State of California do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1: Chapter 3.22 is hereby amended and added to the Paradise Municipal Code to read
as follows:

Sections:

CHAPTER 3.22
Temporary Transactions and Use Tax

3.22.010 Title

3.22.020	Operative Date

3.22.030	Purpose

3.22.040	Contract with State

3.22.050	Transaction Tax Rate

3.22.060	Place of Sale

3.22.070	Use Tax Rate

3.22.075	Citizens Oversight Committee

3.22.080	Adoption of Provisions	of State Law

3.22.090 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes
3.22.100	Permit Not Required

3.22.110	Exemptions and	Exclusions

3.22.120	Amendments

3.22.130	Enjoining Collection Prohibited

3.22.010 Title

This ordinance shall be known as the Temporary Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The
Town of Paradise hereinafter shall be called "Town." This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the Town.

3.22.020 Operative Date

"Operative Date" means the ftrst day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 13 0
days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

3.22.030 Purpose

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To maintain and preserve Town of Paradise public services, including police protection, fire
suppression, street maintenance, animal control and other services within the Town.

EXHIBIT “A1

B.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the Town to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition ofthetax at an election called for that purpose.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical
to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are
not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will be, to the greatest degree possible,consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions ofthis ordinance.

3.22.040 Contract with State

Prior to the operative date, the Town shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perforin
all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the Town shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such
contract.

3.22.050 Transactions Rate Tax

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property' at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the Town at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory for six (6) years from the operative date of this ordinance.

3.22.060 Place of Sale

For the purposes ofthis ordinance, all retail sales are consumed at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his, her or its
agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax. regardless of the place to which deliver) is made. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State of California or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of

EXHIBIT TV

Equalization.

3*22,070 (Jse Tax Rate

Aii excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the Town of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer for six (6) years after the operative date of this
ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.50%j of the sales price of the property.

3.22.075 Citizens Oversight Committee

1.	The Town Council shall establish and appoint a Citizens Oversight Committee.

2.	The Citizens Oversight Committee shall consist of a nine-member board of residents of
the Town of Paradise to represent a cross-section of the community.

3.	The purpose of the Citizens Oversight Committee shall be to meet with the Town
Manager and the Town Finance Director during the preparation of each fiscal year budget until
the ordinance sunsets, to make recommendations to the Town Council regarding how the
proceeds from the implementation of the ordinance will be allocated for the ensuing budget
year. The committee shall make recommendations to the Council to provide for local public
services, including police protection, fire suppression, emergency medical services, road repair,
street maintenance, animal control and other services that will improve the quality of life for
residents and businesses within the Town of Paradise. The committee shall meet at least
quarterly during the fiscal year to ensure that the revenue generated by the ordinance is allocated
and disbursed in accordance with the Town budget. All quarterly and annual budget reports
from the committee shall be published on the Town of Paradise website prior to Council
adoption of the budget and will be available for public review.

3.22,080 Adoption of Provisions of State Law

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of
Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.22.090 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes
In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this
Town shall be substituted therefor. However,the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State
Board of Control, State Board of Equalization. State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this Town or
any agency. officer,or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization,
in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

EXHIBIT “A'

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "Town" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in
business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.22.100 Permit not Required

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.22.110 Exemptions and Exclusions

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax in the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any Town. Town and county,
or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of
any state- administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There arc exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1,	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum product s, to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the Town which is shipped to a point outside the Town,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his, her or its agent, or
by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purpose
of this paragraph, delivery to apoinl outside the Town shall be satisfied.

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) if the Vehicle Code
by registration to an out-of-Town address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

EXHIBIT "A1

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-Town
and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of the ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract of lease for any
period of time tor which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this Town of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any
state- administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provide d in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	I f the purchase is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of. or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of
time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised,

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the Town shall
not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the Town or participates within the Town in making
the sale of the property , including, but not limited to. soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the Town or through any

EXHIBIT “A'

representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the Town under the authority
of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the Town*’ shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in
the Town.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,or retailer Jiabfe
for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

3.22.120 Amendments

AN amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not consistent with Part
1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1,6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become apart
of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate
of tax imposed by this ordinance.

3.22.130 Enjoining Collection Forbidden

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the Town, or against any officer of the State or the
Town, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.”

SECTON 2. $E VERABLIL1TY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion of
the application thereof to any person or circumstance of this ordinance is for any reason held
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a
separate, distinct and independent provision of such ordinance and shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions thereof.

SECTION 3. CEQA COMPLIANCE. The Town Council finds and determines that the
enactment of this Ordinance is not a "project'1 as that term is used in the California Environmental
Quality Act ("CEQA;” Cal. Pub. Resources Code Section 21000 et seq.) or the State CEQA
Guidelines (Cal.Code of Regs., Title 14. Section 15000 et seq.). Therefore, no environmental
assessment is required or necessary.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
Town transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately upon its approval by the voters
of the Town.

EXHIBIT “A”

SECTION 5. TERMINATION DATE, The tax levied by this ordinance shall continue at the
rate of 0.50% from April 1, 2015 until March 31, 2021. The authority to levy the tax imposed by
this ordinance shall expire six (6) years from the operative date of this ordinance.

SECTION 6. DECLARATION. The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this ordinance may be
used for any lawful purpose of the Town, as authorized by ordinance, resolution or action of the
Town Council. These taxes are not special taxes within the meaning of Section 1(d) of Article X1IIC
of the California Constitution, but are general taxes imposed for general government purposes.

SECTION 7. EXECUTION. The Mayor and Town Clerk are authorized to subscribe this ordinance
where indicated below to evidence its approval by the voters of the Town.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Paradise, County of Butte,
State of California, on this 8th day of July, 2014 by the following vote:

AYES:	Steve	“Woody”	Culleton,	Jody Jones,

John J. Rawlings and Scott Lotter, Mayor

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Greg	Bolin

NOT VOTING:	None

APPRCWED AS TO FORM:
/Dwight Lr'Moore, Town Attorney

EXHIBIT “A'

I hereby certify that this ordinance was APPROVED by the voters of the Town of Paradise,

State of California, at a regular election on November_, 2014 and by the Town Council

of the Town of Paradise at a regular meeting of the Council held on________________,	2014.

Scott Lotter. Mayor

Attest:________________________________

Joanna Gutierrez, Town Clerk

EXHIBIT “A1