MEASURE A

MEASURE A

Shall City of Anderson Ordinance No. 785, authorizing the City of Anderson
to collect a one-half cent sales tax for essential general city services, be
approved?

Yes	No

CITY OF ANDERSON
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

If approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure, this measure
would authorize a one-half of one percent (0.5%) transactions and use (i.e.
“sales”) tax within the City of Anderson. Measure A is intended to prevent
significant cuts to general City services resulting from revenue shortfalls
caused by recent economic factors and increased costs. This sales tax
would be a “general tax,” meaning that revenues raised from the tax would
go into the City’s general fund to fund any lawful City program, improvement,
or service. The City would not be required to use the revenues raised by the
measure for any special purpose or for any particular program or service.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City to
levy a transactions and use tax at a rate of one-half of one percent so long
as the tax is approved by two-thirds of the City Council and a majority of the
voters voting in an election on that issue. If approved, the sales tax would
become effective on October 1,2014.

The tax would be paid in addition to current sales taxes and would be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes.
All revenues raised by the tax would belong to the City and would not be
shared with any other entity.

By placing Measure A on the ballot, the City complies with Article XIIIC of
the California Constitution (Proposition 218), which requires the voters to
approve an ordinance which establishes a general tax.

/s/Ann M. Siprelle
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A
AND MEASURE B ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

Why a Vz cent tax? As a city it is important to be responsible and have
a balanced budget. With so many challenges in today’s economy, this
can be difficult. The State balancing its budget on the backs of the cities,
AB109, (which is the release of inmates from our prisons and back into our
communities) and the decrease in development of commercial & residential
property, have all contributed to the financial strain on our city. A Vz cent
would be a boost to several departments in the City of Anderson. Our
Police Department would benefit by being able to add officers back onto
our force that is currently a skeleton crew. This would allow our officers to
shorten their response time to 911 calls, put more officers on patrol and
decrease overtime. With AB109 crime has risen; serious felony crime has
increased 29.3% since 2011, property crime has shown a 72.4% increase,
while vehicle thefts has increased a whopping 215.7%. It is imperative that
we be able to add more officers to effectively combat this trend. A dedicated
Code Enforcement Officer would enhance services in the city. This person
would be able to go out into the community on a daily basis, answer calls of
concern by the residents in a timely manner and generally be able to keep
our city “up to code”. Anderson’s parks are our jewels. We enjoy spending
time in them and seldom think of what the upkeep must cost. A Vz cent
increase to our sales tax will share with those who come from outside of our
area, the cost of this upkeep. Without the increase, our parks will continue
to deteriorate as the years pass, eventually becoming undesirable places for
our family activities. A >2 cent will increase our quality of life.

The undersigned author of the argument in favor of ballot Measure A and the
Advisory Vote Only measure at the Primary Election for the City of Anderson
to be held on June 3, 2014, hereby states that such argument is true and
correct to the best of her knowledge and belief.

/s/ Susie Baugh
Vice-Mayor
Anderson City Council

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A SUBMITTED

MEASURE B

MEASURE B

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

Should the City of Anderson allocate 50% of the tax revenue collected from
the one-half cent sales tax to the Police Department to mitigate impacts
of Prison Realignment (AB109) and increase Police Department staffing
to implement programs to reduce crime and increase public safety, and
allocate the remainder to support parks, code enforcement, restore general
fund reserves, and other general city services?

Yes	No

CITY OF ANDERSON
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE B ADVISORY MEASURE

Measure B is an advisory measure concerning the recommended
expenditure of new City of Anderson sales tax revenues if Measure A, which
is on this ballot, is approved by the voters.

Measure B does not increase taxes. Rather, Measure B allows voters
within the City of Anderson to voice their opinions on whether they believe
the City should allocate 50% of the additional sales tax revenues, if
Measure A is approved, to the Police Department to mitigate impacts of
Prison Realignment (AB 109) and increase Police Department staffing
to implement programs to reduce crime and increase public safety, and
allocate the remainder to support parks, code enforcement, restore general
fund reserves, and other general city services.

Section 9603(c) of the California Elections Code governing the purpose and
effect of such an advisory vote states:

"... ‘advisory vote’ means an indication of general voter opinion
regarding the ballot proposal. The result of the advisory vote will
in no manner be controlling on the sponsoring legislative body.”

The opinion expressed through the vote on this advisory measure, while
of interest to the City Council, is not in any manner legally controlling on
the City Council’s use of the sales tax proceeds. If a majority of the voters
vote “yes” on this measure, it will be an indication to the City Council of how
voters believe the revenues should be spent.

/s/Ann M. Siprelle
City Attorney