Humboldt County, CA

November 4, 2014 Election

From SmartVoter

yg's#

Measure Z

Sales Tax
County of Humboldt

Majority Approval Required
d Pass: 20673 / 55.9% Yes votes. 16279 / 44.1% No votes

See Also: Index of all Measures

Results as of Nov 4 11:42pm

Information shown below: Official Information | Impartial Analysis
Arguments |

HUMBOLDT COUNTY PUBLIC
SAFETY/ESSENTIAL SERVICES MEASURE. To
maintain/improve essential services, such as 24-hour
sheriffs patrols; 9-1-1 emergency response; crime
investigation/prosecution; drug/illegal marijuana
growhouse enforcement/prevention; sendees for abused
children/mentally ill; rural fire protection; road repairs;
and other County sendees, shall County of Humboldt
pursuant to County Ordinance No. 2517 enact a 1/2%
sales tax, for five years, all revenue for the County, none
for the State of California, with annual audits and public
review?

Impartial Analysis

A YES vote on Measure Z will approve the adoption of an
Ordinance enacting a county-wide transactions and use
("sales") tax within the County of Humboldt (the
"County") of 0.5% (one-half percent tax) for five years.
California law allows the County to enact local sales taxes
within their jurisdictions with voter approval, as long as
the combined County and city taxes do not exceed 2%. A
0.5% tax is the equivalent of V2 cent on each dollar.

This sales tax is a general tax. Therefore, the County
could use the money for any legal governmental purpose
such as law enforcement, fire protection, 9-1-1 services,
road repair and other programs and services that promote
public safety and enhance the welfare of Humboldt
County residents. By law, if enacted the State cannot seize

or take any of these funds +all revenue generated is
utilized for the benefit of Humboldt County constituents.

If approved by a majority of the voters, the sales tax will
become effective on April 1, 2015. The additional tax will
last for five years. At the end of five years, on March 31,

2020, the sales tax will expire.

If the Measure is approved, a citizens advisory committee
will be established to make recommendations to the
County Board of Supervisors as to the expenditure of
funds derived from the tax. All funds are subject to
annual, independent audits.

This Measure was placed on the ballot by the Board of
Supervisors.

Arguments For Measure Z	Arguments	Against	Measure	Z

We will improve public safety and vital
emergency services in Humboldt County by
voting YES on Measure Z.

Our county budget has been hard hit by the
recession, and Sacramento politicians have
taken $286 million dollars from Humboldt
County over the past 22 years. YES on Z
keeps our tax dollars here in Humboldt
County.

All Humboldt County community residents
benefit from YES on Z:

YES on Z - Improves emergency response
times. Today, many neighborhoods and rural
areas have no sheriffs' deputies on night
patrol, meaning it can take over an hour for a
sheriffs deputy to respond to a call. Measure
Z will help us reduce 911 response times by
bringing back 24-hour sheriffs' patrols,
ensuring a more timely response to calls
about violent or property crimes.

YES on Z - Helps address Humboldt County's
growing meth and hard drug problem by
fighting drug-related crimes, targeting meth

No arguments against Measure Z were
submitted.

labs, and providing drug prevention and
rehabilitation services.

YES on Z - Restores funding to rural
ambulance services to provide life-saving
care and emergency transportation throughout
the County.

YES on Z - helps our volunteer fire
departments work to protect life and property
in Humboldt County, by supporting
volunteers and providing the resources and
training they need to better protect us.

YES on Z + helps victims and witnesses of
child abuse by restoring protective and
counseling services that have been severely
reduced in recent years.

YES on Z + expires in 5 years and includes
strong fiscal accountability, by requiring
annual financial audits and public citizen
oversight—ensuring funds are spent
responsibly.

All revenue from Measure Z is for Humboldt
County, with none for the State. Vote Yes on
Measure Z to PROTECT EMERGENCY
AND PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES for our
families and communities.

/s/ Michael T. Downey, Humboldt County
Sheriff

/s/ Elizabeth Smith, Executive Director, Boys
and Girls Club of the Redwoods

/s/ Jimmy Smith, Humboldt County
Supervisor (ret.)

/s/ Eleanor Sullivan 62-year Humboldt
County resident and taxpayer

/s/ William F. Honsall III, Humboldt County
Undersheriff

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, COUNTY OF HUMBOLDT, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Certified copy of portion of proceedings. Meeting of July 22, 2014

RESOLUTION NO. 14-60

RESOLUTION PLACING THE HUMBOLDT COUNTY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX ON
THE NOVEMBER 2014 BALLOT FOR VOTER APPROVAL

WHEREAS, Humboldt County has been in severe financial condition over the last several
years, due to reduced revenues and budgetary constraints; and

WHEREAS, due to budget constraints, sheriffs patrols have been greatly reduced across the
County, meaning it can sometimes take several hours for a sheriffs deputy to respond to a call, and
additional funds are needed to expand patrols, maintain emergency 9-1-1 response times, and make sure
calls about violent or property crimes are responded to promptly; and

WHEREAS, many areas of Humboldt County are not patrolled by sheriffs deputies at night,
and we need to ensure there are sheriffs deputies on-duty 24 hours a day; and

WHEREAS, hard drugs and narcotics like methamphetamine are growing problems in
Humboldt County, and more funds are needed to fight drug-related crimes, eliminate methamphetamine
labs, and provide drug prevention and rehabilitation services; and

WHEREAS, we need to do more to fight large-scale, industrial marijuana farms which are
diverting and drying up sensitive creeks and streams and using toxic pesticides that are destroying our
local environment and risking our health; and

WHEREAS, despite limited funding, volunteer fire departments and firefighters play critical
roles in protecting life and property here in Humboldt County and additional resources will allow them
to better - and more safely - protect County residents; and

WHEREAS, protective and counseling services for the victims of child abuse have been
severely reduced in recent years, and additional funds can restore those services and protect children that
have been victims of these horrible crimes; and

WHEREAS, Humboldt County has a $150 million backlog of road maintenance projects and
over a third of the County’s roads are currently classified as “poor” or “very poor,” and without
additional funding our roads will continue to deteriorate, and become increasingly dangerous to drive on
and more expensive to repair in the future; and

WHEREAS, over the past 22 years, the State of California has taken $286 million in revenue
from Humboldt County’s budget, and this measure provides our area with a guaranteed source of local
funding that cannot be taken by the State; and

WHEREAS, funds from this measure are subject to strict accountability provisions, including
annual audits and an advisory committee which will be established by the Board of Supervisors to make
recommendations to the Board of Supervisors as to the expenditure of funds derived from the tax
imposed by this measure; and

III

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, COUNTY OF HUMBOLDT, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Certified copy of portion of proceedings. Meeting of July 22, 2014

RESOLUTION NO. 14-60

WHEREAS, the Transactions and Use Tax is a general tax and the revenues from the tax will be
placed in the County’s discretionary General Fund for general purposes; and

WHEREAS, a local 0.5% Transactions and Use Tax will greatly benefit the people of Humboldt
County by generating revenue of approximately $6 million per average year; and

WHEREAS, the net proceeds of the Transactions and Use Tax will be used by the County; and

WHEREAS, the Humboldt County Board of Supervisors adopted Humboldt County Ordinance
No. 2517 on July 22, 2014, which imposes a 0.5% Transactions and Use Tax for general purposes in
compliance with Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285 and Government Code Section 53723; and

WHEREAS, the Humboldt County Board of Supervisors wishes to place this general tax
measure on the November 4, 2014 ballot for majority voter approval pursuant to Revenue and Taxation
Code Section 7285 and Government Code Section 53723; and

WHEREAS, upon approval of a majority vote of this general tax measure, the tax will become
operative the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of
Humboldt County Ordinance No. 2517.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:

1.	That all the above recitations are true and correct.

2.	That the Transactions and Use Tax is a general tax not raised for a specific purpose, in which the
revenues from the tax will be placed in the County’s discretionary General Fund for general
purposes, thereby requiring a majority vote of the voters voting in the election on the tax, which
includes voters in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the County.

3.	This tax shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County.

4.	This tax will be collected and administered by the State Board of Equalization.

5.	The Transactions and Use Tax will be at the rate of 0.5%.

6.	The net proceeds of this tax will be used by the County for services which will benefit the
residents of the County.

7.	The Board of Supervisors shall, no later than March 1, 2015, establish by resolution an advisory
committee that will make recommendations to the Board as to the expenditure of funds derived
from this tax.

8.	The Transactions and Use Tax will terminate on March 31, 2020.

9.	The full text of the Transactions and Use Tax is found in Humboldt County Ordinance No. 2517.

10.	The Board of Supervisors hereby directs staff to take whatever action is necessary to place on the
November 4, 2014 election ballot, for majority voter approval, the general tax measure, as
summarized in the ballot measure attached hereto as Attachment “A” and to place in the ballot
pamphlet the full text of Humboldt County Ordinance No. 2517.

Ill

III

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, COUNTY OF HUMBOLDT, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Certified copy of portion of proceedings, Meeting of July 22, 2014

RESOLUTION NO. 14-60

11.	Upon approval of the tax measure by the voters, Humboldt County Ordinance No. 2517 will be
operative on the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of Humboldt County Ordinance No. 2517.

12.	This resolution is effective immediately.

Dated: July 22, 2014

REX BOHN,Chair of the Board of Supervisors

Adopted on motion by Supervisor Fennell, seconded by Supervisor Sundberg, and the following vote:

AYES:

NAYS:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Supervisors

Supervisors

Supervisors

Supervisors

Sundberg, Lovelace, Bohn, Fennell, Bass

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

County of Humboldt	)

I, KATHY HAYES, Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, County of Humboldt, State of California, do
hereby certify the foregoing to be a full, true, and correct copy of the original made in the above-entitled
matter by said Board of Supervisors at a meeting held in Eureka, California as the same now appears of
record in my Office.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my
hand and affixed the Seal of said Board of
Supervisors.

Deputy Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Humboldt, State of California

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, COUNTY OF HUMBOLDT, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Certified copy of portion of proceedings, Meeting of July 22, 2014

AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF HUMBOLDT
ADDING CHAPTER 8, DIVISION 1 OF TITLE VII TO THE HUMBOLDT COUNTY CODE
RELATING TO THE IMPOSITION OF A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

ORDINANCE NO. 2517

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Humboldt ordains as follows:

SECTION 1. Sections 718-1 through 718-18 of Chapter 8 of Division 1 of Title VII are hereby
added as shown on the attached pages.

SECTION 2. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of County transactions and use
taxes and shall take effect immediately from the date of its passage. This tax ordinance shall be
operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at
an election held on November 4, 2014, pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285 and
Government Code Section 53723. A summary shall be published at least five (5) days before the date
set for adoption and again fifteen (15) days after passage of this ordinance. It shall be published once
with the names of the Board of Supervisors voting for and against the ordinance in a newspaper of
general circulation published in the County of Humboldt, State of California.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 22nd day of July, 2014 on the following vote, to

(SEAL)

ATTEST:

Kathy Hayes,

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Humboldt, State of California

wit.

AYES:	Supervisors	Sundberg, Lovelace, Bohn, Fennell,	Bass

NOES:	Supervisors

ABSENT:	Supervisors

REX BOHN, Chair of the Board of Supervisors
of the County of Humboldt, State of California

Ana Hartwell, Deputy

Chapter 8

§ 718-1.

§ 718-2.

§ 718-3.

§ 718-4.

§ 718-5.

§ 718-6.

§ 718-7.

§ 718-8.

§ 718-9.

§ 718-10.
§ 718-11.
§ 718-12.
§ 718-13.
§ 718-14.
§ 718-15.
§ 718-16.
§ 718-17.
§ 718-18.

- Transactions and Use Tax to be Administered by the State Board of
Equalization

Title.

Operative Date.

Purpose.

Contract with State.

Transactions Tax Rate.

Place of Sale.

Use Tax Rate.

Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.
Permit Not Required.

Exemptions and Exclusions.

Amendments.

Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

Severability.

Effective Date.

Termination Date.

Advisory Committee.

Compliance with the California Environmental Quality Control
Act (CEQA).

505.1

TITLE VII - FINANCE, REVENUE AND TAXATION

DIVISION 1
REVENUE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 8

TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

718-1.	TITLE.

This ordinance shall be known as the Humboldt County Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance. The County of Humboldt hereinafter shall be called "County".
This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the County. lord. . §	.	/	/2014)

718-2.	OPERATIVE	DATE.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of
such adoption being as set forth below. (ord. , §	,	/	/2014)

718-3.	PURPOSE.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes. (Ord. , §	.	/	/2o14)

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with

the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285 of Part 1.7 of Division 2
which authorizes the County to adopt this tax by a 2/3 vote of the Board
of Supervisors which shall be operative if a majority of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election held pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285 and
Government Code Section 53723. (Ord. , §	/	/2014)

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that

incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of
the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent
with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code. (Ord. . §	.	/	/2014)

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes

a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes. (Ord.________. §	.	/

/2 014)

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

(Ord. . §	/	/2014)

CONTRACT WITH STATE.

§ 718-4

Prior to the operative date, the County shall contract with the State Board
of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
County shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract. (Qrd. . §	.	/	72014)

718-5.	TRANSACTIONS	TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax
is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the County at the rate of 0.5% of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory
on and after the operative date of this ordinance. (Qrd. . §	/	/2014)

718-6.	PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to an out-of-state destination or
to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization. (Qrd. . §	.	/

/ 2 014 )

718-7.	USE	TAX	RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption
in the County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption
in said territory at the rate of 0.5% of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charpes are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. (Qrd. , §
/	/2Q14)

718-8.	ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (cominencincr with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part
of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein. (Qrd. , §	/	/2014)

718-9.	LIMITATIONS	ON	ADOPTION	OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE

TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:	(Qrd.	.	§	.	/	/2014)

523.13

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this County shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:	(Ord.	.	§	.	/	/2014)

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the

State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State
Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California; (Ord. , §	/	/2014)

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be

taken by or against this County or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Egualization,
in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance. (Ord. . §	,	/	/2014)

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited

to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:	(Ord.

. §	/	/	2	014 )

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain ,	sales, storaqe, use or other consumption of tanqible
personal	property which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax	while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of	
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;	
(Ord.	i—1  O  CN  \  \  Uh
b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales.
storage,	use or other consumption of tangible personal
property	which would not be subject to tax by the state under

the said provision of that code. (Ord. , §	,	/	/2014)

4.	In Sections 6701,	6702	(except	in	the	last	sentence

thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code. (Ord. , §	/	/2014)

B. The word "County" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the
phrase ''retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in

the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.	(Ord.	§	/ /2014)
718-10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.			
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under		Section 6067 of	

the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
reguired by this ordinance. (Ord. , §	,	/	/2014)

718-11.	EXEMPTIONS	AND	EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions

tax and use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the
State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to
the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax. (Ord. . §	.	/	/2014)

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of

transactions tax the gross receipts from:	(Ord. . §	,	/	/2014)

523.14

§ 718-11

1 . Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the County in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government. (Ord.

. §	.	/ / 2 o 14)

2. Sales of property to be used outside the County which is
shipped to a point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of
sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his or her agent,
or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the county shall be satisfied:	(Ord.

. §	/	/2014)	...

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial

vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-county address and
by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and (Ord. . §	,	/	/2o14)

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration

to a place of business out-of-county and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will
be operated from that address. ord. , §	,	/	/2014)

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is

obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.
(Ord. . §	/	/2014)

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor
is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease

prior to the operative date of this ordinance. (Ord.________. §	,	/

/2014)

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this

section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised. (Ord. , §	,	/	/2014)

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance,
the storage, use or other consumption in this County of tangible personal
property:	(Ord. , §	/	/2014)

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and
use tax ordinance. (Ord. . §	.	/	/2014)

§ 718-11

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by

operators of aircraft and used	or consumed	by	such	operators

directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign

government ■____This exemption is	in addition	to	the exemptions

provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the State of California.	(Ord. . §	.	/	/2014)

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for

a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.	(Ord. , §	.	/	/2014)

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power

over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is
a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.
(Ord. , §	/	/ 2 014)

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this

section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised. (Ord. , §	,	/

/2014)

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged

in business in the County shall not be reguired to collect use tax
from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or
participates within the County in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the
retailer in the County or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the
authority of the retailer. (Ord. , §	,	/	/20i4)

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the County" shall also

include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax
from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the County. (Ord. , §	,	/	/2014)

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions
tax paid to a County imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or

other consumption of which is subject to the use tax. (Ord._______, §	,	/

/2014)

523.16

AMENDMENTS.

§ 718-12

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part
1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes
and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance. (Ord. . § . / /2014)

718-13.	ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
County, or against any officer of the State or the County, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord.

. §	/	/2014)

718-14.	SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby. (Ord. . §	.	/	/2014)

718-15.	EFFECTIVE DATE.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the County
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately. (Ord. , §	,	/

/2014)

718-16.	TERMINATION	DATE.

This ordinance will terminate on March 31, 2020. lord. . §	.	/	/2014)

718-17.	ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

The Board of Supervisors shall, no later than March 1, 2015, establish by
resolution an advisory committee that will make recommendations to the Board of
Supervisors as to expenditure of funds derived from this tax. (Ord. , §

/	/2014)

718-18.	COMPLIANCE WITH THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY

CONTROL ACT (CEQA).

The purpose of this sales and use tax ordinance is to establish a
government funding mechanism for general County purposes and the County is not
committing to a course of action with respect to the tax revenue and therefore
the ordinance is not a "project" subject to CEQA as defined in Section 15378,
subdivision (b) (4), of the CEQA Guidelines. (Ord. . §	,	/	/2014)

523.17

[Next page is 524]