From Ballotpedia:

Ballot question

The question on the ballot:

To replace the previous voter-approved expiring library
special tax, shall El Dorado County levy the amount of
$20.00 annually per parcel (with annual inflation
adjustment not to exceed 3%) within County Service
Area No. 10 Georgetown Divide Zone of Benefit, Zone
G, for a period of twelve (12) years commencing in
fiscal year 2015/16, to preserve continued funding for
library services, hours, and operations and help avoid
library closure?I2M1

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis of Measure G was prepared by the office of the county
counsel:^

Measure G, if approved by 2/3 of the qualified voters voting on this measure, would
authorize a special tax on parcels of real property within the Georgetown Divide Zone
of Benefit, Zone G, of County Service Area No. 10 ("Zone"), to be used solely to
provide library services and facilities within the Zone ("Library Special Tax").

The proposed new Library Special Tax would replace the expiring special parcel tax
and would be used for the same purpose of supporting the county's Georgetown
library. Currently, property owners within the Zone pay a voter approved annual
special parcel tax for library services in the amount of $18.00 per parcel of improved
and unimproved land, $14.40 per apartment unit on a parcel, and $9.00 per mobile
home on a parcel. The existing special parcel tax expires, by its terms, on June 30,
2015.

The proposed new Library Special Tax would be in the amount of $20.00 per year per
parcel of improved and unimproved land, subject to a maximum annual inflation
adjustment of 3%, and would be in effect for twelve years commencing July 1, 2015
and ending June 30, 2027.

The proposed new Library Special Tax will be listed as a separate item on the county
property tax bill for each affected parcel of land, and will be collected in the same way
as the general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement
of county property taxes will be applicable to the special tax.

Measure G also requires that an annual report be made to the County Board of
Supervisors indicating the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of
any project required or authorized to be funded by the proceeds. This measure was
placed on the ballot by Resolution No. 011-2014 of the El Dorado County Board of
Supervisors.

This measure requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of all qualified voters voting
on the measure in order to pass.

A "YES" vote is a vote to authorize the special tax provided in the measure. A "NO"
vote is a vote against the special tax provided in the measure.^*

—Edward L. Knapp, El Dorado County Counsel^

Support

Supporters

The following individuals signed the official arguments in favor of Measure G:^

•	Karen Shadle, retired school teacher, principal and educator

•	Susan Whittington, school principal, teacher and educator

•	Linnea Marenco, president of Divide Chamber of Commerce

•	Buzz Chemoff, president of American River Folk Society

•	Cornelius O'Quinn, president of Marshall Grange 451

Arguments in favor
Official arguments

The following official arguments were submitted in support of Measure G:*^1

Special Tax for Library District G

Support our Library. Vote YES on Measure G.

Funding for the Georgetown Library, passed by the Georgetown Divide voters twenty
years ago, is about to expire - at a time when reading, technology, education, and
literacy are more important than ever before. For only $20 per parcel, per year we can
maintain the funding that has kept our library open 5 days per week, put new books on
our shelves and provided programs that promote the importance of reading for
children.

This special tax will continue the tax voters have previously approved two times.

This measure PROTECTS Georgetown Library funding - it cannot be diverted to other
county programs. All money raised by this special tax will be returned to the
Georgetown Library to pay for books and materials, hours of operation, and library
services.

Measure G includes a mechanism to increase our library funding as costs go up, but the
special tax will never be more than $28.50 per parcel, per year. This measure will
expire after 12 years.

With these funds, our local library will be able to maintain the hours it is currently
open and to purchase new books. Children's storytimes, public computers, special
events, and other valuable programs will be continued. The Georgetown Library is an
irreplaceable asset for the whole community. Passing Measure G ensures continued
access to the wide variety of programs and services currently offered to everyone. We
must make our library a priority.

Please join us in protecting our library and vote YES on Measure G.^

—Karen Shadle, Susan Whittington, Linnea Marenco, Buzz Chernoff and Cornelius O'Quinn^1

Opposition

No official arguments were submitted in opposition to Measure G. If you have an argument that
you would like to see posted here, please email the Local Ballot Measure Project staff writer.