CITY OF FORTUNA BUDGET STABILIZATION MEASURE V
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City Council of the City of Fortuna placed Measure V on the ballot to ask
the City's voters to approve a one percent (1.00%) transactions and use tax. The
proposed tax would add a penny to the price of an item that costs a dollar.

8ecause Measure V would not limit the use of tax revenue, it is a "general tax,"
not a "special tax" that restricts the funds to specific purposes. Therefore, the City
may use the funds for any legitimate governmental purpose. At the time that the
City Council called for an election on Measure V, it also found that the revenue
from the measure would provide a source of funding to address community
priorities including: maintaining police protection services; maintaining 9-1-
1 and emergency response: maintaining rapid response to illegal drug use;
maintaining local business support and community event services; and restoring
cuts to police protection.

The measure would authorize the City Council, by a four-fifths vote, to terminate
the tax at any time.

Measure V would require the formation of an independent community oversight
committee to review the expenditure of the revenue from the tax. The committee
would consist of five members appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council. Separately, the Cityls independent auditors would annually prepare a
separate accounting of the revenue received from the tax and the expenditures of
revenue to be included the City’s audited financial statements.

Currently, the total "sales tax" rate in Fortuna is 7.5%. The City's share is only

0.75% of that 7.5%.

Technically, the proposed measure is a “transactions and use tax." A transactions
and use tax is levied on the same purchases as the existing sales tax, with some
minor exceptions. Retailers and other merchants collect the tax at the time of sale
and remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.
The State Board of Equalization then transmits the funds collected to the City.

Measure V would authorize a 1% transactions and use tax, increasing the total
sales tax rate in Fortuna to 8.5%. Revenue from the tax would go to the City's
general fund and be available to support the full range of municipal services.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve a one-cent sales tax with annual review by
independent auditors and a community oversight committee. A “No" vote is a
vote against the tax. Measure V would be approved if it received a simple majority
of “Yes" votes.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure V. If you desire a copy of
the ordinance or measure, please call the City Clerk's office at 707/725-1409 or
ljensen@ci.fortuna.ca.us and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

DATED: July 29,2014

David Tranberg, City Attorney
City of Fortuna

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V
CITY OF FORTUNA BUDGET STABLIZATION MEASURE

Vote YES on V- create jobs and a thriving local economy with funds that can't
be taken by Sacramento!

Our tradition of fiscal prudence has helped Fortuna avoid the budget problems of
other cities. But now, Sacramento money grabs have taken their toll and no one
else will help us unless we help ourselves. YES on V provides local funding -
Sacramento, federal and county government won't be able to touch a dime of this
money!

Our region used to thrive with industries such as timber and fishing. But now
those industries are gone. YES on V provides the local funding our city and its
businesses need to create jobs and a thriving local economy.

Stop the regional drug culture threatening to make its way to Fortuna! YES on V
helps restore cuts ana gives our Fortuna Police force the officers and tools to keep
our children away from drugs, reduce crime and keep our City safe.

YES on V gives Fortuna a fiscally responsible solution to our budget problems.
YES on V supports small businesses in the City, while sustaining our property
values.

YES on V hires a police officer for the County drug prevention task force to help
keet) the drug culture out of Fortuna.

YES on V restores a school police officer to assist with disturbances and
preventing drug use.

YES on V supports events like the Fortuna Rodeo and AutoXpo, bringing more
events and visitors to our City.

YES on V is fiscally accountable! By law, funds are spent locally in Fortuna,
and cannot be taken by Sacramento politicians. Annual independent financial
audits and an Independent Citizens’ Review committee will monitor spending and
ensure funds are used as promised to you, the voter.

For factual information, visit www.friendlyfortuna.com/. Join us in supporting
YES on V!

/s/ Douglas F. Strehl, Mayor of Fortuna

/s/ Robert E. Johnson, President, Fortuna Pharmacy Inc.

/s/ James N. Stanfield, Concerned Citizen
/s/ Corinne L. Stanfield, Citizen
/s/ Chuck Acridge

BT6

BT6

As a citizen of Fortuna, I would like to voice my opposition to the proposed
increase to our city's sale tax. We have been promoting our city as a place to do
business. We need to focus on being viewed as a business friendly city. Lets not
be short-sighted!

Raising our sales tax to a rate higher than local surrounding cities will dissuade
businesses from considering Fortuna as a place to locate. Raising the cityfs
sales tax is an ill-considered idea Recently, two new businesses have come to
Fortuna with another business adding a large amount of sales space.. This will
certainly add to sales tax revenue without adding any additional sales tax to our
purchases.

Do most families in Fortuna have to live within a budget? You bet they do! Even
with a $5million surplus, the city leaders want you to dig deeper into your pocket
so that they can spend more.

Of course, the excuse to raise taxes is public safety! But apparently, the biggest
objective of the tax increase is to build an even bigger surplus than we already
have.

Just sayNO! NO to increasing the sales tax in Foruna!

NO to the Fortuna Budget Stabilization Measure!

/s/ Daniel Coleman

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V
CITY OF FORTUNA BUDGET STABLIZATION MEASURE

Vote No on Measure V unless you dont mind city leaders taking more of your hard
earned cash to spend as they see fit! Every time you make a taxable purchase, the
city will be there to add to your purchase cost.

The recent recession is now over. Spending is up again along with increased tax
revenue. The city will be receiving more revenue without the need to increase the
cost to our residents on every taxable purchase.

If Measure V passes, we will be paying a higher sales tax than Eureka. Let’s hang
on to our reputation as the business friendly city. Right now, with our lower sales
tax rate, the Friendly City is a very attractive place in which to make purchases.
Let’s not lose our edge!

If V passes, the Measure can be repealed at any time if 4 out of the 5 Council
Members vote in favor of the repeal. Do you seriously believe that will ever
happen? Our city needs to focus on attracting new businesses to our community
not adding a new sales tax burden.

Just say NO! NO to increasing the sales tax in Foruna! NO to the Fortuna Budget
Stabilization Measure!

/s/Daniel Coleman

BT6

BT6

Measure V is Pro-Business/Fiscally Responsible
Vote YES!

Measure V was developed to support Fortuna's businesses, and is
supported by our business community. Our business and Chamber leaders
assisted in the development of Measure V before it was placed on the ballot.

YES on V provides a strong foundation for Fortuna's long-term economic
revitalization that maintains our property values and supports our economic
revitalization. To offset the loss of industries such as timber and fishing,
YES on V provides the local funding our Gty and its businesses need to
create jobs and a thriving local economy.

Fortuna has made 10% across the board operational cuts for the past 3 years,
cutting staffing to a bare minimum and draining reserves to fill budget gaps.
We can't sustain any more cuts or allow our emergency reserves to drop to
dangerous levels! YES on V maintains the essential services you expect and
deserve, such as public safety services and local events that bring visitors to
Fortuna to patronize our businesses!

Remember- businesses won't locate or succeed in unsafe, fiscally unstable
environments. Funding generated bvYES on V keeps the regional drug culture
out of Fortuna and gives our Police Officers the tools and law enforcement
personnel needed to keep our City safe and businesses flourishing.

Measure V. by law, requires that funds be spent only in Fortuna. It is subject
to strict Fiscal Accountability protections. Sacramento can’t touch a dime.

Join business leaders and Fortuna Police Officers-vote YES on V!

/s/ Christina Taylor, President - HOPS in Humboldt

Is/ Erin Dunn, uEO Fortuna Chamber of Commerce

/s/ Clif Clendenen, Owner, Clendenen's Cider Works

/s/ Charles Eliebrecht, President, Fortuna Police Employees Association

/s/ Robert Crane, President C. Crane

BT6

BT6

RECEIVED

JUL 0 8 2014

RESOLUTION NO. 2014-27

HUMBOLDT COUNTY
ELECTIONS

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FORTUNA ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO
THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF FORTUNA A CERTAIN MEASURE RELATING TO A
PROPOSED ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 3.13 TO THE FORTUNA MUNICIPAL CODE IMPOSING A ONE-
PERCENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE (“SALES”) TAX FOR GENERAL PURPOSES AT THE GENERAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,2014, AS CALLED BY RESOLUTION NO.
2014-26, DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF THE MEASURE;
SETTING THE DATES FOR ARGUMENTS ON THE MEASURE AND REQUESTING THE BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF HUMBOLDT TO CONSOLIDATE SAID ELECTION PURSUANT TO

SECTION 10403 OF THE ELECTIONS CODE

WHEREAS, the economic recession, declining revenues and continual State raids on local funds are impacting Fortuna’s
ability to provide necessary police, business programming, community event support, road maintenance, and other community
services; and

WHEREAS, the ongoing State budget crisis and its tendency to raid local funds threatens Fortuna’s long-term financial
stability; and

WHEREAS, over the past 3 years, Fortuna has cut operational budgets and reduced its workforce- impacting city services
including police protection and other city service; and

WHEREAS, illegal drugs and public safety are major issues for our community; and

WHEREAS, without additional general fund revenues, we are unable to address Fortuna’s ongoing public safety and
community service needs; and

WHEREAS, a local funding measure would provide a reliable, locally-controlled source of funds to address community
priorities including: maintaining police protection services; maintaining 9-1-1 response, and emergency medical response;
maintaining rapid response to illegal drug use; maintaining local business support and community event services; and restore
cuts to police protection; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters at the election a question relating the imposition of a one-percent
(one cent per dollar) transactions and use (“sales”) tax for general purposes; and

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election on Tuesday, November 4, 2014 has been called by Resolution No. 2014-26,
adopted on July 7,2014; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Fortuna desires that the County of Humboldt Elections Department conduct the
municipal election, pursuant to Elections Code Section 10403, to be held on November 4,2014; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FORTUNA DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE,
DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does order submitted to the voters at the
General Municipal Election of November 4,2014 the following question:

Fortuna Budget Stabilization Measure	
To offset state budget cuts and restore stability to Fortuna’s city budget; maintain 9-1-1 emergency response services; restore cuts to police protection, gang/drug prevention, and road/sidewalk maintenance; support local businesses, the Fortuna Rodeo and AutoXpo; and maintain other essential general services, shall the City of Fortuna establish a one cent sales tax, requiring independent annual financial audits and public review, with all funds remaining in Fortuna?	Yes
	No

SECTION 2. The proposed measure submitted to the voters is attached as Exhibit A. The City Council hereby
approves the ordinance, the form thereof, and its submission to the voters of the City at the November 4, 2014 General
Municipal Election, as required by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9. The ordinance specifies that the rate
of the transactions tax shall be one percent (1%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in the City; it specifies that the rate of the use tax shall be one percent (1%) of the sales
price of tangible personal property stored, used or otherwise consumed in the City. The State Board of Equalization
shall collect the tax from retailers subject to the tax and remit the funds to the City.

SECTION 3. In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as provided
by law for holding municipal elections, including but not limited to Elections Code section 10418.

SECTION 4. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the Elections Code, the City Council of the City of
Fortuna hereby requests the Board of Supervisors of the County of Humboldt to agree to the consolidation of the
Municipal Election with the Statewide General Election on November 4, 2014 and issue instructions to the Humboldt
County Elections Department that the election in all respects be held as if there were only one election and to conduct
the Municipal Election including the publishing of all election materials, the mailing of sample ballots, the hiring of
election officers, canvassing the returns, and the actual conduct of the election.

SECTION 5.

a.	The last day for submission of primary arguments for or against the measure shall be by 5:00 p.m. on August

12.2014.

b.	The last day for submission of rebuttal arguments for or against the measure shall be by 5:00 p.m. on August

19.2014.

c.	Primary arguments shall not exceed three hundred (300) words and shall be signed by not more than five
persons.

d.	Rebuttal arguments shall not exceed two hundred fifty (250) words and shall be signed by not more than five
persons; those persons may be different persons than the persons who signed the primary arguments.

e.	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9282, Mayor Douglas Strehl is hereby authorized to file a
written argument in favor of the proposed measure on behalf of the City Council. At Mayor Strehls’s discretion,
the argument may be signed by members of the City Council or bona fide associations or by individual voters
who are eligible to vote on the measure. In the event that an argument is filed against the measure, Mayor Strehl
is also authorized to file a rebuttal argument on behalf of the City Council, which may be signed by members of
the City Council or bona fide associations or by individual voters who are eligible to vote on the measure, which
may be different from those who signed the primary argument.

f.	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9285, when the City Clerk has selected the arguments for and
against the measure, which will be printed and distributed to the voters, the City Clerk shall send copies of the
argument in favor of the measure to the authors of the argument against, and copies of the argument against to the
authors of the argument in favor. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the primary
arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the primary argument, which it seeks to rebut.

g.	Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9280, the City Council hereby directs the City Clerk to
transmit a certified copy of the measure to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial
analysis of the measure, not to exceed 500 words in length, showing the effect of the measure on the existing law
and the operation of the measure, and file the impartial analysis with the City Clerk by August 19, 2014.

SECTION 6. The City of Fortuna recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by the County by reason of this
consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County of Humboldt for all costs associated with the conduct of the City of
Fortuna’s municipal election to be held on November 4,2014; and

SECTION 7. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City Clerk is authorized,
instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election, in time, form and manner as required by
law.

SECTION 8. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution and enter it into the
book of original Resolutions.

SECTION 9. The approval of this Resolution is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Public
Resources Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA,” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). The
transactions and use tax to be submitted to the voters is a general tax that can be used for any legitimate governmental
purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), the
tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA because it creates a government funding mechanism that does not
involve any commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose that would have either such effect, the city would
undertake the required CEQA review for that particular project. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section
15060 CEQA analysis is not required.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED the City Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the Humboldt County Registrar of Voters.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 7th day of July, 2014, by the following vote:

AYES: Council Member Glaser, Long, Trent, Mayor Pro Tern Losey, Mayor Strehl
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

ATTEST:

I hereby certify, under the penalty of perjury that
the above and foregoing is a true and correct copy
of the original on deposit within the records of the
City of Fortune. In witness whereof, I have

City of Fortuna this &T day oKT/j/l/ I OjV

hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

RECEIVED

JUL 0 8 2014

EXHIBIT A	HUMBOLDT	COUNTY

ORDINANCE 2014-713	ELECTIONS

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FORTUNA
TO LEVY A LOCAL, CITY OF FORTUNA TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The People of the City of Fortuna do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. ADDITION TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE. Chapter 3.13 is added to Title 3 of the Fortuna
Municipal Code to read as follows:

CHAPTER 3.13: FORTUNA BUDGET STABILIZATION MEASURE TRANSACTION AND USE
(SALES) TAX.

Section 3.13.010. TITLE. This Chapter shall be known as the “Fortuna Budget Stabilization
Measure Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax Ordinance.” The City of Fortuna hereinafter shall be
called “City.” This chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3.13.020. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance and approval
by the voters.

Section 3.13.030. PURPOSE. This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transaction and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides
a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation form,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collection the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provision of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

Section 3.13.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration

and operation of this transactions and use tax chapter; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to operative date, it shall nevertheless so
contract and in such a case the Operative Date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

Section 3.13.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of
the City at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the Operative Date of this
chapter.

Section 3.13.060.	PLACE OF SALE.	For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are

consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of state destination. The gross receipts from sales include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has
more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

Section 3.13.070.	USE TAX RATE.	An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,

use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on
and after the Operative Date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place
to which delivery is made.

Section 3.13.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provision of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part
of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.13.090.	LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION

OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution
of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by
the State under the provision of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the
said provision of that code.

4.	In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

Section 3.13.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit
shall not be required by this chapter.

Section 3.13.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law of the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840)
of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage, use or
other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transaction tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time
for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
Operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable
for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

Section 3.13.120. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date
of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this chapter, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter.

Section 3.13.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court
against the State or City or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any
tax or any amount of tax required to collected.

Section 3.13.140	SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application

thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 3.13.150 USE OF TAX PROCEEDS. Ail proceeds of the tax levied and
imposed under this chapter shall be paid into the General Fund for use by the City of Fortuna.

Section 3.13.170 INDEPENDENT ANNUAL AUDIT. Annually the City Council retains
an independent auditor to conduct an audit of and provide audited financial statements for all of the
City’s financial activities. The auditor shall include an accounting of the revenue received from the
tax and expenditures thereof in the audited financial statements. The auditor’s report shall be
presented to the Council and the committee established by Section 3.13.180 and made available to
the public.

Section 3.13.180 INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. The City
Council shall, no later than December 31, 2015, establish an independent community oversight
committee to review the expenditure of the revenue from this transactions and use (sales) tax. The
committee shall consist of five members to be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council. The terms of the committee members and their specific duties shall be established by
resolution of the City Council.

Section 3.13.190 AMENDMENTS OF CHAPTER: RESCISSION OF TAX.

A. The following amendments to this Chapter must be approved by the voters of the
City of Fortuna: increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the tax such that

a tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not previously subject to the
tax (unless such amendment occurs automatically by operation of Section 3.13.120); or extending
the tax. The City Council may otherwise amend this ordinance without submitting the amendment
to the voters for approval.

B. The City Council may, with a four-fifth’s vote of the entire Council, rescind this
ordinance and terminate the tax at any time and without voter approval.

SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

SECTION 3. CERTIFICATION: PUBLICATION. Upon approval by the voters, the City Clerk shall
certify to the passage and adoption of this ordinance and shall cause it to be published according to taw and
transmitted to the Board of Equalization.

SECTION 4. COMPLIANCE WITH THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT. The
approval of this Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources
Code §§ 21000 et seq., “CEQA” and 14 Cal. Code Reg. §§ 15000 et seq., “CEQA Guidelines”). The
transactions and use tax enacted by this Ordinance is a general tax that can be used for any legitimate
governmental purpose; it is not a commitment to any particular action. As such, under CEQA Guidelines
section 15378(b)(4), the tax is not a project within the meaning of CEQA because it creates a government
funding mechanism that does not involve any commitment to any specific project that may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. If revenue from the tax were used for a purpose
that would have either such effect, the city would undertake the required CEQA review for that particular
project. Therefore, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15060 CEQA analysis is not required.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of Fortuna on November 4, 2014:

YESES:

NOES:

ADOPTED by Declaration of the November 4, 2014 election results by the City Council of the City of
Fortuna at a regular meeting held on	   .	2014, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Douglas Strehl, MAYOR

ATTEST:	APPROVED	AS	TO	FORM:

Linda Jensen, City Clerk

David Tranberg, City Attorney