Measure A

Parcel Tax Renewal
Cupertino Union School District

Parcel Tax - 2/3 Approval Required

OFFICIAL FINAL RESULTS

Without increasing the current tax rates, to protect outstanding core academic
programs in reading, writing, math and science, retain highly qualified teachers,
provide updated classroom technology for a 21st Century education, keep libraries
up-to-date, and retain music and art programs, shall Cupertino Union School
District consolidate/renew its existing $250 education parcel tax, without increase,
for eight years with citizen oversight, no funds for administrators' salaries, exempt
senior citizens, and all funds staying in local schools?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:

A "yes" vote is a vote to consolidate the existing Measure B and Measure C parcel
taxes and to renew a qualified special tax of $250 per parcel on parcels within
the District for eight years.

A NO vote on this measure means:

A "no" vote is a vote to not consolidate the existing Measure B and Measure C
parcel taxes and to not renew a qualified special tax of $250 per parcel on
parcels within the District for eight years.

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel

A school district may levy a special tax upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on a proposal pursuant to section 4 of article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and sections 50075 et seq. of the California Government Code.

On May 9, 2009, voters within the Cupertino Union School District (District) approved
Measure B, an elementary school parcel tax of $125, which expires June 30, 2015. On
May 3, 2011 the voters within the District approved Measure C, a second school parcel
tax of $125, which expires June 30, 2017.

The District's Board of Education (the Board) proposes Measure A, renewing and
consolidating the Measure B and C parcel taxes, and maintaining the same tax rate
previously approved by both measures. If Measure A is approved, an eight-year
consolidated parcel tax of $250 per parcel per year, will commence on July 1,2015 and
expire on June 30,2023. If Measure A is approved, Measure C will terminate on July 1,
2015.

The proposed tax exempts any parcel that is a principal residence of, and owned by, one
or more persons 65 years of age or older, and persons receiving supplemental social
security income for a disability, regardless of age. Any person, who currently receives
an exemption under Measure B or Measure C, will automatically qualify for an
exemption from Measure A.

State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which the tax proceeds
will be used and only spend the proceeds of the tax for these purposes. The stated
purposes of the tax proposed by Measure A are to (1) protect core academic programs
in reading, writing, math and science; [2) retain highly qualified teachers; (3) keep
schools safe, clean and well-maintained; (4] keep libraries up-to-date and retain music
and art programs; and (5) provide updated classroom technology for a 21st Century
education.

The District is required by law to provide additional accountability measures for the
proceeds. These measures include (1] depositing the proceeds into a fund that is
separate and apart from other District funds; and (2) providing an annual written
report to the Board detailing the amount of funds collected and expended and the status
of any project authorized to be funded from the tax. The District will maintain its
existing Citizens' Oversight Committee, which will provide oversight regarding the
expenditure of the proceeds of the proposed tax revenues and submit an annual report
to the Board on the expenditure of these funds.

A "yes" vote is a vote to consolidate the existing Measure B and Measure C parcel taxes
and to renew a qualified special tax of $250 per parcel on parcels within the District for
eight years.

A "no" vote is a vote to not consolidate the existing Measure B and Measure C parcel
taxes and to not renew a qualified special tax of $250 per parcel on parcels within the
District for eight years.

Orry P. Korb
County Counsel

By: /s/ Susan Swain
Lead Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure A

Vote YES on Measure A to protect top-quality education in the Cupertino Union School
District without increasing taxes.

We are proud of our award-winning elementary and middle schools which provide a
high-quality education for local students in Cupertino, Saratoga, Los Altos, Sunnyvale,
San Jose and Santa Clara. In fact, our local schools are some of the highest achieving in
the State.

Since 2009, our communities have overwhelmingly supported our local elementary and
middle schools through voter-approved education funding. Now, this critical source of
school funding will expire unless voters choose to renew it. Our schools are among the
highest achieving in the state, which draws new families to our communities and keeps
our property values strong.

Measure A does not increase taxes, it simply renews existing funding to retain highly
qualified teachers and maintain our outstanding core academic programs.

All Measure A funds will go directly to supporting student achievement in our local
schools - the state cannot take a single penny.

Vote YES on A Continue Top-quality Education for Local Students.

•	Protect outstanding core academic programs in reading, writing math and science

•	Retain highly qualified teachers

•	Keep schools safe, clean and well-maintained

•	Keep libraries up-to-date and retain music and art programs

•	Provide updated classroom technology for a 21 st-century education

Measure A: Great Schools, Without Increasing Taxes

•	Every penny is spent here in our local schools and can't be taken by the state

•	Independent citizen oversight continues to ensure funds are spent as promised

•	No funds for administrators' salaries

•	Expires in eight years and cannot be renewed without voter approval

•	Senior citizens can receive an exemption

Your YES vote is critical to supporting local elementary students and keeping our
schools on top. Join parents, seniors and community leaders in voting YES on Measure
A.

/s/ Steve Ting

Community Leader, 27-Year Cupertino Resident
/s/ Dianne McKenna

Former Sunnyvale Mayor and Santa Clara County Supervisor
/s/ Dawn Ying

Cupertino/Fremont/Sunnyvale Council PTA President
/s/ Richard Lowenthal

Former Cupertino Mayor, Small Business Executive
/s/ Anita Amarnath

14-Year Teacher, Former District Teacher of the Year
(No arguments against Measure A were submitted)

Full Text of Measure A

CUPERTINO UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
Quality Local Schools and Academic Excellence Funding Measure A

INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

To provide local reliable funding for local schools that cannot be taken by the State, to
protect strong core academic programs in reading, writing, math and science, keep schools
safe and well-maintained, keep libraries up-to-date and retain music and art programs,
provide updated classroom technology for a 21st Century education, and retain highly
qualified teachers, with no proceeds used for administrative salaries and benefits, the
Cupertino Union School District ("District") proposes to consolidate, renew and extend its
two existing quality local schools and academic excellence parcel tax measures. Measure B
and Measure C, for a period of eight years from Measure B's current expiration date (June
30, 2015), starting on July 1, 2015 at the existing combined rate of $250 per parcel per
year, with an exemption available for senior citizens and certain disabled persons, and to
implement strict accountability measures, including review by an independent citizen
oversight committee to ensure the funds are used to:

•	Protect core academic programs in reading, writing, math and science;

•	Retain highly qualified teachers;

•	Keep schools safe, clean and well-maintained;

•	Keep libraries up-to-date and retain music and art programs; and

•	Provide updated classroom technology for a 21st Century education.

AMOUNT OF PARCEL TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT

The quality local schools and academic excellence parcel tax shall be $250 (or less as
provided below) per year, commencing July 1, 2015 for eight years, assessed against each
Parcel. The proceeds of the parcel tax shall be deposited into a separate account created by
the District.

DEFINITION OF ’’PARCEL"

For purposes of the quality local schools and academic excellence parcel tax, the term
"Parcel" means any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the
Cupertino Union School District, that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property
taxes from the Santa Clara County Assessor/Tax Collector. All property that is otherwise
exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the quality local schools and academic excellence parcel tax in such year.

For purposes of this quality local schools and academic excellence parcel tax, any such
"Parcels" which are (i) contiguous, and (ii) used solely for owner-occupied, single-family
residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership may, by submitting an
application of the owners thereof by June 15 of any year to the District, be treated as a single
"parcel" for purposes of the levy of the quality local schools and academic excellence parcel
tax.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS AND SSI RECIPIENTS

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079 (b), any owners of a Parcel used
solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes and who are either (a) 65 years
of age or older on or before June 30 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the year in

which the tax would apply, or (b) persons receiving Supplemental Security Income for a
disability, regardless of age, may obtain an exemption from the parcel tax by submitting an
application therefore, by June 15 of any year, to the District. Persons currently exempted
from the District's expiring Measure B parcel tax and the District's Measure C parcel tax
which will lapse on June 30, 2015 if this Measure is approved, shall automatically be
exempted from this Measure without having to file a new application.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction, the Santa Clara
County Tax Collector, or other appropriate County tax officials shall make all final
determinations of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and
binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the quality local schools and
academic excellence parcel tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption and the
classification of property for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of the District
shall be final and binding.

REDUCTION IN TAX IF RESULT IS LESS OTHER GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

The collection of the quality local schools and academic excellence parcel tax is not
intended to decrease or offset any increase in local, state or federal government revenue
sources that would otherwise be available to the District during the period of the parcel tax.
In the event that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District may cease the
levy or shall reduce the parcel tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount of
the decrease or offset in other revenues.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and
50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the parcel tax
levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the parcel tax shall be
those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the parcel tax shall be applied only to
those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into
which the proceeds of the quality local schools and academic excellence parcel tax must be
deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the
District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the
quality local schools and academic excellence parcel tax and (ii) the status of any projects or
programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the core academic
instruction parcel tax, as identified above. In addition, the District will maintain its existing
Citizens' Oversight Committee which will provide oversight as to the expenditure of parcel
tax revenues. The oversight committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds by the
District and will report on an annual basis to the Board and the community on how these
funds have been spent.