Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the
authors.

Argument Against Measure S

Vote against the added 1 cent Hanford sales tax.

Hanford has always lived with its means. When tax dollars come into the general fund,
they are used to improve the quality of life for the citizens of Hanford. (Balanced budget)

This tax is not sustainable. The Hanford City Council proposes this 1 cent sales tax
increase for a period of 20 years. They tell us the new tax will raise $160,000,000.00
over 20 years and will then expire. If Hanford’s growth continues, the tax will raise
$240,000,000.00; and if you believe that the tax will expire, you are mistaken.

We are told the $240,000,000.00 will be used for a police station, fire stations and
employees to man them. 30 new employees will cost $3,000,000.00 per year and will
continue to cost about that amount when employees retire. If they work for 25 years,
they probably are retired for at least 25 years. So the real cost of 30 employees is
$6,000,000.00 per year of active employment, and we will have that cost long after the
“expiration” of the tax increase.

Political tricks are common. This particular trick is tried and true. If a city wants to
increase sales tax, all they have to do is mention Public Safety. They use all the right
buzz words, such as response times, drugs, gangs, etc. Don’t fall for it. Our politicians
want to double the City’s share of the sales tax. Don’t let them do it.

This is a General Sales Tax and not a Specific Sales Tax. The money can be used for
anything (salary increase) they don’t have to improve Public Safety.

There are other options to consider. Vote NO on Measure S and lets work together to
solve Hanford’s issues.

Dan Chin

August 15, 2014

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure S

Enough political rhetoric and funny math! Vote YES on S to keep Sacramento politicians away from
our money and our services! Don’t be fooled—YES on S keeps Hanford SAFE!

FACT: National standards for fire and medical emergency response call for response to calls within
five minutes, 90% of the time. Hanford Fire can only respond promptly 23% of the time—Vote YES
on S so first responders reach your family when you need them!

FACT: Sacramento politicians released more than 200 new parolees into Hanford. There are at least
five known criminal street gangs operating in our region, including the notorious Norteftos, Surenos
and Crips. YES on S stops gangs and gang-related crimes.

FACT: Since 2009, rapes are up 94% and thefts are up 34% in Hanford. YES on S expands police
protection services to fight thefts and violent crime.

FACT: YES on S includes tough Fiscal Accountability safeguards—we’ll all know where the money is
spent!

•	Sacramento bureaucrats and politicians won’t be able to spend a dime of this money. By law.
Measure S requires that every penny be spent here in Hanford, for OUR local services.

•	An Independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee of Hanford residents will monitor all spending
and issue public reports for the community’s review.

•	Measure S requires independent, annual financial audits and public review of expenditures.

Protect Hanford’s lives, safety and quality of life services — vote YES on S!

Christifer Barker,
Derek Weisser,
Faith Rose,

Norm Boyles,
Linda Silveira,

Hanford Police Officers Association

Hanford Firefighters Association

Neighborhood Watch Member

Retiree and 53 year Hanford resident and taxpayer

26 year Local Small Business Owner

The undersigned proponents or authors of the rebuttal argument to the argument against ballot
Measure S at the General Election for the City of Hanford to be held on November 4, 2014, hereby
state that such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

Signature 1	'

Print Name

Date ‘

Hanford Police Officer Association
Title

Signature
Print Name

Print Name

Hanford Firefighters Association
Title

Neighborhood Watch Member
Title

Date /	'

Retiree and 53 year Hanford resident and taxpayer
Title

- d^llf

Date' T T

26 year Local Small Business Owner
Title