MARIPOSA COUNTY RESOLUTION #14-338
PROPOSAL TO AMEND CHAPTER 3.36 OF COUNTY CODE
REGARDING THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX RATE

WHEREAS, Section 7280 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code
authorizes the Board of Supervisors of any County to impose what is commonly
known as a “transient occupancy tax,” which is a tax on the privilege of occupying a
room or rooms or other living space, in a hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel or
other lodging located within the County, unless the occupancy is for a period of more
than 30 days; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Chapter 3.36 of the Mariposa County Ordinance Code,
the County of Mariposa presently imposes such a transient occupancy tax at the rate
of ten- percent (10%) of the rent charged by operators of such lodging within the
County; and

WHEREAS, Section 2 of Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, and Section
53723 of the California Government Code, authorize the County to impose a general
tax upon a majority vote of the electorate; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9140 of the California Elections Code, this
Board may submit to the voters, without petition, a measure relating to the enactment
of any ordinance; and

WHEREAS, this Board deems it appropriate to propose to the electorate of the
County an amendment to Chapter 3.36 of the Mariposa County Ordinance Code to
increase the rate of tax on the privilege of occupying a room or rooms, or other living
space, in a hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, or other lodging located within the
unincorporated area of the County from ten-percent (10%) to eleven and one quarter-
percent (11.25%) of the rent charged by operators of such lodging in order to generate
additional revenue that will be placed in the General Fund for general County services
and functions.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Mariposa as follows:

1.	This Board hereby proposes that Chapter 3.36 of the Mariposa County
Ordinance Code be amended to increase the rate of tax provided for therein from ten-
percent (10%) to eleven and one quarter-percent (11.25%) of the rent charged by
operators of transient lodging in the County.

2.	An election shall be and is hereby ordered to be held, at which election
there shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the County the question of the

increase in the rate of tax set forth in Chapter 3.36 of the Mariposa County Ordinance
Code from ten-percent (10% ) to eleven and one quarter-percent (11.25%) of the rent
charged by operators of transient lodging in the County, said proposition to read as
follows:

“Shall Chapter 3.36 of the Mariposa County ordinance code be amended to
increase the rate of tax imposed on occupants of lodging within the County who
reside in such lodging for thirty consecutive calendar days or less, from ten-
percent (10%) to eleven and one quarter-percent (11.25%) of the rent charged
by operators of such lodging?”

3.	The Board of Supervisors does hereby submit to the qualified electors at
the regularly scheduled general election said measure as set forth in Paragraph 2 of
this resolution and designates and refers to said measure as the measure to be set
forth on the ballots for use at said election. The full text of the measure is as set forth
below in this Paragraph 3:

“Shall section 3.36.030 of Chapter 3.36 of the Mariposa County Ordinance
Code be amended in its entirety to read as follows:

3.36.030 Imposition of Tax.

“For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and
shall pay a tax in the amount of eleven and one quarter-percent (11.25%) of the
rent charged by the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient
to the county, which is extinguished only by payment to the operator, or to the
county. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time
the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the
tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the
transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is
not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax collector may require that such tax
be paid directly to the tax collector.”

4.	The County Clerk shall publish a notice of this election in accordance
with the Elections Code and give any other required notices.

5.	The following requirement shall apply to this election:

(a)	The election shall be held and conducted, the returns canvassed and
the result declared in the same manner as provided by law for general elections.

(b)	The election will be held on November 4, 2014, from the hour of 7:00
AM to the hour of 8:00 PM, during which period of time the polls will remain
continuously open. At 8:00 PM, the polls will be closed, except as provided in Section
14401 of the Elections Code.

(c)	The County Clerk shall prepare and mail to each eligible voter in the
County a sample ballot and a voter’s pamphlet containing the text of the measure as

indicated in Paragraph 2 above, the ordinance providing for the imposition of a
transient occupancy tax at the rate of eleven and one quarter-percent (11.25%) of the
rent charged by the operator.

(d)	The County Clerk shall establish election precincts, designate the
polling places and provide election officers for each precinct at the November 4, 2014,
election in accordance with the election laws of the State of California.

(e)	The election on the proposed measure shall be consolidated with any
and all other elections to be held on November 4, 2014.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Mariposa County Board of Supervisors a
political subdivision of the State of California on this 8th day of July 2014.

KEVIN CANN, Chairman

ATTEST:

NE LAROCHE, Clerk of the Board

APPROVED AS TO FORM: