CITY OF REDDING

MEASURE F

MEASURE F

’’Shall the City of Redding adopt a one-quarter cent transactions and use tax
to sunset in six years, for the special purpose of reducing crime and public
nuisances associated with effects of AB 109 and other criminal activity
by hiring additional police officers and personnel within Redding Police
Department; funding offender work programs; and funding incarceration
outside the County, to address problems associated with release of criminals
due to lack of jail space?”

Yes	No

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY OF MEASURE F

This measure, if approved, would enact an ordinance establishing a quarter-
cent (0.25%) transactions and use (sales) tax within the City of Redding,
automatically expiring in six years, unless extended by the voters. The tax
is a special tax requiring a 2/3 vote, with legal restrictions as to its use.
Revenue collected from the tax may only be used forthe purpose of reducing
crime and public nuisances associated with the effects of the Public Safety
Realignment Act (AB 109) and other criminal activity by hiring additional
police officers and other personnel within the Redding Police Department;
funding supervised offender work programs; and funding incarceration
outside of the County to address problems associated with premature
release of criminals from Shasta County Jail due to lack of local jail space.

This tax on retail sales is paid by non-residents as well as residents. Certain
necessities of life, including purchases of food or medicine, are exempt
from the tax. Technically, the existing sales tax is a combination of “sales
and use tax” and “transactions and use tax.” Retailers collect both taxes
at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization,
which administers the taxes. Both are levied on the retail sale or use of
personal property, with certain exceptions. A sales tax is allocated to the
jurisdiction where the sale is negotiated or the order for the sale is taken,
but a transactions and use tax is allocated to the City where the goods are
delivered or placed into use. Merchandise purchased in a “walk-in” retail
store is assumed by the state to be used within the city in which the store is
located, unless the retailer is asked to ship the merchandise outside the city
as part of the sale or it is a motor vehicle that can be driven away.

State and local tax on retail sales in Redding is currently 7.5% of the
purchase price. The Measure authorizes a 0.25% transactions and use tax,
increasing the total sales tax rate in Redding from 7.5% to 7.75%. Revenue
from the tax increase proposed by Measure F would go only to the City, and
not to the State or any other governmental entity. The City could contract
with others, including the County of Shasta, as the City Council deems
appropriate, to fund supervised offender work programs or out of County
incarceration. If approved, the 0.25% special tax could not be increased
or extended beyond six years unless there is a future vote of approval from
the electorate.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the additional quarter-cent tax. A “No”
vote is a vote against the tax. A full copy of the ordinance is printed in these
ballot materials.

Rick Duvernay
City Attorney

FISCAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE F

Measure F would authorize the City of Redding to collect a special
transactions and use tax (sales tax) of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%)
on certain retail transactions in the City of Redding for six years. The tax
revenue collected from Measure F would be deposited into a special and
segregated account to be used only to reduce crime and public nuisances
associated with the effects of Public Safety Realignment Act (AB 109) and

other criminal activity by funding: (a) additional police officers and other
personnel within the Redding Police Department; (b) supervised offender
work programs; and, (c) incarceration of offenders in out-of-county facilities.

The revenue from Measure F could only be used for the specific purposes
described in the proposed ordinance and ballot language. The revenue
must supplement, not supplant, existing expenditures. The City of Redding’s
financial statements are audited each year by an independent accounting
firm in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards.
The special and segregated account, one of several special revenue funds
of the City, will be subject to these same auditing standards.

I estimate that Measure F will generate approximately $5 million annually.
The amount of revenue may increase or decrease each year over the
six-year period due to inflation, general economic conditions, population
growth, or other factors. However, the actual sales tax rate of 0.25% cannot
be increased by the City Council during the six-year period. The sales tax
will automatically terminate after six years.

Dennice Maxwell
Director of Finance

ORDINANCE NO.____________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF REDDING ENACTING
A SPECIAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION,
SUBJECT TO ADOPTION BY THE ELECTORATE

The Council and People of the City of Redding, California, do ordain as
follows:

Section 1. The Redding Municipal Code is hereby amended by the
addition of a new Chapter 4.05 to read as follows:

4.05.010	TITLE.

This chapter shall be known as the City of Redding Special Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance of 2014. The City of Redding hereinafter shall be
called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory
of the City.

4.05.020	OPERATIVE DATE.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after November 4, 2014.

4.05.030	PURPOSE.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
these purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with
the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division
2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of
the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with
the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax that can be administered and collected by the State Board
of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to,

(Continued on Next Page)

and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can
be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

4.05.040 CONTRACT WITH STATE.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board
of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided that, if the
City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract, and, in such a case, the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract.

4.05.050	TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.05.060	PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to
a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business
in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

4.05.070	USE TAX RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption
in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on
and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.25 percent of the sales price
of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

4.05.080	ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, and except insofar as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted
and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

4.05.090 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However,
the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the
State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of

Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to
be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711,6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

4.05.100	PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

4.05.110	EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax
and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the
State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or
any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped
to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a
carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this
paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to
a place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,

(Continued on Next Page)

signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

5.	Forthe purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance,
the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal
property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States,
or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a
continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior
to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this
section, storage, use or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of
any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged
in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers
the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale
of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax
paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to

Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

4.05.120 AMENDMENTS TO STATE LAW.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part

1	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division

2	of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

4.05.130	ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

4.05.140	SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.

4.05.150	EFFECTIVE DATE AND SUBMISSION TO VOTERS.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of City transactions and
use taxes and shall take effect immediately. However, no tax imposed by
this ordinance shall be effective unless that tax has been approved by two-
thirds of the voters of the City as required by Section 2(d) of Article XIIIC of
the California Constitution and applicable law.

4.05.160	SUNSET OF TAX AND TERMINATION.

The Sales Tax imposed by the ordinance shall remain effective until the
soonest to occur of the following: (i) the City Council by a four-fifths vote
repeals, or the voters repeal, this ordinance; (ii) six (6) years from the
date the taxes imposed by this ordinance are first collected. However, as
required by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, no amendment to this
ordinance may increase the rates of the taxes above what is authorized by
this ordinance unless such amendment is submitted to and approved by
the voters.

4.05.170	EXPENDITURE PLAN.

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be accounted
for and paid into a special trust fund or account designated for use by the
City of Redding only for the special purpose of reducing crime and public
nuisances associated with the effects of the Public Safety Realignment Act
(AB 109) and other criminal activity by hiring additional police officers and
other personnel within the Redding Police Department; funding supervised
offender work programs; and funding incarceration outside of the County
all to address the problem of premature release of criminals from Shasta
County Jail due to lack of local jail space. It is the express intent of the
People that revenues collected hereunder shall supplement, rather than
supplant, existing City or County expenditures.

4.05.180 RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING TAX.

The tax imposed by this ordinance is separate from, and in addition to,
any transactions and use tax currently imposed by the City. Nothing in this
ordinance shall be interpreted to affect the rate or administration of any tax
other than the tax imposed by this ordinance.

(Continued on Next Page)

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

You the voter, can now choose our city’s destiny in managing the escalation
of crime within the City of Redding. Voting YES for Measure F will provide
our Police Department with the necessary additional resources to hold the
criminals accountable. Please understand the following key points of this
measure. The revenue can only be used, by law, for the stated purposes.
The revenue will be kept in a specialized and segregated account. The sales
tax will automatically terminate in 6 years. The cost is .25 cents for every
$100 of taxable items that you buy.

The State and Federal governments have both turned their backs on the
effects of what the prison realignment program has brought to Redding. Our
representatives have told us not to expect any help. AYES vote will collect
enough revenue to allow our Police Chief to hire more patrol and community
service officers for the purpose of arresting and processing these criminals.
Once apprehended, the resources will be in place to assure the public that
more criminals can be held until they are tried in court, and if and when
convicted, they can be assigned to work details to clean up our city. If they
refuse to work, they will then be sent to serve their sentences out of our
County. Currently, the criminals within our city know one thing: they will not
be held responsible for their actions. A YES vote for Measure F will hold
these criminals responsible for their crimes.

Do you want the crime within our City to continue or will you vote to give our
law enforcement the necessary resources to fight back against the prison-
trained criminals? Vote YES for Measure F and we can begin cleaning up
our City.

/s/ Ed Rullman, Business Owner

/s/ Missy McArthur, Redding City Council Member

/s/ Francie Sullivan, Vice Mayor

/s/ Rick Bosetti, Mayor

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Measure F is a perfect example of entrenched politicians asking taxpayers
to fix a mess they created. Years of overspending, the construction of
needless projects, and a failure to reign-in pension shortfalls have left them
no other choice than to ask you to break open your piggy bank; at least
that’s what they want you to believe. Truth be told, the City Council should
have scrutinized their budget and found ways to streamline operations
before asking to take your money.

Frankly, the City Council has a poor track record of stewardship over
the public’s money. Take for example the millions wasted on the still-
empty Stillwater Business Park, the money lost on unsuccessful lawsuits
attempting to thwart the First Amendment (Library case), or the millions
wasted on subsidies for Turtle Bay that failed to keep the museum on track.
Think of what they could’ve done with all the needlessly wasted money if
they directed it towards public safety. The current Council majority cannot
be trusted to efficiently use any more of your money.

Shasta County doesn’t have jail space available now. How does a tax
increase geared towards hiring more cops make the situation better? Simply
put: it doesn’t! More revolving doors, more public pensions, no impact to
the criminal surge!

Don’t let these politicians fool you. They don’t need your money: they need
to learn how to efficiently spend it. Until they do, send them back to the
table!

Vote NO on F

/s/Andrew J Meredith, President, Northeastern CA Building & Construction
Trades

/s/Thomas J Curato, Vice President, Northeastern CA Building &
Construction Trades

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F

Simply put, before the Redding City Council asks the voters for more tax
revenue, we should review the general fund budget. This was not done, no
review of the budget was performed to analyze if there are any modifications
that could be done to redirect funds to public safety.

Council should have done this first!

I’m asking the voters to vote no on measure F, and make the Redding City
Council perform a comprehensive general fund review.

Is/ Patrick Jones, City Council Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F

The entire Anti-Measure F statement is blatantly false. The council member
who wrote this dissenting viewpoint (the only council member of 5 who said
he would campaign against Measure F) has had 714 years on the Council to
address his budget concerns, yet has not done so. This council member has
repeatedly voted against any type of increase or addition of any personnel
within the city. It is only now during a re-election campaign that he brings
up his budget concerns regarding Measure F. If he didn’t like the budget
previously, why did he vote to approve it? This is politics at its worst: using
an anti-tax stance to try to get re-elected when the citizens are crying out for
criminals to be taken off the streets and put in jail. Vote “YES!” on Measure
F!

Is/ Rick Bosetti, Mayor

Is/ Missy McArthur, Redding City Council Member