MEASURE TO BE VOTED ON
NOTICE TO VOTERS OF DATE
AFTER WHICH NO ARGUMENTS
FOR OR AGAINST A CITY MEASURE
MAY BE SUBMITTED TO THE CITY CLERK

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a General Municipal Election is to be held in the City of
Adelanto on Tuesday, November 4, 2014, at which there will be submitted to the voters the
following measure:

City of Adelanto Temporary Fiscal Emergency Measure. To address
Adelanto’s Fiscal Emergency/prevent bankruptcy; prevent elimination of fire
protection services; protect 9-1-1 emergency response, police protection, gang/crime
prevention, senior services, and other essential general services; and to protect
local businesses/jobs and restore fiscal stability; shall the City of Adelanto
adopt a temporary 7.95% Utility Users Tax for 7 years only, with low income
senior discounts, annual audits, citizens’ oversight, and requiring funds be
used locally?

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that pursuant to Article 4, Chapter 3, Division 9 of the Elections
Code of the State of California, the legislative body of the City, or any member or members
thereof authorized by the body, or any individual voter or bonafide association of citizens, or any
combination of voters and associations, may file a written argument, not to exceed 300 words in
length, for or against the City measure. Arguments must be submitted to the City Clerk whose
office is located at 11600 Air Expressway, Adelanto, CA by Thursday, August 14,2014, no later
than 6:00 p.m.

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that the City Council has determined that rebuttal arguments,
not to exceed 250 words, may be filed with the City Clerk no later than 6:00 p.m. on Thursday,
August 25,2014.

NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that all arguments concerning measures shall be accompanied
by Election Code 9600 Form. Any ordinance, impartial analysis, or direct argument filed under
the authority of the election code will be available for public examination in the City Clerk’s
office not less than 10-calendar days from the deadline for the filing of the arguments and
analysis. Any rebuttal argument filed under the authority of the elections code will be available
for public examination in the City Clerk’s office for not less than 10-calendar days from the
deadline for filing rebuttal arguments.

For further information contact the City Clerk’s office at (760) 246-2300 ext. 3090.

The polls will be open between the hours of 7:00 a.m.

Dated: July 30, 2014

Cinu^ ivjl. ututia,	Vyitijv,	iviivjlv^

City of Adelanto Election Official

MEDIR PARA SER VOTADA AVISO A LOS VOTANTES DE FECHA DESPUES DE
QUE NO LOS ARGUMENTOS A FAVOR O EN CONTRA DE UNA MEDIDA DE LA
CIUDAD PUEDE SER PRESENT ADOS A LA SECRET ARIA MUNICIPAL

PRESENTE SE DA AVISO que una Election General Municipal se llevara a cabo en la ciudad
de Adelanto en Maries, 04 de Noviembre 2014, a la que no se presentara a los votantes de la
siguiente medida:

Ciudad de la Medida Adelanto Temporal de Emergencia Fiscal. Para abordar
Emergencia Fiscal de Adelanto / evitar la quiebra; prevenir la elimination de fuego
servicios de protection; proteger a la respuesta de emergencia al 911, la protection de la
politia, pandillas / delincuencia prevention, servicios para ancianos y otros servicios
generates esenciales; y para proteger empresas / puestos de trabajo locales y restaurar la
estabilidad fiscal; ^Debera la Ciudad de Adelanto adoptar un temporal 7.95% Impuestos
Usuarios de Servicios Publicos de solo 7 anos, con bajos ingresos descuentos para
personas mayores, las auditorlas anuales, supervision ciudadana, y los fondos que
requieren ser utilizado a nivel local?

ADEMAS SE NOTIFICA que, de conformidad con el articulo 4, Capltulo 3, Division 9 del
Codigo Electoral del Estado de California, el cueipo legislative de la ciudad, o cualquier
miembro o miembros del mismo autorizado por el cueipo, o cualquier elector individual o
asociacion de buena fe de los ciudadanos, o cualquier combination de los votantes y
asociaciones, pueden presentar un argumento escrito, que no exceda las 300 palabras de longitud,
a favor o en contra de la medida de la ciudad. Los argumentos deben ser presentados a la
Secretaria de la Ciudad cuya oficina esta ubicada en 11600 Air Expressway, Adelanto, CA por
Jueves, 14 de Agosto 2014, no mas tarde de las 6:00 pm

ADEMAS SE NOTIFICA que el Ayuntamiento ha determinado que los argumentos de
refutation, sin exceder las 250 palabras, puede ser presentada ante el Secretario del
Ayuntamiento antes de las 6:00 pm el Jueves, 25 de Agosto 2014.

ADEMAS SE NOTIFICA que todos los argumentos relativos a las medidas deberan ir
acompanadas de la Election Formulario Codigo 9600. Cualquier ordenanza, analisis imparcial, o
argumento directa presentada en virtud de la autoridad del codigo electoral estaran disponibles
para examen publico en la oficina del Secretario de la Ciudad no inferior a 10 dlas-calendario a
partir de la fecha llmite para la presentation de los argumentos y analisis. Cualquier argumento
de refutation presentada bajo la autoridad del codigo de elecciones estara disponible para su
examen publico en la oficina del Secretario de la Ciudad por no menos de 10 dias-calendario a
partir de la fecha limite para la presentation de los argumentos de refutation.

Para mas information pongase en contacto con la oficina de la Secretaria Municipal al (760)
246-2300 ext. 3090.

Los centros electorales estaran abiertos entre lasjhoras de 7:00 am a 8:00 pm
Fecha: 30 de Julio 2014

Cindy M. Herrera, Secretary

Secretario del Ayuntamiento, MMC
Ciudad de Adelanto de Elecciones Oficial

RESOLUTION NO. 14-09

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
ADELANTO, SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA,
CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF A GENERAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 4, 2014, FOR THE SUBMISSION OF A
PROPOSED MEASURE, AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A
UTILITY USERS TAX; AND REQUESTING THE BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO
TO CONSOLIDATE A GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 4, 2014, WITH THE
STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON THE
DATE PURSUANT TO SECTION 10403 OF THE
ELECTIONS CODE

WHEREAS, the Adelanto City Council unanimously declared a Fiscal Emergency
for the City of Adelanto; and

WHEREAS, the City of Adelanto’s ongoing budget deficit is $2.6 million per year;

and

WHEREAS, Adelanto has taken major steps to address the Fiscal Emergency,
cutting $2.9 million from the budget deficit, and reducing the city’s workforce by 23%; and

WHEREAS, Adelanto has already reduced police administration staffing, eliminated
its only gang officer, closed one fire station, and reduced firefighter/paramedics staffing to
only 3 per shift; and

WHEREAS, without additional funds, Adelanto will have no choice but to declare
bankruptcy and further reduce professional 9-1-1 emergency response, paramedics and
fire protection and police services; and

WHEREAS, a declaration of bankruptcy will take control of the City’s future out of
the City’s hands and put it in the hands of bankruptcy judges and the County; and

WHEREAS, in a municipal bankruptcy, the City would lose control and, if taken
over by the County, the County could potentially have the power to impose new fees on
Adelanto residents to cover service costs; and

WHEREAS, a local revenue measure would provide local funds to restore fiscal
stability and preserve local control of Adelanto’s fire, police, and other essential services;
and

Resolution 14-09
Page 2

WHEREAS, closure of one of Adelanto fire station has already led to a 50%
increase in 9-1-1 emergency response times; and

WHEREAS, if the City can no longer sustain the cost of professional fire and police
protection, it will mean even deeper cuts and longer response times for fires, medical
emergencies, and police calls - impacting the community’s health and safety; and

WHEREAS, over the past several months the City of Adelanto has solicited input
from residents about what essential community services they want maintained; and

WHEREAS, the City convened a Citizens’ Finance & Budget Task Force of
concerned residents to study the City’s finances and evaluate ways to address Adelanto’s
Fiscal Emergency; and

WHEREAS, the Citizens’ Finance & Budget Task Force reviewed a number of
potential option to restore fiscal stability and recommended that the Council place a local
Utility User Tax measure on the November ballot for the voters’ consideration; and

WHEREAS, it is anticipated the City will have to declare bankruptcy the first part of
2015 unless additional revenues are secured or drastic measures are taken, such as deep
cuts to fire protection and police services; and

WHEREAS, if approved by voters, the measure would include strict accountability
requirements including an Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee and independent
annual financial audits to ensure funds are spent properly and for Adelanto’s benefit only;
and

WHEREAS, a regularly scheduled Statewide General Municipal Election will be
held in California on November 4, 2014 and under provisions of the laws relating to
general law and charter cities in the State of California, the City Council is authorized to
call a Genera! Municipal Election on the same date; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Adelanto, California desires to submit to
the voters of the City at a General Municipal Election a proposal to approve Ordinance No.
523, Adopting A Utility Users Tax; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Adelanto has unanimously declared a
fiscal emergency.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ADELANTO,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE, AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

Resolution 14-09
Page 3

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of
California relating to general law and charter cities, there is called and ordered to be
held in the City of Adelanto, California, on Tuesday, November 4, 2014, a General
Municipal Election for the purpose of submitting to the voters at said election the following
question:

City of Adelanto Temporary Fiscal Emergency Measure. To yes

address Adelanto’s Fiscal Emergency/prevent bankruptcy; prevent
elimination of fire protection services; protect 9-1-1 emergency
response, police protection, gang/crime prevention, senior NO
services, and other essential general services; and to protect local
businesses/jobs and restore fiscal stability; shall the City of
Adelanto adopt a temporary 7.95% Utility Users Tax for 7 years
only, with low income senior discounts, annual audits, citizens’
oversight, and requiring funds be used locally?

SECTION 2. That the text of the proposed Ordinance No. 523 is attached hereto
as Exhibit “A” and is submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Adelanto for their
approval or rejection at the General Municipal Election to be held on November 4, 2014,
within the boundaries of the City. The City Clerk shall keep one or more copies of the
proposed measure available to the public for inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
The measure shall be designated on the ballot by a letter printed on the left margin of
the square containing the description of the measure as provided in the California
Elections Code.

SECTION 3. That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and
content as required by law.

SECTION 4. That the City Clerk, if necessary to facilitate the requested
consolidation and as may be necessary to undertake other required actions, is authorized,
instructed, and directed to procure and furnish any and all official ballots, notices, printed
matter, and all supplies, equipment, and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to
properly and lawfully conduct the election.

SECTION 5. That the polls for the election shall be open at 7:00 a.m. of the day of
the election and shall remain open continuously from that time until 8:00 p.m. of the same
day when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of the Elections
Code of the State of California.

Resolution 14-09
Page 4

SECTION 6. That in all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall
be held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 7. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and
the City Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to give further or additional notice of
the election in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 8. That pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the Elections
Code, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Bernardino is hereby requested to
consent and agree to the consolidation of a General Municipal Election with the General
Municipal Election on Tuesday, November 4, 2014, for the purpose of submitting to the
voters an Ordinance No. 523, as reflected by this Resolution calling an election for such
purpose. The City of Adelanto acknowledges that the consolidated election will be held
and conducted in the manner prescribed in Section 10418 of the Elections Code and
that the election will be held and conducted in accordance with the provisions of law
regulating the statewide election.

SECTION 9. That the County Election Department is authorized to canvass the
returns of the General Municipal Election. The election shall be held in all respects as if
there were only one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

SECTION 10-That the Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the
County Election Department to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the
consolidated election.

SECTION 11 .That the City of Adelanto recognizes that additional costs will be
incurred by the County by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County
for any costs.

SECTION 12.That the City Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the Registrar of Voters/Election Department
of the County of San Bernardino. Such filing shall be completed promptly upon adoption
of this Resolution, but in no event later than August 8, 2014.

SECTION 13. The City Council determines, based on the entire record, that this
action and the proposed ballot measure does not have the potential to have a physical
effect on the environment and that there is no possibility that this action or the proposed
ballot measure will have a significant effect on the environment. Therefore, pursuant to
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and its implementing Guidelines (Cal.
Pub. Res. Code § 21065; 14 Cal. Code Regs. §§ 15060(c)(2), 15378(a)) this activity is
not subject to CEQA.

Resolution 14-09
Page 5

The City Council specifically finds, based on the record before it that the
proposed ballot measure would not make revisions that involve physical impacts on the
environment (some of these changes include, without limit, modifications to the City’s
public contracting and public works project contracting requirements). The City Clerk is
directed to immediately file a Notice of Exemption with the County of San Bernardino
following approval of this resolution.

SECTION 14. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 23rd day of July, 2014.

ATTEST:

Cari Thomas, Mayor

Resolution 14-09
Page 6

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO) ss
CITY OF ADELANTO	)

I, CINDY M. HERRERA, MMC, City Clerk of the City of Adelanto, California, DO
HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution No. 14-09
adopted by the City Council of the City of Adelanto, California, at a regular meeting thereof
held on the 23rd day of July, 2014.

AYES: Council Members Camargo, Valvo, Mayor Pro Tem Baisden, and Mayor Thomas
NOES: Council Member Wright
ABSENT: None
ABSTAIN: None

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and affix the official seal of the
City of Adelanto on the 23rd day of July, 2014.

SEAL

EXHIBIT A

ORDINANCE NO. 523

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ADELANTO, SAN BERNARDINO
COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, ADOPTING A UTILITY USER TAX

The people of the City of Adelanto do ordain as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 3.70 entitled "Utility User Tax” is hereby added to the Adelanto
Municipal Code to read in its entirety as follows:

3.70.010.  3.70.020.  3.70.030.  3.70.040.  3.70.050.  3.70.060.  3.70.070.  3.70.080.  3.70.090.  3.70.100.  3.70.110.  3.70.120.  3.70.130.  3.70.140.  3.70.150.  3.70.160.  3.70.170.  3.70.180.  3.70.190.  3.70.200.  3.70.210.  3.70.220.  3.70.230.  3.70.240.  3.70.250.  3.70.260.  3.70.270,  3.70.280.  3.70.290.  3.70.300.	Chapter 3.70 Utility User Tax  Authority and Purpose Tax Imposed Definitions Electricity User Tax Gas User Tax  Communication Services User Tax  Sewer Service User Tax  Water User Tax  Cable Television User Tax  Actions to Collect  Collection Procedures  Tax Administrator  Administrative Agreements  Delinquency  Interest and Penalties - Supplier Interest and Penalties - User Records Refunds  Notice to Utilities Appeals  PUC Jurisdiction Constitutional Exemptions Low Income Senior Discount Segregation of Nontaxable Charges Effective Date and Sunset Verification Audit Use of Funds Citizen Oversight Severability  Potential Temporary Reduction Of Tax Rate

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/14

Page 2

Ordinance No. 523

3.70.010. Authority and Purpose.

This chapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of California law for the purpose of
providing general municipal revenues to be used for general municipal purposes. This chapter is
enacted solely to raise revenue for the general governmental purposes of the City of Adelanto
and is not enacted for regulatory purposes. All of the proceeds from the tax imposed by this
chapter shall be placed in the city’s general fund and used for the usual and current expenses of
the city.

3.70.020.	Tax Imposed.

There is imposed a utility user tax in the amount set forth in this chapter to raise revenues
for the general governmental purposes of the city.

3.70.030.	Definitions.

Unless the contrary is stated or clearly appears from the context, the following definitions
govern the construction of the words and phrases used in this chapter. Words and phrases not
defined by this chapter have the meaning set forth elsewhere in this code or the Government
Code.

“Ancillary telecommunication services” means services associated with or incidental to
providing, use or enjoyment of telecommunication services, including, without limitation, the
following:

(1)	“Conference bridging service” means an ancillary service that links two or more
participants of an audio or video conference call and may include providing a telephone number.
Conference bridging service does not include the telecommunication services used to reach the
conference bridge.

(2)	“Detailed telecommunication billing service” means an ancillary service of
separately stating information pertaining to individual calls on a customer’s billing statement.

(3)	“Directory assistance” means an ancillary service of providing telephone number
information or address information.

(4)	“Vertical service” means an ancillary service offered in connection with one or
more telecommunication services, which offers advanced calling features that allow customers to
identify callers and to manage multiple calls and call connections, including conference bridging
services.

(5)	“Voice mail service” means an ancillary service that enables customers to store,
send or receive recorded messages. Voice mail service does not include any vertical services that
the customer may be required to have in order to utilize the voice mail service.

“Billing address” means the mailing address of the service user where the service
supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/I4

-2“

Page 3

Ordinance No. 523

“Communication services” means telecommunications services and ancillary
telecommunication services.

“Electrical corporation,” “gas corporation,” and “telephone corporation” mean the same
as defined in Sections 218,222, and 234, respectively of the Public Utilities Code.

“Mobile telecommunications service” means the same as set forth in the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations promulgated
thereto or any successor statutes or regulations.

“Month” means a calendar month.

“Post-paid telecommunications service” means a telecommunication service obtained by
making a payment on a communication-by-communication basis either through the use of a
credit card or payment mechanism such as a bank card, travel card, credit card, or debit card, or
by charge made to a service number which is not associated with the origination or termination
of the telecommunication service.

“Prepaid telecommunication service” means the right to access telecommunication
services, which is paid for in advance and which enables the origination of communications
using an access number or authorization code, whether manually or electronically dialed, and
that is sold in predetermined units or dollars of which the number declines with use in a known
amount.

“Private telecommunication service” means a telecommunication service that entitles the
customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of channels between
or among termination points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or channels are
connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations, and any other associated
services that are provided in connection with the use of such channel or channels. A
communications channel is a physical or virtual path of communications over which signals are
transmitted between or among customer channel termination points (i.e., the location where the
customer either inputs or receives the communications).

“Service supplier” means a person required to collect and remit a tax imposed under the
provisions of this chapter.

“Service user” means a person required to pay a tax imposed under the provisions of this
chapter.

“Tax administrator” means the City Manager or in his or her absence the Finance
Director.

“Telecommunications services” means:

(1)	The transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, or any other
information or signals to a point, or between or among points, whatever the technology used, and
includes broadband services to the extent federal or state law permits taxation of such broadband
services, now or in the future. The term telecommunication services includes such transmission.

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/14

-3-

Page 4

Ordinance No. 523

conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
code or protocol of the content for puiposes of transmission, conveyance, or routing without
regal'd to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet protocol services or are
classified by the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes
video or data services that are functionally integrated with telecommunication services.

(2)	Telecommunication services include, without limitation, the following services,
regardless of the manner or basis on which such services are calculated or billed: ancillary
telecommunication services; broadband services (to the extent federal and/or state law permits
taxation of such service); mobile telecommunication service; landline telecommunication
service; prepaid telecommunication service (to the extent it is practicable for the service supplier
to collect the correct tax imposed under this chapter from the service user); post-paid
telecommunication service; private telecommunication service; paging service; 800 service or
any other toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission; and 900
service or any other similar numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission for
services whereby subscribers call in to pre-recorded or live service.

(3)	Telecommunication services also include, without limitation, charges for
connection, reconnection, termination, movement, or change of telecommunication services; late
payment fees; detailed billing; central office and custom calling features (including, without
limitation, call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification and three-way calling); voice mail
and other messaging services; directory assistance; access and line charges; universal service
charges; regulatory, administrative and other cost recovery charges; local number portability
charges; and text.

(4)	Telecommunication services do not include digital downloads that are not
ancillary telecommunication services, such as video programming, music, ringtones, games, and
other similar digital products.

3.70.040. Electricity User Tax.

(a)	There is imposed a tax upon every person in the city, other than an electrical
corporation, using electrical energy in the city. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of 7.95% of the charges made for such energy for each service user, and shall be paid by the
person paying for such energy.

(b)	As used in this section, the words “using electrical energy” shall not be construed
to mean the use of such energy from a storage battery; provided, however, that the term shall
include the receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in the charging of storage
batteries.

(c)	As used in this section, the words “using electrical energy” shall not be construed
to mean the receiving of such energy by an electrical corporation or a governmental agency at a
point within the city for resale.

-4-

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/I4

Page 5

Ordinance No. 523

(d)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by the
person selling such electrical energy. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted
to the tax administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

3.70.050. Gas User Tax.

(a)	There is imposed a tax upon every person in the city, other than a gas corporation
or electrical corporation, using in the city gas which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of 7.95% of the charges made for such gas for each
service user, and shall be paid by the person paying for such gas, “Charges,” as used in this
section, shall mean: (1) gas which is delivered through mains or pipes; and (2) minimum charges
for such services, including customer charges, service charges, and annual and monthly charges.

(b)	The following shall be excluded from the base on which the tax is imposed:

(1)	Charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through mains or

pipes;

(2)	Charges made for gas sold for use in the generation of electrical energy or
for the production or distribution of water by a public utility or governmental agency;

(3)	Charges made by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in the
conduct of the business of gas public utilities;

(4)	Charges made for gas used in the propulsion of a motor vehicle, as that
phrase is defined in the Vehicle Code of the state, utilizing natural gas.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by the
person selling the gas. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the tax
administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

3.70.060. Communication Services User Tax.

(a)	There is a tax imposed upon every person in the city using communication
services. The tax imposed by this section is at the rate of 7.95% of the charges made for each
service user, and shall be paid by the person paying for such services. There is a rebuttable
presumption that communication services billed to a billing or service address in the city are
used, in whole or in part, within the city’s boundaries and such services are taxable under this
chapter. If the billing address of the service user is different from the service address, the service
address of the service user is used for purposes of imposing the tax.

(b)	Mobile telecommunications service is sourced in accordance with the sourcing
rules set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 116),
regulations promulgated thereto, and any successor statute or regulation. The tax administrator
may issue and disseminate to communication service providers subject to the tax collection
requirements of this chapter sourcing rules for the taxation of other communication services
including, without limitation, post-paid communication services, prepaid communication
services, and private communication services, provided that such rules are based upon industry

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/14

“5“

Page 6

Ordinance No. 523

custom and common practice that further administrative efficiency and minimize multi-
jurisdictional taxation.

(c)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of communication services subject
to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the tax administrator that the service
user previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such communication services, is
allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed
in such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of credit cannot exceed the tax owed
to the city under this section,

(d)	Except as otherwise provided by applicable federal or state law, if any nontaxable
charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable service charges on the
customer bill or invoice of a sendee supplier, the combined charge is subject to tax unless the
service supplier identifies, by reasonable and verifiable standards, the portions of the combined
charge that are nontaxable and taxable through the service supplier’s books and records kept in
the regular course of business and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and not created and maintained for tax purposes. The service supplier has the burden of proving
the proper apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges.

(e)	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax
under this section, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” are construed broadly in favor of
the imposition, collection and remittance of the tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and
federal law and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by statutory
enactment. Any communication service used by a person with a seivice address in the city,
which service is capable of terminating a call to another person on the general telephone
network, is subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus/minimum contacts” exist
for puiposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax, under this
chapter. A seivice supplier is deemed to have sufficient activity in the city for tax collection and
remittance purposes if its activities include, without limitation, any of the following: a place of
business of any nature; solicitation of business in the city by employees, independent contractors,
resellers, agents, or other representatives; solicitation of business in the city on a continuous,
regular, seasonal or systematic basis by means of advertising that is broadcast or relayed from a
transmitter within the city or distributed from a location within the city; or advertises in
newspapers or other periodicals printed and published within the city or through materials
distributed in the city by means other than the United States mail. Upon request, the city must
make available an accurate description of its jurisdictional boundaries based on street addresses
or ZIP Plus Four, in electronic format. If a service supplier relies upon such information
provided by the city, the city is not responsible for any errors in taxation that may result.

(f)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by the
person selling the communication services. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be
remitted to the tax administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

(g)	The communication services user tax is to be construed to reach to the full breadth
of the city’s constitutional power to tax and without respect to the technology or means by which
communication services are provided.

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/14

-6-

Page 7

Ordinance No. 523

3.70.070.	Sewer Service User Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax on every person using in the city the services of a
sewer service for the disposal of sewage into a sewer system. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of 7.95% of the charges made for such services and shall be paid by the
person paying for such services. “Charges,” as used in this section, shall include charges for
service, including customer charges, service charges and annual and monthly charges and any
other charge authorized by this code, a franchise or collection services agreement granted
pur suant to that Code, or the law of the State of California.

(b)	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the
person providing the services. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the
tax administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

3.70.080.	Water User Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax on every person using water which is delivered
through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of 7.95% of the
charges made for such water and shall be paid by the person paying for such water. “Charges,”
as used in this section, shall include charges made for metered water and charges for service,
including customer charges, service charges and annual and monthly charges and any other
charge authorized by law.

(b)	Charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered through mains or
pipes shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed by this section is computed.

(c)	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected horn the service user by the
person supplying the water. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the
tax administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

3.70.090.	Cable Television User Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using cable television
seivice in the city. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of 7.95% of the charges
made for such service and shall be paid by the person paying for such service.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” includes, but is not limited to, charges
for installation and programming, whether the programming is a cable transmission of broadcast
channels, transmission of cable-only programming, “pay-per-view” programming or any other
programming.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by the
person providing the cable television service. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be
remitted to the tax administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

539/026150-0001

7259952,4	a07/24/14

-7-

Page 8

Ordinance No. 523

3.70.100.	Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any such tax collected from a service user
which has not been remitted to the tax administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the city by
the person required to collect and remit. Any person owing money to the city under the
provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city for the
recovery of such amount.

3.70.110.	Collection Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this chapter shall be performed as
follows:

(a)	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along
with the charges made in accordance with regular billing practice of the service supplier. Except
in those cases where a service user pays the full amount of said charges but does not pay any
portion of a tax imposed by this chapter, or where a service user has notified a service supplier
that he is refusing to pay a tax imposed by this chapter which said service supplier is required to
collect, if the amount paid by a service user is less than the full amount of the charge and tax
which has accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the tax
shall be deemed to have been paid.

(b)	The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence with the beginning of
the first regular full billing period applicable to that person which starts on or after the operative
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. Where a person receives more than one billing, one
or more being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each
billing period.

3.70.120. Tax Administrator.

The tax administrator shall have the power and duty, and is directed to enforce each and
all of the provisions of this chapter. The tax administrator shall have the power to adopt rules and
regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter for the purpose of carrying out
and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed.

3.70.130.	Administrative Agreements.

The tax administrator may make administrative agreements to vary the strict
requirements of this chapter so that collection and remittance of any tax imposed herein may be
made in conformance with the billing procedures of a particular service supplier as long as the
overall result of said agreements results in collection of the tax in conformance with the general
purpose and scope of this chapter.

3.70.140.	Delinquency.

Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the tax administrator on or
before the due date provided in this chapter are delinquent.

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/14

-8-

Page 9

Ordinance No. 523

3.70.150. Interest and Penalties—Supplier.

Interest and penalties for delinquency in remittance of any tax collected by a service
supplier and not remitted shall be assessed as follows:

(a)	Any service supplier who fails to remit any tax collected under this chapter within
ten days after receipt of written notice from the city of such failure shall pay a penalty of ten
percent of the amount of the tax.

(b)	If the tax administrator determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due
under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax shall
be added thereto in addition to the penalty stated in subsection (a) of this section.

(c)	In addition to the penalties imposed in this section, any service supplier who fails
to remit any tax collected under this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one percent per
month on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance
first became delinquent until paid.

(d)	Every penalty imposed upon a service supplier, and such interest as accrued,
under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax required to be remitted.

3.70.160.	Interest and Penalties—User.

(a)	Any service user who fails to pay any tax imposed by this chapter within ninety
days of the date of notification of the amount of the tax due from the service supplier shall pay a
penalty of ten percent of the amount of the tax, or one dollar, whichever is greater, and shall pay
interest at the rate of one percent per month or fraction thereof on the amount of tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the payment is ninety days delinquent.

(b)	Whenever the tax administrator determines that a service user has deliberately
withheld the amount of any tax imposed by the provisions of this chapter from the amounts
remitted to a service supplier required to collect the tax, or that a service user has failed to pay
the amount of the tax to such service supplier for a period of three or more billing periods, or
whenever the tax administrator deems it in the best interest of the city, he or she shall relieve
such service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due under this chapter from certain named
service users for specified billing periods. The tax administrator shall notify the service user that
he or she has assumed responsibility to collect the taxes and penalty due for the stated period and
demand payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the service user by handing it to
him or her personally or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid
thereon, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made by the service
supplier required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have changed his or her address, to
his or her last known address. If a service user fails to remit the tax and penalty to the tax
administrator within fifteen days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her,
which shall be the date of mailing if service is not accomplished in person, an additional penalty
of twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax and penalty set forth in the notice shall be
imposed, but not less than ten dollars.

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/14

-9-

Page 10

Ordinance No. 523

(c)	Every penalty imposed upon a service user, and such interest as accrues, under the
provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall become a part of the tax required to be
paid.

3.70.170.	Records.

It shall be the duty of every service supplier required to collect and remit to the city the
tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve for a period of three years all records as may be
necessary to determine the amount of such tax such service supplier may have been required to
collect and remit to the city, which records the tax administrator shall have the right to inspect at
all reasonable times.

3.70.180.	Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest, or penalty has been overpaid or paid
more than once or has been erroneously collected or received by the city under this chapter, it
may be refunded as provided in this section, provided a claim in writing therefor, stating under
penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the tax
administrator within one year of the date of payment. The claim must be on forms furnished by
the tax administrator. No refund is paid unless the claimant establishes his or her right thereto by
written records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein permits the filing of a claim on
behalf of a class or group of taxpayers. Where the amount of any individual refund claim is in
excess of twenty-five thousand dollars, city council approval is required in addition to approval
by the tax administrator.

(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, a service supplier
may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected and remitted the amount overpaid,
paid more than once, or erroneously collected or received when it is established that the service
user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided, however, that neither a
refund nor a credit is allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either been refunded
to the service user or credited to charges subsequently payable by the service user or the person
required to collect and remit. A service supplier that has collected any amount of tax in excess of
the amount of tax imposed by this chapter and actually due from a service user may refund such
amount to the service user and claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax
which is due upon any other monthly returns, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated no
later than one year from the date of overpayment.

(c)	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service supplier,
pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent
jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of charges for past utility services, the taxes paid
pursuant to this chapter on the amount of such refunded charges must also be refunded to service
users by the service supplier, and the service supplier is entitled to claim a credit for such
refunded tax against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly return. If this chapter
is repealed, amounts of any refundable taxes will be borne by the city.

(d)	The tax administrator, or the city council (where the claim is in excess of twenty-
five thousand dollars), must act upon the refund claim within forty-five days of the initial receipt

-10-

Page 11

Ordinance No. 523

of the refund claim. Said decision is the city’s final decision. If the tax administrator or city
council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the forty-five-day period, the claim is
deemed to have been rejected. The tax administrator will give notice of its decision in a form
which substantially complies with that set forth in Government Code Section 913.

(e)	The filing of a written claim is a prerequisite to any lawsuit. Any action brought
against the city pursuant to this chapter is subject to the provisions of Government Code Sections
945.6 and 946.

3.70.190. Notice to Utilities.

The tax administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a right to
exemption or discounts from the tax imposed by this chapter. The tax administrator shall
provide the service supplier with a list of the names of persons whom the tax administrator
determines are exempt or allowed discounts from the tax imposed hereby together with the
address and account number to which service is supplied to any such exempt person or person
entitled to a discount. This list will be the official determination by which the service supplier
will provide exemption or discounts from the utility user tax. The exemptions or discounts shall
be implemented by the service supplier within sixty days after the mailing of such list by the tax
administrator. The tax administrator shall also notify the service supplier of the termination of
any person’s right to exemption or discount hereunder, or the change of any address to which
service is supplied to any exempt person or person allowed a discount.

3.70.200. Appeals.

(a)	Any person aggrieved by the decision of the tax administrator pursuant to this
chapter may appeal to the city council by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within
fifteen days of the serving or mailing of the decision.

(b)	The city council shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal. The city clerk
shall give notice thereof in writing to such person by depositing it in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to such person at his or her last known place of address.

(c)	The city council shall have authority to determine all questions raised on such
appeal at the time of the hearing. No determination so made by the city council shall conflict
with any substantive provisions of this chapter.

(d)	No interest or penalty provided for in this chapter shall be imposed prior to the
completion of the hearing on the appeal and the making of a determination on the appeal by the
city council.

3.70.210. PUC Jurisdiction.

Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to conflict with applicable rules,
regulations, and tariffs of any service supplier subject to the jurisdiction of the California Public
Utilities Commission. In the event of any conflict, the provisions of said rules, regulations and
tariffs shall control.

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/14

-11-

Page 12

Ordinance No. 523

3.70.220.	Constitutional Exemptions.

Nothing in this section shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person or
transaction if that imposition would violate the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution
of the State of California, or any California statute.

3.70.230.	Low Income Senior Discount.

(a)	The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be 5.95% for low income seniors. The
low income senior discount shall only apply to any service user who: 1) is the head of a
household and is sixty-five years old or older; and 2) have total household income that satisfies
the most recent “very low income” category for households in the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (“HUD”) guidelines for San Bernardino County for the year in which
the service user seeks the discount.

(b)	The discount granted by this section shall not be granted unless the service user
applies for, and the tax administrator grants, a discount in accordance with the provisions of
subsection (c) of this section. The discount must be applied for by the service user annually.
The discount expires on December 31 of each year automatically. Renewal applications must be
submitted 30 days prior to expiration or the customer will be automatically charged the normal
tax rate until the discount is approved for that year*.

(c)	Any person claiming a discount on taxes imposed by this chapter shall file a
verified statement of discount on a form prescribed by, and accompanied by such evidence as
may be reasonably required by, the tax administrator,

(1)	The tax administrator shall, within sixty days of receipt of an application
for a discount, determine whether the applicant is entitled to a discount, and if so, notify the
service supplier.

(2)	A discount granted pursuant to this section shall become effective at the
beginning of the first regular billing period which commences after the tax administrator has
notified the service supplier that a discount has been granted.

(3)	The tax administrator shall notify the service supplier of the termination of
any person’s right to a discount hereunder, or the change of any address to which service is
supplied to any person receiving a discount.

3.70.240. Segregation of Nontaxable Charges.

As used in this chapter, the term “charges” means and includes the value of all
consideration provided by a service user in exchange for utility services. If a nontaxable service
and a taxable service are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed
taxable unless the service supplier identifies, by verifiable data, based upon its books and records
that are kept in the regular course of business, in a manner that is consistent with generally
accepted accounting principles, the nontaxable component of the charge. A service supplier has
the burden to prove the proper apportionment of taxable and nontaxable charges.

-12-

Page 13

Ordinance No. 523

3.70.250. Effective Date and Sunset.

The taxes imposed by this ordinance shall become effective only if approved by a
majority of the voters voting thereon and shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is
declared by the City Council. This ordinance shall be of no further force and effect seven years
after the effective date.

3.70.260.	Verification Audit.

The City shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this Chapter have been properly
applied, discounted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter, and properly
expended according to applicable law, and issue a public report of the findings of such
verification. The annual verification shall be performed by a qualified auditor and shall employ
reasonable, cost-effective steps to assure compliance, including the use of sampling audits. The
audit of a service supplied shall not be required where the cost of the audit is expected to exceed
the additional tax revenue to be derived from the performance of the audit.

3.70.270.	Use of Funds.

All funds collected from the utility user tax shall be used locally to benefit the City of
Adelanto.

3.70.280.	Citizen Oversight.

The City shall form a Citizen Oversight Committee, with the number of members and a
meeting schedule to be determined by the City Council, that will periodically review the matters
pertaining to the utility user tax and the City’s use of funds derived from the tax.

3.70.290.	Severability.

If any section, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter is for any reason held to
be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections,
sentences, clauses, phrases or portions of this chapter shall nonetheless remain in full force and
effect. The people of the City of Adelanto hereby declare that they would have adopted each
section, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions of this chapter be declared invalid or
unenforceable.

3.70.300.	Potential Temporary Reduction Of Tax Rate.

Each year in conjunction with the City’s review of the verification audit, the Citizen
Oversight Committee and the City Council may review the rate of the utility user tax. Following
this review, the Citizen Oversight Committee may recommend a temporary reduction of the tax
rate and the City Council, in its sole discretion, may reduce the tax rate for a temporary time
period based upon the financial condition of the City. The people of the City affirm that the
restoration of the rate of the tax to a rate, that is no higher than that set by this Chapter, following
any temporary reduction by the City Council does not constitute an increase of the rate of the tax.

Page 14

Ordinance No. 523

Section 2. This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of the
voters voting thereon and shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City
Council. The Mayor and City Clerk are hereby authorized to execute this Ordinance to give
evidence of its adoption by the voters.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED this 23rd day of July	2014.

Mayor, Cari Thomas

ATTEST:
CityClerk /

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

j&dtL Qx

City Attorney

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/14

-14“

Page 15

Ordinance No. 523

I, Cindy Herrera, City Clerk of the City of Adelanto, do hereby certify that the foregoing
Ordinance was introduced at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Adelanto held
on the 23rd day of July__________,	2014, by the following vote:

AYES: Council Members Camargo, Valvo, Mayor Pro Tem Baisden, and Mayor Thomas

NOES: Council Member Wright

ABSTAIN: None

ABSENT: None

ATTEST:

/7 '

Cindy M. Herndra, City Clerk, City of Adelanto

539/026150-0001

7259952.4	a07/24/14

-15-

RESOLUTION NO. 14-10

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
ADELANTO, COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO,
CALIFORNIA, SETTING PRIORITIES FOR FILING
WRITTEN ARGUMENTS REGARDING A PROPOSED
MEASURE, ORDINANCE NO. 523 ADOPTING A UTILITY
USER TAX; AND DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO
PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR A GENERAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 4,
2014

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election is to be held in the City of Adeianto,
California on November 4, 2014, at which there will be submitted to the voters the
following question:

City of Adeianto Temporary Fiscal Emergency Measure. To YES

address Adelanto's Fiscal Emergency/prevent bankruptcy; prevent
elimination of fire protection services; protect 9-1-1 emergency
response, police protection, gang/crime prevention, senior NO
services, and other essential general services; and to protect local
businesses/jobs and restore fiscal stability; shall the City of
Adeianto adopt a temporary 7.95% Utility Users Tax for 7 years
only, with low income senior discounts, annual audits, citizens’
oversight, and requiring funds be used locally?

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ADELANTO,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1 That the City Council authorizes all members of the City Council to
file (a) written argument(s) In Favor or Against the Measure, accompanied by the printed
name(s) and signature(s) of the author(s) submitting it; or if submitted on behalf of an
organization, the name of the organization, and the printed name and signature of at least
one of its principal officers who is the author of the argument; or if submitted by an
individual voter or any combination of voters who is/are eligible to vote on the measure,
the printed name and signature of each individual, in accordance with Article 4, Chapter 3,
Division 9 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

SECTION 2. That per the Elections Code of the State of California, no argument
shall exceed three hundred (300) words in length and shall not have more than five
signatures. Arguments may be changed or withdrawn by their proponents until and
including the date fixed by the City Clerk after which no arguments for or against the City
measure may be submitted to the City Clerk.

Resolution 14-10
Page 2

SECTION 3. The City Attorney is directed to prepare an impartial analysis of the
proposed ballot measure pursuant to Elections Code section 9280. The impartial analysis
of the measure shall show the effect of the measure on the existing law and the operation
of the measure. The impartial analysis shall not exceed five hundred (500) words in
length, and shall be filed by the date set by the City Clerk for the filing of direct arguments.

SECTION 4. That the City Clerk is directed to fix and determine a reasonable date
prior to the election after which no arguments for or against the City measure may be
submitted for printing and distribution to the voters. If more than one argument for or
against the City measure is submitted to the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall select one of
the arguments for printing and distribution to the voters, according to the following
preference and priority, in the order named: the City Council, or member or members of
the City Council; bona fide associates of citizens; individual voters who are eligible to vote
on the City measure.

SECTION 5. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED. APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 23rd day of July, 2014.

Carl Thomas, Mayor

ATTEST:

Resolution 14-10
Page 3

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO) ss
CITYOFADELANTO )

I, CINDY M. HERRERA, MMC, City Clerk of the City of Adelanto, California, DO
HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution No. 14-10
adopted by the City Council of the City of Adelanto, California, at a regular meeting thereof
held on the 23rd day of July, 2014.

AYES: Council Members Camargo, Valvo, Wright, Mayor Pro Tem Baisden, and
Mayor Thomas

NOES: None

ABSENT: None

ABSTAIN: None

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and affix the official seal of the
City of Adelanto on the 23rd day of July, 2014.

Cindy M/Herrera, City Clerk, MMC

RESOLUTION NO. 14-11

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
ADELANTO,	COUNTY OF SAN	BERNARDINO,

CALIFORNIA	PROVIDING FOR THE FILING OF

REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS FOR CITY MEASURE
SUBMITTED AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
CALLED FOR NOVEMBER 4,2014

WHEREAS, Section 9285 of the Elections Code of the State of California
authorizes the City Council, by majority vote, to adopt provisions to provide for the filing of
rebuttal arguments for city measures submitted at municipal elections;	.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ADELANTO,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to Section 9285 of the Elections Code of the State of
California, when the City Clerk has selected the arguments for and against any measure,
including the proposed measure, Ordinance No. 523 Adopting A Utility Users Tax, which
shall be printed and distributed to the voters, the City Clerk shall send copies of the
argument in favor of the measure to the authors of the argument against, and copes of the
argument against to the authors of the argument in favor immediately upon receiving the
arguments. The author or a majority of the authors of an argument may prepare and
submit rebuttal arguments not exceeding 250 words or may authorize in writing any other
person or persons to prepare, submit or sign the rebuttal argument. The rebuttal
arguments shall be filed with the City Clerk, signed with the printed name(s) and
signatures(s) of the person(s) submitting it, or if submitted on behalf of an organization, the
name of the organization, and the printed name and signature of at least one of its
principal officers, no later than 5:00 p.m. ten (10) days after the final date for filing direct
arguments. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as the direct
arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the direct argument which it
seeks to rebut. A rebuttal argument may not be signed by more than five individuals,

SECTION 2. That all previous resolutions providing for the filing of rebuttal
arguments for city measures are repealed.

SECTION 3. That the provisions of Section 1 shall apply only to the General
Municipal Election to be held on November 4,2014, and shall then be repealed.

SECTION 4. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book or original resolutions.

539/026150-0001

7259966.2807/1-1/14

RESOLUTION NO. 14-11
Page 2

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 23rd day of July, 2014.

Cari Thomas, Mayor

ATTEST:

Cindy K/k

RESOLUTION NO, 14-11
Page 3

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO ) ss
CITYOFADELANTO )

1, CINDY M. HERRERA, MMC, City Clerk of the City of Adelanto, California, DO
HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution No. 14-11
adopted by the City Council of the City of Adelanto, California, at a regular meeting thereof
held on the 23rd day of July, 2014.

AYES: Council Members Camargo, Valvo, Wright, Mayor Pro Tem Baisden, and

Mayor Thomas

NOES: None

ABSENT: None

ABSTAIN: None

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and affix the official seal of the
City of Adelanto on the 23rd day of July, 2014.

MEASURE O

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

City of Adelanto
Ballot Measure Establishing A Temporary Utility User Tax

This measure establishes a temporary utility user tax in the City of Adelanto. A utility user tax is
a legally authorized tax charged on the use of utility services to raise funds for municipal
services. A large number of cities in California currently impose a utility user tax.

The funds raised by the utility user tax must be used locally to benefit the City of Adelanto. The
funds may be used for any general municipal puiposes, including but not limited to police
services, fire protection services, gang and crime prevention, and other services provided by the
City.

The amount of the utility user tax is 7.95% of the charges for the utility service. The utility user
tax would apply to electricity, natural gas (not gasoline for one’s motor vehicles),
communication services (including cell phones and land line telephones), sewer, water, and cable
television charges.

There are a number of specific limitations on the utility user tax and safeguards to ensure that
any funds raised are properly used by the City:

•	The utility user tax will only stay in effect for seven (7) years after it is adopted. After
seven years, the tax is eliminated. The tax can only be extended by another vote of the
people.

•	There is a low income senior discount for any service user that is 65 years old or older,
the head of household, and meets the definition of “very low income” pursuant to federal
standards. The tax rate for those that qualify for the discount is 5.95%.

•	The City shall annually verify that the funds raised by the utility user tax have been
properly applied, discounted, collected and spent. The annual verification shall be
performed by a qualified auditor and shall employ reasonable, cost-effective steps to
assure compliance.

•	A Citizen Oversight Committee will be created that will review matters pertaining to the
utility user tax and the City’s use of funds derived from the tax.

•	Each year the Citizen Oversight Committee and City Council may review the utility user
tax rate. The City Council may reduce (but not increase) the tax rate based upon the
financial condition of the City.

A “Yes” vote is in favor of adopting this measure. A “No” vote is against adopting this measure.
If a majority of voters vote “Yes,” then this measure will take effect ten days after the vote is
declared by the City Council. This measure was placed on the ballot by the City Council.

Dated: August 7, 2014





Todd Litfin, City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure_______________. If you desire a copy of the

ordinance or measure, please call the elections official's office at (760) 246-2300 ext. 3090 and a
copy will be mailed, emailed, or otherwise provided at no cost to you.

This Argument in Favor of Measure O was submitted pursuant to Section 9282 of the California Elections
Code. It is the opinion of the author(s), and has been printed exactly as submitted.

The City of Adelanto has the potential to be a great City with its ample space and preferred
logistical location to State highways 18 and 395. The community is filled with passionate families who
care about their schools, parks, and community's safety. Citizens are free to walk the streets of the City
nightly as they walk their dogs and participate in youth sports at City parks. With all of that in mind the
City of Adelanto is a community and to remain as such we, as citizens, need to have the financial support
of this tax that is levied by us and controlled by us, with no interference or threat of the State or County
taking the money. With the approval, we as Citizens can dictate to the City Council our wishes for how it
is to be used.

Adelanto has been ignored by commercial retailers historically and we have been forced to drive
to neighboring cities for services, only to have the sales tax dollars benefit those cities and not Adelanto.
A positive response to the passing of this tax sends a message to the commercial retailers that we care
enough about our community to do our part to maintain and take care of it.

Additional revenue can help City management address our concerns for more amenities to keep
us in Adelanto and not be forced to seek entertainment and amenities elsewhere. During the downturn
in the economy, many of us have stayed with hopes of eventually continuing on the path of being the
great community that attracted all of us here originally. Namely, affordable housing, a small town
sense of community and pride, and the potential to be a part of a newly emerging, vibrant and
innovative City who prides itself on sensible and responsible growth.

s/ George Harris, Concerned Citizen

s/ Charley B. Glasper, Former Mayor

s/ Chris Waggener, Adelanto Airport President

STATEMENT BY PROPONENTS/AUTHORS OF ARGUMENTS

Section 9600 of the Election Code requires that all arguments concerning measures shall be accompanied by the following form
statement, to be signed by each proponent and by each author, if different, of the argument

The undersigned proponents) or author(s) of the_________________primary..............................................  argument

(primary or rebuttal)

In favor___________________ballot proposition (measure) 0 at the General Municipal Elec tion________________________________

(in favor of or against)	(letter)	(title	of	election)

election for the Cltv of Adelanto_____________________to	be	held	on	November	A,	201A_________________________________

(jurisdiction)	(date	of	election)

hereby state that this argument is true and correct to the best of___________their	___________________________________

(his/her/their)

knowledge and belief.

ProponentVAuthor’s:

$ze>rGXL hkrMS

^	^	(Print	Name)

^ (Print Name)

■ Cixtoify- L.



(Print Name)





(Print Name)

(Signature)

Date:



ate)

gen

(Title)



(Signature)

CAMUS

(Date)

(Tide) '

tf-/V__________________

(Date)

AmiPro	p&sxaita/r

(Title)

(Date)

(Print Name)

(Tide)

(Signature)

(Date)

(Print Name)

(Title)