ESJ

Additional Transfer Tax on Residential
Property Sold Within 5 Years of Purchase

Shall the City impose an additional tax of between 14% and 24% on the
total sale price of certain multi-unit residential properties that are sold
within five years of purchase or transfer, subject to certain exceptions?

Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee

The Way It Is Now: The City collects a transfer tax on
sales of most real property in San Francisco.The tax
rate depends on the sale price of the property. The
lowest tax rate is 0.5%, for property sold for $250,000
or less. The highest tax rate is 2.5%, for property sold
for $10,000,000 or more.The tax rate is not affected by
how long a property is owned.

The Proposal: Proposition G would impose an addi-
tional tax on the total sale price of certain multi-unit
residential properties that are sold within five years of
purchase or transfer.The following table shows the tax
rates that would apply:

Length of Time Seller Has Owned the Property	Tax Rate
Less than one year	24%
One to two years	22%
Two to three years	20%
Three to four years	18%
Four to five years	14%

This additional tax would apply to sales occurring on
or after January 1, 2015.

This additional tax would not apply in the following
circumstances:

•	The property is a single-family house or condo-
minium and does not include an in-law unit;

•	An owner of the property, including a tenancy-in-
common unit, has used it as a primary residence
for at least one year immediately before the sale;

•	The property is sold for an amount equal to or
less than what the seller paid for the property;

•	The property is sold within one year of a property
owner's death;

•	The property is legally restricted to low- and mid-
dle-income households;

•	The property is newly built housing;

•	The property meets the following criteria: it con-
tains no more than two dwelling units; the seller
applied on or before July 1, 2014, for a building
permit for a project with a total construction cost
of $500,000 or more; and the last permit was
issued no more than a year before the sale of the
property; or

•	The sale of the property is exempt from the exist-
ing transfer tax.

This measure would also authorize the Board of
Supervisors to create additional exemptions from both
the existing transfer tax and this proposed additional
tax for properties that are subject to affordability-
based restrictions.

A "YES" Vote Means: If you vote "yes," you want the
City to impose an additional tax of between 14% and
24% on the total sale price of certain multi-unit resi-
dential properties that are sold within five years of
purchase or transfer, subject to certain exceptions.

A "NO" Vote Means: If you vote "no," you do not want
the City to impose this additional tax.

• The property contains more than 30 separate resi-
dential units;

This measure requires 50%+1 affirmative votes to pass.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of this measure. Arguments for and against this measure immediately follow.
The full text begins on page 186. Some of the words used in the ballot digest are explained starting on page 60.

Controller's Statement on "G"

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the follow-
ing statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition G:

Should the proposed initiative ordinance be approved
by the voters, in my opinion, it could have an impact
on government revenues. The proposed ordinance
may affect property sales and therefore the transfer
tax revenues received by the City.

The ultimate effects of the ordinance would depend on
property owners' behavior and on market conditions.
In the event that the high transfer tax rates imposed
by the ordinance cause owners to hold property for
longer than they would have otherwise, and/or
reduces the number of property transactions, the ordi-
nance would effectively decrease the transfer tax reve-
nue received by the City.

The amendment provides for a surtax added to the
existing property transfer tax imposed on certain resi-
dential properties if they are purchased and sold
within a five year period. Current transfer tax rates
range from 0.5% of the sale price for properties less
than $250,000 to 2.5% for properties greater than $10
million.The surtax would range from 24% to 14%
depending on the length of time a property was held
between purchase and sale. Exemptions are provided
for various types of properties and ownership circum-
stances.

In a typical year over the last eight year period,
approximately 60 properties would have been subject
to the tax had it been in effect, and been subject to an
average surtax amount of approximately $413,000.

How "G" Got on the Ballot

On June 17, 2014, the Department of Elections received
a proposed ordinance signed by the following
Supervisors: Avalos, Campos, Kim, Mar.

The City Elections Code allows four or more
Supervisors to place an ordinance on the ballot in this
manner.

This measure requires 50%+1 affirmative votes to pass.

r

The above statement is an impartial analysis of this measure. Arguments for and against this measure immediately follow.
The full text begins on page 186. Some of the words used in the ballot digest are explained starting on page 60.

Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition G

San Francisco is becoming the most unaffordable city
in the country. As we experience our worst housing
crisis in history, too many of our friends and neigh-
bors are being forced to leave. Driving this crisis is the
"flipping" of properties: quickly buying and reselling
apartment buildings for windfall profits. As a result we
are losing the people who have made our City work:
Teachers, Nurses, First - Responders, Service Workers
and many others.The character of San Francisco is in
jeopardy.

The speculators who have descended on our neigh-
borhoods have no interest in making long- term
investments in our city. After flipping one building,
they move on to another and another.Their mantra:
'Buy, push out residents and businesses, and sell/

Today the city has no effective policy to control specu-
lators. There is no law to stop them from buying and
flipping buildings. Our limited supply of housing is
being auctioned off without care for the families or
communities impacted.To sustain our economy and
the character of our city, we must rein in this specula-
tive wave.

Proposition G is a critical step towards addressing this
crisis.

Proposition G will require speculators to operate by
reasonable rules and encourage them to invest in the
City for the long term. Proposition G will:

•	require investors in apartment buildings to buy and
hold their buildings for a minimum of five years or
pay a graduated surtax on the re-sale price;

•	encourage new construction of housing;

•	encourage preservation of housing affordable to a
majority of San Franciscans;

•	impose no new taxes on owners of single family
homes or condominiums.

We need the protection that Proposition G provides to
save homes and protect our neighborhoods.

Mike Casey, Hotel - Restaurant Employees Union Local 2
Claudia Tirado, Elementary School Teacher*

Ted Gullicksen, SF Tenants Union

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Rebuttal to Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition G

Speculators make great political scapegoats. Hating
on people who make quick money by smart investing
is perennially popular. But real estate speculation
doesn't just happen, it happens due to specific circum-
stances. People "flip" houses mainly because prices
keep going up.

So why do prices keep rising? Some blame San
Francisco's housing crisis on the recent tech boom.

But that's wrong. Prices have been trending upward
for decades, the natural result of constricting supply
via anti-development policies while demand
increased.

Of course there's also inflation, the natural result of
the Fed creating money out of thin air.

To make a long story short, prices rise mainly because
government policies are designed that way.

Maybe that's intentional, maybe not. We'll refrain from
speculating. Laws often have unintended conse-
quences, and no knows exactly how markets will
respond. However one can examine the incentives
being created.

Proposition G would impose a tax of up to 24% on
properties held less than five years. Meanwhile, no
one planning to flip a property wants to rent it out.

because, as proponents observe, an empty building
typically sells for 20% more than an occupied one.

So what Prop. G would effectively do is incentivize
speculators to keep their buildings empty for at least
five years instead of just a year or two - further
reducing the available housing supply and increasing
prices.

In other words, this measure intended to keep a lid on
prices by punishing speculation will likely make mat-
ters worse.

Libertarian Party of San Francisco
www.LPSF.org

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Opponent's Argument Against Proposition G

Real estate is a pawn in the game of global finance.
Easy money here and easy money from abroad work
to accelerate the unaffordability of San Francisco. This
proposition does nothing to alleviate the driving force,
but it is the blunt tool designed to punish small play-
ers at the end of the chain of money creation. The
hated speculator.There would be no speculators if
there was nothing to speculate on.They are speculat-
ing on inflation.The inflation is not their fault.They
didn't print trillions of dollars out of thin air.

What is also interesting about this proposition, like
almost all politics these days, is that it exempts the big
guys. Have more than thirty units, flip away.

This proposition also deters another class of specula-
tors: the improvers.The small business that is good at
renovating and doing it in a timely manner.The tax is
many times the existing rate. It is effectively a ban
with exemptions for politically sensitive classes.

It is a universal law of human nature that every law
has unintended consequences. It is likely that a new
class of speculator will emerge. It will probably be the

big corporations who have access to super cheap
money and can afford to let the property lie fallow for
five years to avoid the tax while inflation rages on. Do
you really want to punish the little guys who are not
the cause of the problem, and reward the giant corpo-
rations that control and feed at the trough of the
Federal Reserve's cheap loans? Do you want another
law that encourages more empty buildings waiting to
escape another tax?

Vote NO on Prop G.

Libertarian Party of San Francisco

San Francisco Libertarian Campaign Committee

Rebuttal to Opponent's Argument Against Proposition G

San Francisco is facing the worst housing crisis in its
history and real estate speculators are making windfall
profits as people lose their homes. We can keep the
City affordable and protect our neighborhoods by
passing Proposition G.

Don't believe the real estate industry's lies - they
have done nothing to help address San Francisco's
housing crisis and have a financial interest in allowing
speculation to continue.

In 1978, Harvey Milk introduced legislation to stop real
estate speculators and help keep people in their
homes. It never became law but now, nearly 40 years
later, rampant real estate speculation is making the
City unaffordable once again.

Proposition G is a measured response to our housing
crisis and is targeted at the multi-unit apartment build-
ings where the problem of flipping is the worst: build-
ings able to be converted to condos.

Proposition G encourages property owners to make
long term investment in our communities. New own-
ers of multi-unit buildings do not pay the tax if they
make a long term investment.

Proposition G does not apply to any single family
home, condominium or any owner occupied housing -
only speculators who flip buildings will pay this tax.

San Francisco values mean choosing people over
profit - together we can pass Proposition G to stop the
speculation and finish what Harvey Milk started.

Join us and the San Francisco Democratic Party in vot-
ing Yes on Proposition G.

Harvey Milk LGBT Democratic Club

Cl eve Jones, The Names Project AIDS Memorial Quilt

Senior and Disability Action

San Francisco Labor Council

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Between 2009 and 2013, 78% of all Ellis Act evictions
in San Francisco were in buildings that changed hands
within five years or less according to Anti-Eviction
Mapping Project research.The straight line relation-
ship between speculation and evictions is clear.
Proposition G protects rent controlled buildings,
exempting single family homes, new construction,
and very large buildings.

Proposition G is a reasonable solution to an unreason-
able situation and will reduce the unjust eviction of
our neighbors, friends, and families.

Yes on G.

The Haight Ashbury Neighborhood Council

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Haight Ashbury Neighborhood Council.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Prop G good for Affordable Housing

San Francisco needs immediate solutions to our
housing affordability crisis for working and middle
class residents of the City. We do not need real estate
speculators prospecting our city's existing precious
housing stock and driving up rents and fueling evic-
tions. Prop G offers a real way to stop speculation and
keep San Francisco affordable for all.

Vote YES on G to keep housing affordable!

The Council of Community Housing Organizations

Bernal Heights Neighborhood Center

Chinatown Community Development Center

Community Housing Partnership

SF Community Land Trust

Dolores Street Community Services

HomeownershipSF

Tenants and Owners Development Corporation
Mission Economic Development Agency

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument:The Council of Community Housing
Organizations.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

As Asian American and Pacific Islander service provid-
ers, we are personally committed to helping our City's
seniors, youth and families. We urge you to vote YES
on G.

Today's housing crisis hurts the most vulnerable in
our community. Too many long-time San Franciscans

cannot afford to stay in the City.Too many tenants, like
the Lee family evicted last year, are being forced from
their homes without any fault of their own.

Proposition G is a reasonable answer to this crisis. It

discourages unfair speculation in apartments while
NOT increasing taxes on homeowners. Most landlords
are fair and invest in property for the long term - they
have no reason to be concerned about this proposal.
Only short term speculators will be affected.

Proposition G protects seniors, families, and afford-
able housing. It will prevent more families from losing
their homes. Proposition G deserves support from us
all.

Anni Chung
Rev. Norman Fong
Pam Tau Lee
Steve Nakajo
Chris Punongbayan
Anthony Robles
Bernadette Sy
Sarah Wan

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument:The Authors.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Proposition G is Good for Neighborhoods

Real estate speculation is undermining the character,
diversity and affordability of all of our neighborhoods!

It affects homeowners and tenants.

Long-term investment and long-term residents are
good for neighborhoods. Short-term flips are not

San Francisco is a city of neighborhoods - let's pre-
serve them!

Vote YES on G!

Jason Henderson, Hayes Valley Neighborhood
Association*

Paul Wermer, Neighborhood Network*

Bruce Bonaker

Richard Johnson, Co-founder, Community Partners
United*

Daniela Kirshenbaum, SF Neighborhood Network*
Alan Beach-Nelson, Eureka Valley Neighborhood
Association*

Judy Berkowitz, President, Coalition for San Francisco
Neighborhoods*

Danny Yadegar, Duboce Triangle
Marlayne Morgan

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans Against Real Estate Speculation.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
Eviction Defense Collaborative.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

We are proud to be San Francisco homeowners and to
support Proposition G.

Being a property speculator is not the same as being a
homeowner in San Francisco. Prop G is about specula-
tors, not us.

It does not increase taxes on any single-family homes
or condominiums, owner-occupied TICs, and even
homes with in-laws units. We don't believe the lies
being made about Prop G by realtors.

Speculators and the instability they create are not
good for homeowners, neighborhoods, or our City.

We vote YES on G.

Buck Bagot
Katy Wilcoxen
Amy Beinart
Jeffrey Miller*

Bill Shields
Laurel Muniz

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans Against Real Estate Speculation.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
Eviction Defense Collaborative.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Protect our Neighborhoods, Vote Yes on G!

As a long time homeowner, I am voting Yes on G to
protect our neighborhoods from out of control real
estate speculation.

Esther Marks

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Franciscans Against Real Estate Speculation.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
Eviction Defense Collaborative.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Ammiano Says Yes on G!

Real estate speculation is driving up housing prices
and fueling evictions. With the defeat of Ellis Act
reform in Sacramento this year, it is imperative we act
locally to stop speculative behavior that is hurting
both tenants and homeowners. Prop G will do that.

Vote YES on G!

AssemblymemberTom Ammiano

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Tenants Union.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Tenants Rights Organizations Say Yes on G

San Francisco is facing a severe housing crisis with
soaring rents and evictions. Real estate speculators
are driving this crisis by preying on our most vulnera-
ble tenants. Everyone is at risk! We need to stop the
flip! Vote Yes on G!

Affordable Housing Alliance
Community Tenants Association
Eviction Defense Collaborative
Housing Rights Committee
SF Tenants Union
Tenderloin Housing Clinic
Tenants Together

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Tenants Union.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Workers Say Yes on G

Most evictions in San Francisco are being done by just
12 or so speculators.They buy, evict and then sell at
huge profits. Prop G will put the brakes on these spec-
ulators. Vote YES.

Eviction Free San Francisco
Anti Eviction Mapping Project

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Tenants Union.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Democratic Party Says Yes on G!

San Francisco is facing the most severe housing crisis
in history. We need Prop G to stop the epidemic of
evictions by real estate speculators. Vote YES.

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Democratic Party.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Real estate speculators have descended on the
Mission District, displacing thousands of Latino fami-
lies from their homes and businesses. We need to
keep San Francisco affordable for all. Vote YES on G.

Causa Justa :: Just Cause

Mission Economic Development Association

PODER

Latino Democratic Club

CALLE 24 LATINO CULTURAL DISTRICT

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Tenants Union.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Workers Say Yes on G

San Francisco workers --the people who make this city
function -are being driven out by real estate specula-
tors who are driving up rents and evictions. Prop G
will end rampant speculation. Vote YES.

San Francisco Labor Council
UNITE HERE Local 2
Jobs With Justice

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Tenants Union.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

We need to stop the runaway real estate speculation
which is fueling our housing crisis. Join us in voting
YES on G.

Sup. John Avalos
Sup. David Campos
Sup. Eric Mar

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Tenants Union.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Stop Evictions of Seniors and People with Disabilities

Seniors and people with disabilities are being evicted
from their homes by real estate speculators who flip
(buy, evict, and sell). No more evictions! YES on G!

Senior and Disability Action
Gray Panthers

Independent Living Resource Center SF
AIDS Legal Referral Panel

California Alliance for Retired Americans
FDR Democratic Club of SF PAC

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Senior and Disability Action (individual dona-
tions).

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

We are African-American homeowners who success-
fully fought Wall St. banks and their predatory loans
that resulted in foreclosure for so many of our neigh-
bors. Many others were not as fortunate.

City Hall has ignored numerous recommendations to
reign in profit driven speculation and displacement to
protect the remaining black communities. As a result
we saw the loss of a generation of middle-class com-
munities of color. African-Americans are now below
6% of the population of a city famous for its diversity.

The wave of real estate speculation that impacted our
neighborhoods now has expanded in other forms with
evictions displacing thousands across the city. Once
again speculators seek short term gains at the expense
of current residents.

We stand in unity with tenants all over the city in
support of Proposition G to stop such speculation and
save San Francisco's economic and social diversity.
Let's join together to stop all forms of greedy Wall
Street speculation and before it is too late.

YES ON PROP G FORTHE GREATER GOOD OFTHE
CITY.

Frank King
Buck Bagot
Vivian Richardson
Thigdora Batte

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Buck Bagot.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Don't believe the Realtor Association's lies about Prop.
G. Get the facts about this carefully written measure.
Visit www.SpeculationFreeSF.com for more informa-
tion about Prop. G.

Prop. G will help stop real estate speculators from
ruining our neighborhoods. Vote "yes" on G!

Dean Preston

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument:The Author.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Speculation driven evictions prey on immigrants and
exploit their limited English capacities and documen-
tation status. Speculation drives up rents making
housing unaffordable for immigrants in all of San
Francisco. We need to stop the flip. Vote Yes on G.

Dolores St. Community Services

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Tenants Union.

End of Paid Arguments IN FAVOR of Proposition G

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

STOP UNFAIRTAXATION - VOTE NO ON G

San Francisco imposes a real estate transfer tax of up
to 2.50%.

Proposition G imposes an additional tax of up to 24%
based on length of time residential property is owned.

If Proposition G passes, flats sold for $1 million could
pay $247,500 in taxes! A downtown office building
would have to sell for $12 million to pay the same tax!
Small property owners forced to sell because of job
relocation or other unexpected event could have their
investment wiped out by this unfair tax.

Last year San Francisco collected $225 million in trans-
fer taxes. Enough is enough. Vote NO on G.

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce and its 1,500
local businesses.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

San Francisco Apartment Association (SFAA)

We are dedicated to housing affordability and have
been advocates for rental housing in San Francisco
since 1917. Given the current rental conditions in San
Francisco, it is clear that a massive new tax on
housing is not the way to lower our city's housing
costs. Our city must address the housing affordability
crisis, but San Francisco deserves real solutions -not
last minute measures riddled with loopholes that
saddle the average San Franciscan with a record tax.

This measure will create a new tax on many homes
sold in San Francisco -up to 24% of the total sale
price -making it one of the highest taxes ever levied.
Even worse, not one cent of any revenue raised from

this proposed tax is guaranteed to go toward afford-
able housing or any housing whatsoever.

San Francisco will lose if Prop. G wins in November:

Small Building Owners Lose: If an owner of a small
building can no longer maintain a property, this
measure will deter owners from making the responsi-
ble decision to sell the property.

Residents of Small Buildings Lose: Residents in small
buildings are not protected from the potential increase
in prices driven by Prop. G.

Residents of Large Buildings Lose: Because the propo-
nents of Prop. G exempted large buildings, they will
remain a target for exactly the kind of "flipping" the
authors say they want to stop.

San Francisco deserves a real solution to our very real
housing crisis, not Prop G.

San Francisco Apartment Association

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Apartment Association PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. West Coast Property Management, 2. West &
Praszker Realtors, 3. Malta & Co. Inc.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

Professional Property Management Association of
San Francisco

At the Professional Property Management Association,
we are dedicated to the highest standards of fair,
ethical and effective property management.This
massive new tax on housing is not fair, ethical or
effective. We believe in supporting affordable housing
in San Francisco, but a housing tax with loopholes
that lacks protections for our city's residents is not the
way to lower housing costs.

Under Prop. G, housing will become more expensive
as it imposes an additional tax and provides no pro-
tection from the increased cost being passed on to
homebuyers or tenants. Furthermore, large buildings
are exempted under Prop. G, making them a target for
exactly the kind of "flipping" the measure is supposed
to stop.

In addition, under Prop G, property owners are
deterred from selling property if they can no longer
afford to maintain it. Rather, it will be cheaper for the
property owners to continue owning the property
while failing to maintain it --hurting renters, our
housing stock, and our vibrant neighborhoods.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

EU

Although proponents of Prop. G have offered it as a
solution to the current housing crisis, not one cent of
any revenue raised through this new tax is required to
go towards affordable housing or any new housing.

We need real solutions to the housing crisis --not a
measure so poorly drafted it will make the problem
worse.

Professional Property Management Association of
San Francisco

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Apartment Association PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. West Coast Property Management, 2. West &
Praszker Realtors, 3. Malta & Co. Inc.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

Coalition for Better Housing (CBH)

We cannot tax our way out of a housing crisis. Prop. G
proposes a surtax of up to 24% on top of the current
real property transfer tax. San Francisco is facing a
major housing crisis and imposing an additional tax
that makes housing more expensive makes absolutely
no sense.

This is an unprecedented tax and is levied on the full
sale price of the property, regardless of whether an
owner profits on the sale. Proponents of Prop. G often
cite Supervisor Harvey Milk as the author of this idea.
However, the measure that Supervisor Milk proposed
only levied a fee on profits gained by owners, not on
the sale price. Milk also included exemptions for the
average San Francisco homeowner in order to truly
and accurately target speculators, while Prop. G leaves
many vulnerable to this massive housing tax.

This law isn't just about future homebuyers. If this
measure becomes law, it will apply retroactively,
which means new homeowners who have purchased
their properties in the last five years should beware
--this law will apply to you even if you purchased your
property before the passes.

Although many renters in San Francisco aspire to
become homeowners, the cost of housing keeps the
ownership dream out of reach of many middle class
families. The Prop. G housing tax will do nothing to
make this dream more achievable and may actually
make it even harder to obtain.This tax will lead to
fewer properties on the housing and rental market and
make those homes that are available more expensive.
At a time when a lack of housing is clearly increasing
costs, it makes no sense to encourage inventory to be
constricted even more.

Coalition for Better Housing

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Apartment Association PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. West Coast Property Management, 2. West &
Praszker Realtors, 3. Malta & Co. Inc.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

This will create a new tax on many homes sold in San
Francisco —up to 24% of the total sale price, or
upwards of $240,000. San Francisco homes to buy
and apartments to rent already cost too much. This
massive new tax will only drive up the cost of housing
further.

Don't raise the cost of housing - NO on Prop. G
Michael Chan

Asian Inc., Affordable Housing Provider

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Association of Realtors.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

As realtors, our job is to get families into homes and
help people achieve homeownership. We know that to
do that, we must increase housing availability and
improve housing affordability. Prop. G will make
housing more expensive and harder to find because it
forces homeowners to keep their property off the
market or face a massive tax bill.

Prop. G means home sellers will face a surtax of up to
24% of the total sale price, which is in addition to the
current transfer tax. While some home sellers will
absorb some of this additional cost, the reality is that
much of this expense will get passed on to new home-
buyers and then future tenants.

This housing tax is significant enough to make home
sellers reconsider selling their property altogether. It
will cause owners to hold their property longer than
they would have otherwise, which would constrict the
number of properties available on the market even
more. Many agree that the current lack of inventory is
what is driving record housing costs, and it is appar-
ent that Prop. G will only drive those costs higher.

There are many steps that must be taken to address
San Francisco's pressing housing issues, but we
believe that the most important step towards creating
more affordable and available housing is to build new
housing for all income levels.

Eugene Pak

Government Affairs Committee Co-Chair, Board of
Directors

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

San Francisco Association of Realtors

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Association of Realtors.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

60% of Chinese Americans in San Francisco are small
property owners, and many of them rent out in-law
units. Proposition G will force small homeowners into
removing in-law units once renters vacate, which will
create a huge reduction in affordable housing supply
in the city. For Chinese Americans who are renters,
half of them are denied rent control and paying mar-
ket-rate rent. Proposition G will increase housing costs
and further increase market rents for these first-gener-
ation immigrants.

This unprecedented new tax on housing, which will hit
both owners and tenants, is not the way to lower
housing costs. The only thing that Proposition G will
do is worsen the housing affordability crisis.

Please vote NO on Proposition G.

Josephine Zhao
AsianAmerican Voter.org

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Asian American Voters.org.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

We are advocates for public policies that will reduce
barriers between home ownership and Asian
American communities. Prop. G is a barrier between
home ownership and all San Franciscans. By imposing
a particularly onerous tax on the sale of property, up
to 24% of the total sale price, the American Dream of
homeownership becomes a distant dream for many.

It makes homes more expensive because, in order to
avoid this punitive tax, owners will hold on to their
properties longer—constricting supply in an already
scarce housing market. In addition, this measure
makes homes more expensive because it is very likely
that this is a cost that will not only be paid by sellers,
but passed on to buyers.

Prop. G won't help stabilize the housing market for
middle class San Franciscans or protect low-income
residents. Instead, it will make housing more expen-
sive for everyone, whether you rent or own. It is indis-
putable that property costs in San Francisco have sky-
rocketed—reaching $1 million median home price, but
Prop. G is not the answer to making San Francisco
more affordable. A $240,000 tax on housing, in addi-
tion to the city's transfer tax, is not the way to make
homes more affordable.

Allen Ching
President

Asian Real Estate Association of America
San Francisco Pennisula Chapter

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

For many in the Chinese community, homeownership
is a part of the American Dream that brought them to
this country. Immigrants aspire to live in a country
where success is attainable through hard work and
nothing defines that better than the ability to own your
own home. Now, Prop. G threatens this dream.

We are undoubtedly facing a housing crisis in San
Francisco, but Prop. G is not the way to fix it. Prop. G
imposes a surtax of up to 24% on the sale price of
most homes sold within 5 years of purchase. With the
cost of housing already at record levels, attaching a
tax to our housing makes it even more expensive and
will do nothing to alleviate the current housing crisis.

In fact, Prop. G will make the housing crisis worse.
Many agree that the current housing condition is the
result of a lack of available housing. Over the last two
decades, San Francisco built an average of 1,500 units
per year, which is significantly fewer than the 3,000 to

4.000	units needed to keep pace with demand. Yet, this
measure will deeply impact the estimated 30,000 to

50.000	homes with in-law units in San Francisco-
many of which contribute to the rental market supply.
The logical response of owners risking this tax will be
to avoid that risk by removing in-law units from the
market.

If Prop. G passes, the result will likely be higher rents.
And that's the last thing San Franciscans can afford.

Chris Siow
President-Elect

Chinese Real Estate Association of America

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

Stuff happens. There are many reasons why an owner
might sell a building in less than five years. Family
tragedies force us to move to be closer to our loved
ones. We receive unexpected job transfers. We
usually sell to buyers not so different from ourselves,
homeowners. Occasionally we sell to an investor who
may improve the building and resell it; sometimes the
tenants must move. We understand this very upset-

EU

ting to the renters. However, these renters receive up
to one-year's notice, PLUS, the difference between
their old rent and their new rent for 2 years, a
minimum of $5,200 per occupant. A tenant who must
pay $2000/month more for a similar rental would
receive $48,000 from the owners!

Proposition G adds a new and punishing tax, on the
total SALES PRICE, not the profit, which means that if
the seller receives even $1 more than he paid for the
building, he is subject to the new tax, beginning at
24% in the first year. This tax goes to the San
Francisco General Fund; it does not ease the transition
for the tenant in any way. It will only make all build-
ings more expensive, and raise the cost of rents.

For example, if an owner buys a residential property
for $1,000,000 and sells it less than one year later for
$1,000,001, the new tax would be $240,000 (24% of
the sale price), resulting in a huge loss to the seller,
whether a renter was displaced or not. The result will
be FEWER HOMES FOR SALE and FEWER RENTALS
OFFERED to prospective tenants.

We are an organization of owners of small rental
buildings. We advocate for fair landlord/tenant regula-
tions. We support home ownership. VOTE NO ON
PROPOSITION G!

SMALL PROPERTY OWNERS OF SAN FRANCISCO

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Small Property Owners of San Francisco.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

The ill-conceived Proposition G will diminish the
supply and increase the cost of already-scarce and
already-expensive homes, making it even more chal-
lenging for middle-class families to buy a home here.

It penalizes property sellers who own for shorter than
an approved duration and sell for non-approved
reasons under a morass of criteria. Who will track,
adjudicate, and pay for this micromanagement?

Illogically, Proposition G exempts millionaire-owned
buildings of 30 units or more from this onerous tax
while penalizing middle-income property owners of
buildings with as few as two units. It could fuel costly
litigation against the City because its imbalances
would cause financial injury.

Vote No on Proposition G

San Francisco Republican Party
Harmeet Dhillon, Chair

Charles Cagnon, Matthew Del Carlo, Jason F Clark,
John Dennis, Howard Epstein, Alisa Farenzena, Terence
Faulkner; Barry Graynor, Christine Hughes, Joan
Leone, Rodney Leongr Dana Walsh, Rich Wornerf
GabrieUa Bartonico, Christopher L. Bowman,

Stephanie Jeong, Daniel Higa

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Republican Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. Charles M. Munger, 2. Christine Hughes,

3. Dhillon Smith.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

We as renters would have supported Prop. G but can't,
because the exemptions are inadequate.These exemp-
tions could have been easily added without affecting
the intent of the proposition to prevent evictions and
flipping.

Single family homeowners are only exempted from
this tax increase (up to 24% and retroactive) if they are
married couples or single persons. Otherwise, unmar-
ried couples (gay or straight), family members or
friends who hold titles as tenancy-in-common, have to
live in the single family home for 1 year to be exempt-
ed. During this time, or the 5-year placed on 2 to 30
units, unexpected circumstances may occur, such as
job transfers, under-employment (but still making
more than 120% of median income), gambling debs,
or stock market crashes. Prop. G would hurt everyday
people who face real life emergencies.

Prop. G will limit renters' upward mobility by impos-
ing this surtax on single family homes with inlaw
units, which are often the properties first-time home-
buyers can afford.This huge surtax levied on the
saleprice of the property (not the net profit), with little
consideration on the nature of the sale, will discour-
age many renters from becoming homeowners in San
Francisco.

Although we support the prevention of evictions and
flipping, we can't support this proposition without the
added exemptions.

Steve Robinson

Renters for BetterHousingPolicies.org

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Renters for BetterHousingPolicies.org.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.



Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

Voting "No" on Prop. G does not mean that you
support speculation, evictions or the displacement of
long time San Franciscans. It means that you believe
San Francisco needs a more sensible solution to the
housing and affordability crises.

Prop. G is an unprecedented tax on housing, but
revenue generated from the tax IS NOT dedicated to
any affordable housing funds or any housing funds at
all.

In addition. Prop. G threatens a tax of 14-24% on the
sale of the estimated 50,000 single family homes that
happen to have legal or illegal in-law units. With the
median home price in San Francisco reaching $1
million, this means paying an additional $140,000 to
$240,000 in taxes.

There are no exceptions for loss or transfer of job,
death in family or change in circumstance.

There are no exceptions for people over 63, who often
need their homes for financial security and to stay in
San Francisco.There are no exceptions for single-fami-
ly homes with in-law units. Both were major aspects
of Harvey Milk's proposal.

Prop. G offers no tenant protections, but threatens an
astronomical tax on housing across the board without
regard to evictions or tenant displacement.

As a renter, a housing tax that does not protect
tenants but increases housing costs for both tenants
and owners just doesn't make sense.

Vote No on G. San Francisco deserves a better solu-
tion.

Charley Goss, Renter

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Apartment Association PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. West Coast Property Management, 2. West +
Praszker Realtors, 3. Malta + Co. Inc.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

When San Franciscans invest in their home, it's the
most important decision they make.

Thousands of San Franciscans own homes with the
help of City programs for down payment assistance,
financial counseling and below market rate develop-
ment.

Proposition G says it protects renters. Sadly,
Proposition G is so poorly worded that everyday
homeowners could see an unexpected 25% tax and
lose everything. The same homeowners who received
City help would be especially vulnerable under
Proposition G.

First time homeowners who realized their dream
would be subject to this tax if they sell their home
within five years. Medical emergency or job loss are
not considered under Proposition G.

There are no exemptions for these critical situations,
but there are other loopholes that let out of town
property owners off the hook.

San Francisco must do everything to keep working
families in our City. Proposition G forces families out.
Vote No on G.

Fiona Ma, CPA

Candidate for State Board of Equalization
Supervisor Mark Farrell
Supervisor KatyTang

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Fiona Ma for State Board of Equalization 2014.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

Proponents of Prop. G say Supervisor Harvey Milk first
proposed this idea, but that is misleading. Prop. G is
far from the measure envisioned by the late
Supervisor Harvey Milk.

The measure Milk proposed only levied a fee on
profits gained by owners, not on the sales price. Milk's
measure exempted the up to 50,000 single-family
homes with secondary (in-law) units. He also exempt-
ed any owner over 63, understanding that many
seniors use their homes as retirement nest eggs.

We can all agree that there is much to be done to fix
the housing crisis in San Francisco, but Prop. G is not
the answer and not the answer proposed by former
Supervisor Milk.

Vote no on Prop. G.

Marianne Mazzucco Thompson

Third-Generation San	Franciscan

Ken Cleveland, Member*

Alice B. Toklas LGBT Democratic Club

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Alliance for Jobs and Sustainable Growth.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

134	Paid Arguments - Proposition G	38-EN-N14-CP134	
			
Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G		Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G	
Prop. G is a housing tax that increases the cost of		We need real solutions to make housing more afford-	

housing in San Francisco by imposing a surtax of up
to 24 percent of the sale price of most residential
properties.

If this measure becomes law, it will apply retroactively,
which means new homeowners who have purchased
their properties in the last five years should beware—
this law will apply to you even if you purchased your
property in the past.

Prop. G carries no protections for seniors.There are no
exemptions if you get sick, lose a job or need to care
for a family member. And remember, it is not a tax on
profits; it is a tax on the entire sales price of your
home or unit up to 24%, which makes it the largest tax
in San Francisco history.

This measure was rushed to the ballot, and it shows. It
is full of politics, loopholes and plans that will backfire.

Don't make the problem worse. Vote NO on G.

Calvin Louie

Chinese American Democratic Club

able - not a poorly planed and obviously political
measure that is certain to backfire.

A new housing tax is not the way to make housing in
San Francisco more accessible or affordable for
middle class families. Prop. G will only make the
housing crisis worse, and it will leave many middle
class families vulnerable.

As written, this measure will impact the estimated

50,000	single-family homes with in-law units in San
Francisco. Many will be faced with an additional tax
bill of up to $240,000.

This new tax will only increase the cost of homes. If
people hold on to their properties longer to avoid the
tax, there will be even less available housing —making
housing harder to find and more expensive. Or, if
people sell their homes, they face an unprecedented
tax bill that they will try to recoup with even higher
sales prices. Rents will also likely go up as new
owners pass on the tax bill to future renters. All these
outcomes are bad for San Franciscans, particularly
middle class families.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Alliance for Jobs and Sustainable Growth.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

Prop. G will create a new tax on many homes sold in
San Francisco —up to 24% of the total sales price. San
Francisco homes and rentals already cost too much.
This massive new tax will only mean they cost more.
Far from protecting the middle class. Prop. G contains
zero protections against this tax being passed on to
new homebuyers and tenants.

We all agree: we need more affordable housing.
Unfortunately, Prop. G makes no provisions to ensure
that the revenue raised from this massive new tax will
be directed towards alleviating the current housing
crisis. Prop. G is bad for San Francisco and bad for the
middle class.

Vote no on Prop. G.

Vince J. Courtney Jr.

Executive Director

Alliance for Jobs and Sustainable Growth

San Franciscans who have made this city great should
be able to stay in this city, and people who work in
San Francisco should be able to afford homes in San
Francisco. We need to build more housing - and the
last thing we want to do is put up to 50,000 affordable
rental units at risk.

Please join us in voting NO on Prop. G

Vince Courtney Jr.

LiUNAi Local 261

Construction and General Laborers Union

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Alliance for Jobs and Sustainable Growth.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

A massive new tax on housing, which will hit both
owners and renters, is not the way to lower housing
costs. Prop G won't stop speculators, but it will hit
small property owners who haven't evicted anyone
and who need to sell their property within 5 years of
buying it.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Alliance for Jobs and Sustainable Growth.

Need to sell your property within 5 years of purchase
due to illness, job loss, or needing to move? Get ready
to pay up to 24% of the sale price as a tax. Yes, 24% of
the entire sale price, not just the profit.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

There are many personal reasons having nothing to
do with speculation why people have to sell property.
Prop G, however, doesn't distinguish between specu-
lators and small owners who haven't evicted anyone.
This housing tax will force owners who have done
nothing wrong to pay a 24% tax on the total sale price
of their property.

Prop G is being misleadingly sold as the speculator
tax proposed by Harvey Milk, but it is no such thing.
Harvey Milk's measure exempted seniors and single-
family homes with secondary units. Prop. G does
neither. Moreover, Harvey Milk's proposal taxed ONLY
THE PROFIT of a short term property sale, whereas
Prop G taxes the ENTIRE SALE PRICE, not just the
profit. This is a huge difference.

In addition, not one cent of any revenue from Prop G
will have to go toward affordable housing —it can all
be diverted.

Prop. G is a massive tax that only makes housing
more expensive—for owners and renters.There are
zero protections against passing on all the costs to
new owners or tenants.

We need real solutions to the housing crisis —not a
measure so poorly drafted it will make the problem
worse.

Supervisor Scott Wiener
Supervisor Mark Farrell
Supervisor KatyTang

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Alliance for Jobs and Sustainable Growth.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

A punitive tax on housing is not the way to deal with a
housing shortage.

Homeownership is source of great pride and a goal
that many in our community work hard to earn.Today,
we face a very real housing shortage, and we need
thoughtful solutions so that all San Franciscans can
continue to call our city home.

But Prop. G would make it even more difficult for San
Franciscans to buy homes and has the potential to
dramatically reduce supply of both homes and rental
units.

The politicians behind Prop. G may mean well, but
they clearly know little about housing.

Giving owners an incentive to take secondary units off
the market will make rents go higher.

A tax on homes that could be $240,000 or even higher
will just make homes more expensive.

The failure to include large buildings where so many
seniors live shows they didn't think the measure
through before they rushed it to the ballot.

We need to make housing more affordable, not more
expensive. NO on G!

Mary Jung
Former President*

Asian Pacific Democratic Club

Ted Fang

Former Executive Director*

Asian Week Foundation

Caryl Ito

Founding Member*

Pacific Asian American Women Bay Area Coalition
Tom Hsieh

Democratic County Central Committee Member*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Alliance for Jobs and Sustainable Growth.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition G

Hardworking San Franciscans are already struggling to
find affordable homes and apartments, and we need
to work together to find a solution to our current
housing crisis. Prop. G is not that solution.

Prop. G would impose a tax of as much as 24 percent
on the sale of any home with a secondary unit if that
home is sold within five years of purchase. The city
estimates there up to 50,000 of these units, which
provide so much of our affordable rental housing.
Giving owners of these units the incentive to take the
rental units off the market will make the housing crisis
worse.

Prop. G fails to provide exemptions for owners who
face real emergencies and need to sell their homes—
job loss or transfer, death in the family, sale to a
family member or financial hardship. And unlike the
legislation proposed by the late Supervisor Harvey
Milk, Prop. G does not exempt seniors.

The hard reality is that Prop. G will make the problem
worse, driving out middle class families because only
the very rich could pay these massive new costs. And
what's most galling, is that not once cent of the new
tax is earmarked for affordable housing.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Prop. G will make the problem worse. Joining us in
voting NO on G.

Mary Jung

Democratic County Central Committee Member*

Leah Pimentel

Democratic County Central Committee Member*
Rebecca Prozan

Democratic County Central Committee Member*
William Fazio

Democratic County Central Committee Member*

Tom Hsieh

Democratic County Central Committee Member*

Kat Anderson

Democratic County Central Committee Member*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Alliance for Jobs and Sustainable Growth.

E!SJ

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.