TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO MEASURE E

MEASURE E: To maintain and yES

enhance San Anselmo Library __________________

open hours, adult and children’s

programs, and general library services, I____________

shall an ordinance be adopted approving a Special
Library Services Tax of $54.00 per year per real estate
parcel located in San Anselmo with a three percent
(3%) annual cost of living increase, for a period of nine
(9) years to augment money from the Town of San
Anselmo’s funding of library services and with expen-
ditures monitored by an oversight committee?

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE E

Special Library Services Tax

If approved by the voters, the measure would adopt a
Town of San Anselmo ordinance imposing a Special Library
Services Tax on all residential and non-residential parcels in
San Anselmo, the proceeds of which would be used exclu-
sively for library services at the San Anselmo Public Library.

The special tax would be imposed each year for nine
years starting in fiscal year 2015-2016, at the rate of $54 per
parcel on all parcels. The tax would increase each year by
3% as a result of a cost of living adjustment. The tax would
be included on and payable with the property owner’s Marin
County property tax bill.

The measure would require that the tax proceeds be used
only locally to maintain and enhance San Anselmo Library
open hours, adult and children’s programs, and general
library services.

The measure would require that the tax proceeds be
placed into a separate account subject to an annual report by
the Town’s Finance Director. In addition, the measure
requires the Town Council to establish a Library Tax Over-
sight Committee to review and report on the use of the rev-
enues generated by Special Library Services Tax.

The purpose of the tax would be to augment the Town of
San Anselmo’s funding for the Library, and not to replace
such funding. Accordingly, if the Town were to reduce its
annual funding of the Library, then the tax would continue
only if the Town’s funding of the Library were to remain
above ninety percent of the amount budgeted for 2012-2013.
That amount is $449,765. If the Town Council were to adopt
a budget that reduced Library funding below that amount,
then the tax would no longer be levied.

The measure would provide a full or partial rebate of the
tax, upon approved application to the Town’s Tax Equity
Board, for any person claiming inability to pay the tax.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the
measure would provide that the appropriations limit for the
Town would be increased one times the aggregate sum
authorized to be levied as a special tax in each of the nine
years proposed for the Special Library Services Tax.

To become effective, the measure must be approved by
two-thirds of the electors voting at the election.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

s/ROBERT F. EPSTEIN
Town Attorney of San Anselmo

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

In 2010, San Anselmo voters overwhelmingly passed a
Library Parcel Tax to enhance and improve the San An-
selmo Public Library. That measure has succeeded in
adding Library hours, services and a children’s librarian,
but is about to expire. Measure E will renew and augment
those funds, ensuring the continuation of service improve-
ments gained since 2010, including:

o Ten additional open hours each week
o Expanded access to over 11 million titles through
Link+

o The purchase of eBooks, eAudio books and eMaga-
zines

o Reading and story time programs for toddlers and
preschoolers

o Arts, culture and educational programs for children
and teens, including poetry writing, book groups
and storytelling
o Expanded adult programs featuring arts, cuisine,
travel and gardens
o The Discover & Go free museum pass program for
Bay Area museums
o The addition of online language learning resources
o Wired Wednesday technology assistance for Library
patrons

o A curb-side book-drop on Library Place
The community-based Parcel Tax Oversight Committee
has worked hard to ensure that the parcel tax money has
been spent as the voters intended. Since 2010, the Library
has increased circulation 25%, program participation has
increased 300%, and Library visits have reached 104,000
per year.

The San Anselmo Town Council unanimously approved
this ballot measure to ensure that the Library programs
and services added in recent years will continue and that
future enhancements can be made - all for less than the
cost of one movie ticket per month.

Please vote “yes” on this measure to maintain the gains
and continue the progress that has been made in the devel-
opment of many exciting and educational Library pro-
grams that serve the entire community.
s/TOM McINERNEY
Mayor
s/KAY COLEMAN
Council Member
s/ANNELISE BAUER
Ross Valley School Board Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E
WAS SUBMITTED.

SAE-1

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO

ORDINANCE NO._________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE
TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO ADOPTING A SPECIAL
LIBRARY SERVICES TAX BY AMENDING CHAP-
TER 7 “SPECIAL LIBRARY SERVICES TAX” OF
THE SAN ANSELMO MUNICIPAL CODE
(June 3,2014, Ballot Measure)

THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. AMENDMENTS TO CODE. Effective
July 1, 2015, Chapter 7 of the San Anselmo Municipal
Code, entitled “Special Library Services Tax”, is hereby
amended as follows:

8-7.01 Title

This chapter shall be known as the “Special Library
Services Tax Law of the Town of San Anselmo”.

8-7.02 Necessity, Authority, and Purpose
The voters of San Anselmo hereby determine that the cost
to maintain and enhance San Anselmo Library open hours,
adult and children’s programs, and general library services
for the residents of the Town of San Anselmo exceeds the
amount of funds and revenues provided by the Town and
generated from all other sources. The voters further deter-
mine that the levy of a Special Library Services Tax of
$54.00 (fifty four dollars and no cents), with a three per-
cent (3%) annual cost of living increase, on each real
estate parcel located in the Town of San Anselmo for a
period of nine (9) years, when added to all other current
library funding and revenues, would be sufficient to main-
tain an adequate level of library services. Accordingly, a
tax is imposed by this chapter pursuant to California
Government Code Section 37100.5.

8-7.03 Tax Imposed

A Special Library Services Tax of $54.00 (fifty four dol-
lars and no cents), with a three percent (3%) annual cost of
living increase, on each real estate parcel located in the
Town of San Anselmo, is hereby imposed effective July 1,
2015, and levied annually for a period of nine (9) years
through and including June 30,2024.

8-7.04 Impact of Town Funding of the
Library on the Tax

The express purpose of this tax is to augment funding cur-
rently provided by the Town of San Anselmo, and not to
supplant or replace such funding. Therefore, if during the
term of the tax set forth in Section 8-7.03, the Town should
determine that conditions warrant a reduction in its annu-
al funding of the Library, the tax will continue to be levied
only if the Town funding of the library remains above
ninety percent (90%) of the amount budgeted for the
2012-2013 fiscal year, which is $449,765. If the Town
Council adopts a budget that reduces funding below that
amount, this Chapter will immediately become invalid in
its entirety and the tax imposed by this Chapter will no
longer be levied.

8-7.05 Inviolability of Tax Revenue

Revenue to the Library provided by this Special Library
Services Tax may not under any circumstances be subject
to appropriation to any purpose other than annual funding
of the Library.

8-7.06 Increase of Appropriations Limit

California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations
limit for the Town of San Anselmo will be increased one
times (lx) the aggregate sum authorized to be levied as a
special tax in each of the years covered by this ordinance.
8-7.07 Use of County Records

The records of the Marin County Assessor as of March 1
of each year may be used to determine the actual use of
each parcel of real property for the purpose of determining
the tax imposed by this chapter.

8-7.08 Personal Liability

The tax levied and imposed by this chapter shall be col-
lected by the Marin County Tax Collector at the same time
as, and along with, the property taxes collected by the
Marin County Tax Collector. However, the tax shall not
become a tax lien on the property against whose owner the
tax is assessed. The owner of the property shall be per-
sonally liable for nonpayment of the tax.

8-7.09 Deposit and Use of Funds from
Special Library Services Tax Fund
All proceeds from the taxes imposed and levied by this
chapter shall be paid into the “Special Library Services
Tax Lund” to be used exclusively to maintain and enhance
San Anselmo Library open hours, adult and children’s ser-
vices and general Library services.

8-7.10 Partial Invalidity

If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause of
this chapter is for any reason held by any court to be
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the remaining por-
tions of this chapter. The voters hereby declare that they
would have adopted this chapter, and each section, sub-
section, sentence, phrase, or clause thereof, irrespective of
whether any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
phrases, or clauses be declared for any reason invalid.
8-7.11 Rebates/Tax Equity Board
The Tax Equity Board established by resolution of the
Town Council shall receive and act upon applications for
full or partial rebates for persons claiming inability to pay
the tax provided for in this chapter. (Ordinance No. 845 § 1).
8-7.12 Exemptions

Improved property used exclusively for educational, sci-
entific, charitable, or religious purposes owned and oper-
ated by institutions, foundations, or corporations orga-
nized and operated for educational, hospital, scientific,
charitable, or religious purposes shall be granted an
exemption to the tax imposed by this chapter on proof that
any such organization has first qualified as an exempt
organization under California Revenue and Taxation Code
section 23701 (c) and United States Internal Revenue
Code section 501.

8-7.13 Penalty for Disclosure of Information on Appli-
cations for Rebate of Special Library Services Tax

Any person disclosing the name of any person or any
financial information obtained from an application for
rebate of a Special Library Services Tax shall be guilty of
an infraction.

8-7.14 Fiscal Accountability

The Town shall prepare an annual report pursuant to Cali-
fornia Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3.
The report will contain the amount of Special Library
Services Tax funds collected and expended, as well as the
status of any project funded by the special tax. Addi-
tionally, the Town Council shall establish a Library Tax
Oversight Committee to review and report on the use of
the revenues generated by Special Library Services Tax.
Section 2. EFFECTIVE DATE

This ordinance relates to the levying and collection of the
Town of San Anselmo Special Library Services Tax and
shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after the cer-
tification by the Town Council of the election returns indi-
cating passage of the Ordinance by two-thirds of the vot-
ers casting votes in the election. The Special Library
Services Tax will be assessed beginning fiscal year 2015-
2016.

SAE-3