San Francisco's Supervisorial Districts

San Francisco is divided into eleven Supervisorial
districts. For the November 4 election, San
Francisco voters who live in Districts 2, 4, 6, 8,
and 10 will elect their member of the Board of
Supervisors.

District 1 covers most of the Richmond neighbor-
hood.

District 2 includes the Presidio, Cow Hollow, Marina
and Pacific Heights neighborhoods, as well as part
of the Richmond neighborhood.

District 3 includes Chinatown, Nob Hill, Russian Hill,
Telegraph Hill and the northern Embarcadero water-
front.

District 4 covers most of the Sunset neighborhood.

District 5 includes the Haight-Ashbury, Inner Sunset,
Panhandle and Western Addition neighborhoods.

District 6 includes the Civic Center and South of
Market neighborhoods, part of the Potrero Hill
neighborhood, andTreasure Island.

To find your district, refer to the map below or the
number printed next to "SUP" on the front cover of
this pamphlet.

District 7 includes Lake Merced and West ofTwin
Peaks.

District 8 includes the Castro, Diamond Heights, Noe
Valley, Glen Park and Upper Market neighborhoods.

District 9 includes the Mission and Bernal Heights
neighborhoods and most of the Portola neighbor-
hood.

District 10 includes the Bayview and Hunter's Point
neighborhoods and part of the Potrero Hill, Visita-
cion Valley and Portola neighborhoods.

District 11 includes the Ingleside, Excelsior, Ocean
View and Merced Heights neighborhoods.

ESJ

Tax on Sugar-Sweetened Beverages

Shall the City collect a tax of 2 cents per ounce from the distributors of
sugar-sweetened beverages to fund health, nutrition, physical education
and active recreation programs?

Digest by the Ballot Simplification Committee

The Way It Is Now: The City does not impose a tax on
the distribution of sugar-sweetened beverages.
Consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages is linked
to serious health problems.

The Proposal: Proposition E would place a tax of 2
cents per ounce on sugar-sweetened beverages to
fund health, nutrition, physical education and active
recreation programs.

A sugar-sweetened beverage is a beverage that con-
tains added sugar and 25 or more calories per 12
ounces, including some soft drinks, sports drinks, iced
tea, juice drinks and energy drinks.The tax would also
apply to syrups and powders that can be made into
sugar-sweetened beverages in a beverage-dispensing
machine, such as fountain drinks.

The distributors of sugar-sweetened beverages in San
Francisco would be responsible for paying the tax.

Some beverages would not be subject to the tax, even
if they contain added sugar.These include:

•	Diet sodas;

•	Milk, soy milk, rice milk and almond milk;

•	Beverages that contain only natural fruit and
vegetable juice;

•	Infant formula;

•	Meal replacements, supplemental nutrition
products and weight reduction beverages; and

•	Syrups and powders sold for mixing by individu-
als to make sugar-sweetened beverages.

The San Francisco Unified School District, Department
of Public Health, and Recreation and Park Department
must use the proceeds of this tax to fund health, nutri-
tion, physical education and active recreation pro-
grams. The funds must be used only for new or
expanded programs. Up to 2 percent of the tax pro-
ceeds could be used to administer the funds.

A 15-member Healthy Nutrition and Physical Activity
Access Fund Committee would advise the Mayor, the
Board of Supervisors and City departments about how
to spend the funds.

Because the proceeds from the tax are dedicated to
specific purposes, approval of this measure requires
two-thirds of the votes cast.

A "YES" Vote Means: If you vote "yes," you want the
City to collect a tax of 2 cents per ounce from the dis-
tributors of sugar-sweetened beverages to fund health,
nutrition, physical education and active recreation pro-
grams.

A "NO" Vote Means: If you vote "no," you do not want
the City to collect this tax.

Controller's Statement on "E"

City Controller Ben Rosenfield has issued the follow-
ing statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition E:

Should the proposed ordinance be approved by the
voters, in my opinion, it would have a significant
impact on government costs and revenues.

The ordinance provides for a tax of two cents per fluid
ounce on sugar-sweetened beverages sold in San
Francisco, with the tax revenue dedicated to funding
nutrition and health programs. Depending on con-
sumer and market factors, the tax is estimated to gen-
erate between $35 million and $54 million annually.

Revenue collected through the tax would be dedicated
to health purposes with 40% to the San Francisco
Unified School District for student nutrition services,
25% to the Department of Public Health (DPH) and to
the Public Utilities Commission for health programs
and for public drinking water stations, 25% to the
Recreation and Park Department for recreation pro-
grams and 10% to DPH for community grant programs
in health-related areas. Up to two percent of revenue
may be used for administration and evaluation by the
Treasurer/Tax Collector and other City departments.

This measure requires 66%% affirmative votes to pass.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of this measure. Arguments for and against this measure immediately follow.
The full text begins on page 186. Some of the words used in the ballot digest are explained starting on page 60._

The ordinance specifies that these tax revenues may
not be used to replace funds already budgeted by the
City for the purposes of the ordinance. The Controller's
Office estimates that this baseline expenditure amount
is currently approximately $25.2 million—with approxi-
mately $20.7 million in Recreation and Park programs
and $4.5 million in DPH programs. Like other baseline
programs, the City would be required to continue
these programs going forward and grow them at the
same rate as the City's discretionary revenue grows.

The ordinance would place the tax on the initial distri-
bution of each sugar-sweetened beverage in the City
and details exemptions of various types such as for
infant formula, medical products, and other special-
ized products.

This statement does not address the impact of the
proposed ordinance on the private economy.

How "E" Got on the Ballot

On July 22, 2014, the Board of Supervisors voted 6 to
4 to place Proposition E on the ballot.The Supervisors
voted as follows:

Yes: Campos, Chiu, Cohen, Farrell, Mar, Wiener.

No: Breed, Kim,Tang,Yee.

Excused: Avalos.

This measure requires 662/s% affirmative votes to pass.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of this measure. Arguments for and against this measure immediately follow.
The full text begins on page 186. Some of the words used in the ballot digest are explained starting on page 60.

Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition E

Prop E will provide up to $54 million for physical edu-
cation and nutrition programs in San Francisco public
schools, active recreation programs, food access, oral
health programs, water fountains and water bottle fill-
ing stations citywide.

Prop E creates a small two-penny per ounce tax, paid
by the distributors of soda and sugary beverages—the
largest source of added sugar and calories in the
American diet. Just one sugary beverage a day
increases your risk for developingType II diabetes by
26%. More children suffer from dental decay than any
other chronic disease.

Cigarette taxes significantly reduced smoking; a soda
tax will reduce consumption of sodas and other sug-
ary beverages that are driving the diabetes epidemic.

If we do nothing to address this emerging health cri-
sis, 1 in 3 children today will developType II diabetes
in their lifetime; for children of color the risk is 1 in 2.
Our bodies cannot effectively process sugar in liquid
form, resulting in liver and pancreas damage.

San Francisco's Economic Analyst reports San
Franciscans spend $61 million on health care costs

directly related to consumption of soda and sugary
beverages.

Prop E is a result of advocates from low-income and
communities of color, asking policy leaders to inter-
vene to help decrease consumption of soda and sug-
ary beverages.Their neighborhoods are aggressively
marketed to, and many times, a bottle of soda is
cheaper than a bottle of water at a corner store.

Prop E will reduce soda consumption. Mexico insti-
tuted a soda tax this year and already consumption
dropped 5-7%. San Francisco's City Economist esti-
mates consumption could drop as much as 31%, and
provide up to $54 million in funds for health, nutrition
and active recreation programs.

Yes on Proposition E.

American Heart Association
California Medical Association
California Dental Association
San Francisco Medical Society

Choosehealthsf.com

Rebuttal to Proponent's Argument in Favor of Proposition E

Proposition E contains two ingredients that are
unhealthy for San Francisco:

1)	Higher taxes making The City even less affordable

2)	More government attempts to run our lives

Proponents cite Mexico's soda tax as proof that such
taxes effectively reduce obesity, but that tax is too
new to prove anything besides beverage sales being
down. Where is the proof that obesity rates also
dropped? Obesity rates in the US have risen in recent
years despite consumption of full-calorie sodas declin-
ing.

But let's assume drinking sodas does contribute to
obesity. Targeting people who buy them with tax hikes
is still a poor method of addressing the issue.

High cigarette taxes have resulted in smuggling, tax
evasion, and violence, and jacking up soda taxes will
likewise have adverse consequences that legislators
cannot anticipate.

And it isn't just sodas that Proposition E would tax.
Many juices, ice teas, sport drinks, etc., will bear
higher taxes too.

Tax hike proponents claim Proposition E is fair
because people who use more health care as a result
of drinking unhealthy sodas will pay via the tax.
Actually it would unfairly burden everyone who enjoys
sweet drinks, including many with generally healthy
lifestyles.

A better way to fight obesity is eliminating agricultural
subsidies that incentivize the production of cheap high
fructose corn syrup.

Bottom line: Social engineering efforts by government
won't fix our waistlines. Only making wise choices
about our own diets and lifestyles will do that.

Vote NO on E.

Libertarian Party of San Francisco
www.LPSF.org

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Opponent's Argument Against Proposition E

A soda tax is a simplistic and ineffective solution to a
very real and complex problem. Proponents claim
that a soda tax will result in lower calorie consump-
tion and weight loss, but obesity is a complicated dis-
order which involves many components besides the
intake of sugary drinks. Calories in soda are no more
or less fattening than calories in other food. Studies
show that taxing sodas will not help reduce obesity in
the long run because consumers are able to buy alter-
native sugary drinks or high calories snacks in lieu of
soft drinks. In fact, in one particular study, subjects
substituted 8 calories of milk for 6 calories of sugar
sweetened beverage.

Besides being ineffective in curbing weight, a soda tax
has other unintended consequences. It is regressive
tax—it taxes a larger proportion of income from
poorer people and aims at pleasures they are more
likely to partake in. (Note that the supervisors are not
taxing frappuccinos, which are at least as unhealthy as
sodas). Moreover, a soda tax will hurt small neighbor-
hood stores that rely on soft drinks for much of their
revenue.

This is a "sin tax'.' Politicians like these taxes because
at least in the short run they lead to an increase in rev-
enues which increase the power of the politicians who
can dispense them. Longer term, however, this tax
will lead to even greater increases in expenditures (in
this case for recreation, health, and nutrition) that can-
not be supported by the tax imposed.

It's your body—if you want to eat or drink something
unhealthy, shouldn't it be up to you?

The City Council of Richmond placed a soda tax on the
ballot and 2/3 of the voters rejected it. This proposal
deserves the same fate. Vote NO on Prop E.

Libertarian Party of SF

Rebuttal to Opponent's Argument Against Proposition E

PROP E PROVIDES UP TO $54 MILLION IN
ADDITIONAL FUNDS FOR EXPANDED NUTRITION,
ACTIVE RECREATION

Prop E funds, by law, cannot be used for any other
purpose, or as replacement funds. Community over-
sight and audits ensure funds are spent as required.

Increased consumption of soda and sugary beverages,
and larger servings, are fueling the Type II diabetes
epidemic. Sugary drinks are absorbed differently than
solid food. Doctors and researchers— not the local
Libertarian party—know the evidence.

Sugary drinks in cans and bottles and fountain drinks,
are taxed. Customized beverages made on premises
are excluded; tracking varying ingredient amounts for
every drink would be burdensome. Prop E was
designed to include sugary beverages while minimiz-
ing impact on local businesses.

Not all proposed soda taxes are alike. In other places,
they weren't designed to reduce consumption.

In 2009 President Obama proposed a national soda
tax to help pay for health care; beverage lobbyists
made sure it never saw the light of day.

Big Soda disputes medical research and uses the
same augments Big Tobacco used against cigarette
taxes. But cigarette taxes work, and save lives.

Who do you trust: doctors and researchers, or Big
Soda?

Prop E promotes health and cuts soda consumption
up to 31%. It will reduce sales of soda and sugary bev-
erages, while providing more PE, better school nutri-
tion, increased access to healthy foods and active rec-
reation.

Project Open Hand

Pastor Arelious Walker, True Hope Baptist Church*

San Francisco Medical Society
Mission Economic Development Agency

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

The San Francisco Parks Alliance urges you to vote
YES on Proposition E and support healthy communi-
ties. Sugar-sweetened beverages contribute to an epi-
demic of obesity and diabetes, especially among kids
of color. Did you know that 30 percent of teenagers
currently have pre-diabetes, and that one in three chil-
dren born today are at risk of developing type II diabe-
tes in their lifetime?

To prevent these diseases, we need to reduce sugary
beverage consumption and help kids develop healthy
eating habits. Kids also need physical activity.

A tax of 2 cents per ounce of sugary beverages - just
a quarter for a can of soda - will help fund programs
to ensure that all of our kids have the nutritious food
and the recreation programs they need to thrive.

Out of the estimated $30 million Proposition E would
generate each year, $8 million - or 25 percent - would
go directly to our parks system to pay for expanded
rec center hours and physical activity programs. Low-
income neighborhoods would be prioritized for this
additional funding.

The San Francisco Parks Alliance supports Proposition
E because we know that adding a few pennies to the
cost of a soda will help people make healthier choices
about what they drink.The result will be healthier chil-
dren, families and entire communities.

Vote YES on Proposition E!
www.choosehealthsf.org

San Francisco Parks Alliance

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Parks Alliance.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

As the union representing grocery store workers across
San Francisco, we are fully in support of Prop E.

We care about the health of our members and the
community. Access to healthy foods and safe places to
play isn't equal across our City. Prop E is one tool to
help even things out, with funds for healthier school
lunches, more PE, and recreation programs.

Consumers will have incentives to choose healthier
beverages, and our shelves will always be stocked
with many options— the same choices they have
today. We are proud to be a part of an effort to
improve our community's health.

Grocery store workers say YES on E.

United Food and Commercial Workers Local 648

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: Yes on E, Choose Health SF.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. Hospital Council of Northern and Central
California, 2. California Dental Association, 3. California
Nurses Association PAC.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

The Democratic Party in San Francisco supports pro-
gressive policies that improve public health, and that
is why we support Prop E. Soda and sugary beverages
are the largest source of sugar and calories in our
diets, and they are driving our type ii diabetes epi-
demic, particularly in communities of color. Smoking
and lung cancer deaths have decreased dramatically
because of cigarette taxes, and studies from the most
respected universities in the US show that soda taxes
will save lives. At the same time, Prop E will provide
funds for programs that are improving public health.
Supporting a soda tax is the right choice to improve
public health.

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: SF Democratic Party.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

As pediatricians, our job is to promote and protect the
health of children. We see more and more children and
teens who are overweight and on their way to becom-
ingType II diabetics due to drinking soda regularly.

Most people know that sugary soda isn't good for you,
but many don't know just how bad it is. Our bodies
don't process sugary beverages the same way they do
sugary foods. Regular consumption of soda and
sugary beverages causes damage to our livers and
leads to insulin resistance, increasing the riskforType
II diabetes.

Too many kids are becoming regular soda drinkers,
and teens often don't understand the serious health
impacts. Prop E will help reverse this trend.

Health researchers and doctors at the American
Academy of Pediatrics endorse Prop E.

American Academy of Pediatrics, California

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: YES on E, Choose Health SF.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. Hospital Council of Northern and Central
California, 2. California Dental Association, 3. California
Nurses Association PAC.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

38-EN-N14-CP99	Paid Arguments - Proposition E	99
		
Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E	Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E	

We work every day in our communities to increase
access to healthier food. We know all too well that
low-income households are surrounded by unhealthy
food choices and struggle to afford more nutritious
options.

Ending hunger is about more than making sure
people have enough calories, it about making sure
they have access to nutritious food.

Prop E is expected to decrease consumption of sugary
beverages up to 31 percent and generate revenue up
to $54 million a year, to provide healthy food to low-
income San Franciscans, fund water fountains and
water filling stations, and fund local improvements in
school nutrition, nutritional education and recreational
opportunities.

Vote YES on E.

Ryan Thayer■ Co-coordinator
Tenderloin Healthy Corner Store Coalition

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: YES on E, Choose Health SF.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. Hospital Council of Northern and Central
California, 2. California Dental Association, 3. California
Nurses Association PAC.

Soda and sugary beverages are harming our parishio-
ners and our community.

As faith leaders, when we see something harming our
communities, we are obligated to speak up and take
action. Our communities aren't just plagued by
poverty, lack of opportunity, and guns—they are
plagued by the aggressive marketing tactics of soda
companies who dump their products into our neigh-
borhoods, making them cheap and available on every
corner.

Studies show that regular consumption of sugary soda
and beverages is very harmful- more harmful than
eating sugary foods.

We are concerned about our families and friends who
are suffering from type II diabetes and heart disease.
We need both education AND incentives for healthier
choices to make a difference. Vote YES on E.

Providence Baptist Church
Arelius Walker■ Pastor
True Hope Baptist Church

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: YES on E, Choose Health SF.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. Hospital Council of Northern + Central Calif.,

2. Calif. Dental Association, 3. Calif. Nurses Association PAC.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Latinos have the highest obesity rate in San Francisco
and this soda tax would go a long way to help combat
that. Further, as an economic justice organization that
helps Latinos reduce debt, increase savings, increase
income and build credit, we recognize that this tax
could potentially cost our families a few cents more.
However, the savings in reduced medical costs and
increased life expectancy greatly outweigh that cost.
Further, this measure would create a welcome source
of funds to help combat obesity in low-income com-
munities like the Mission.

Mission Economic Development Agency
Mission Neighborhood Health Center

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: YES on E, Choose Health SF.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. Hospital Council of Northern & Central Calif.,

2. Calif. Dental Assoc., 3. Calif. Nurses Association PAC.

Paid Argument IN FAVOR of Proposition E

The San Francisco Parent Teacher Association supports
Prop E because the health of our children is of the
utmost importance.

Funds from Prop E will expand physical education and
nutritious foods at our public schools, as well as
provide much needed funds for after-school programs.

We recognize that soda and sugary beverages are
empty calories, and we are concerned about the dis-
proportionate impact they are having in theType II dia-
betes epidemic.

Prop E is sensible public health policy that is backed
by years of research. We urge you to vote YES.

San Francisco PTA

San Francisco Parent Political Action Committee

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: YES on E, Choose Health SF.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. Hospital Council of Northern + Central Calif.,

2. California Dental Assoc., 3. California Nurses Association
PAC.

End of Paid Arguments IN FAVOR of Proposition E

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

VOTE NO ON E BECAUSE ITWILL DRIVE UP GROCERY
PRICES AND MAKE SAN FRANCISCO AN EVEN MORE
EXPENSIVE PLACE TO LIVE AND WORK.

This is not just a soda tax; it's a tax on juice drinks, ice
teas, powdered drinks, fruit juices, sports drinks, and
more. It's a tax that could force grocers to spread
added costs across all grocery items—not just bever-
ages.

This law would:

increase the price of some beverages by up to 75%;
raise the price of a soda by 320 and a 12-pack by
almost $3.00;

interfere with our ability to make responsible deci-
sions for our own families;

create a new tax that hurts most those who can least
afford it;

add another tax to San Francisco's long list of sales,
property, school district, and city taxes.

The Board of Supervisors spent a lot of time and
resources to place this tax on the ballot—some would
argue too much.This tax is a distraction from the
issues that really matter—issues like public safety,
homelessness, education, housing, and the city's
general lack of affordability.

Some claim a tax on beverages will provide additional
new funds for nutrition and recreational programs, but
Prop. E may not provide any new benefits.

Remember how the lottery was supposed to benefit
education? Don't let history repeat itself with Prop. E.

The cost of living in San Francisco is high enough.
Instead of pushing for taxes on the ballot that target
those who can least afford it, city officials should be
working to make San Francisco a less expensive place
to raise a family.

Enough is enough: Vote NO on E to send a message
that we're tired of paying for the wrong priorities.

No on E: Stop Unfair Beverage Taxes, Coalition for an
Affordable City

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair Beverage Taxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Prop E Covers More Than Just Soda

Proponents of the so-called "soda tax" want you to
think it only covers soda and you won't have to pay it
you don't drink soda. Nothing could be further from
the truth.This tax covers hundreds of beverages,
including many you would not necessarily think are
unhealthy. This tax will increase the cost of groceries
for all of us! We can't afford that right now in San
Francisco.

Even proponents of the "soda tax" concede that it is
regressive; meaning the tax will disproportionately hurt
low-income families. Households that now, more than
ever, rely upon shrinking incomes to feed their families,
pay their bills and make their rent payments each
month will bear a disproportionate burden of this tax.

We support generating revenue equitably, and oppose
unfair taxes that further compromise the bottom line
for the most vulnerable in our city and make it harder
for low and fixed income residents to live day-to-day.

A no vote on Prop E will send a message to City Hall
that we need to focus on more important issues.

Calvin Louie, President of Chinese American
Democratic Club

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair Beverage Taxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Say Yes to Local Business, Vote NO on Prop E

Small business owners from all neighborhoods across
the City oppose Prop E - the unfair beverage tax. City
Government should be focusing on issues more
important to residents.The biggest concern we face
right now is the widening affordability gap and
increasing cost of living.This tax will drive up the cost
of living for all of us.

The tax sets a dangerous precedent and creates a slip-
pery slope to justify future taxes on other groceries
that could be viewed as unhealthy. Where will it stop?

The programming this ballot measure is supposed to
fund may be worthy, but funding of these programs is
dependent upon the exact behavior that the tax
attempts to curb. Please join with your local mer-
chants and vote NO on Prop E.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Henry Karnilowicz, President of the San Francisco
Council of District Merchants

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair Beverage Taxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Prop E is the Wrong Priority

San Francisco is known for innovation and new ideas
and I am proud to have started my business here and
be part of the community.

This tax is an overly simple solution to a very complex
problem. Unfortunately, small business owners and
residents are the ones who get stuck in the crosshairs
and are going to have to pay at the end of the day.
Prop E will have limited to no effect on curbing diabe-
tes or other diseases - you can't tax your way to a
healthy community.

The cost of living in San Francisco is going through
the roof and new food and beverage taxes should not
be on the table right now. Prop E doesn't address the
major issues facing our City. We have a growing
affordability gap, challenges with public transporta-
tion, keeping our streets and parks clean, and home-
lessness. Prop E is the wrong priority for San
Francisco. We need innovative ideas to combat these
problems and we cannot afford a new tax that will
hurt those who can least afford it.

If we start taxing beverages, what could be next?
Although well intentioned, this poorly designed tax
will increase the cost of your grocery bill, whether or
not you drink soda, and will make it harder to live and
work here.

Vote No on Proposition E

Taylor Peck, Co-owner of Taylor's Tonics and the Fizzary

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair Beverage Taxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Prop E is Bad for Local Merchants

While I agree with the health objectives of the bever-
age tax proposal to help prevent diabetes and obesity,
this tax will ultimately hurt San Francisco's small busi-

ness community and not do much to make people
healthy. I urge you to vote NO on Proposition E.

The tax is structured in a way that added costs would
be passed down to food and beverage retailers -
placing an incredible burden on restaurants, cafes, piz-
zerias, corner stores and other local businesses. Small
businesses will have no choice but to pass along the
increased cost to their consumers, and in turn, raise
prices on everybody.Things are already expensive in
San Francisco.

Let's support our small business community and
oppose this ineffective tax that will negatively impact
their viability. It's already difficult for many small busi-
nesses to compete with big chains.That is why I urge
you to vote NO on Proposition E.

Amy Morris, President of Mission Merchants
Association

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair Beverage Taxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

We already pay high taxes - Vote NO on Prop E

In San Francisco we pay some of the highest taxes in
the nation. I don't mind supporting quality city servic-
es. I believe in making sure we have the resources to
provide a quality public education, efficient public
transportation, and health care to those that can't
afford it. I don't mind paying taxes that benefit our
community, but Prop E only hurts our community. It is
the wrong priority for our City.

I am opposed to Prop E because it is an unfair tax, and
won't achieve its stated goals.

How could anybody support increasing the cost of
groceries at a time when the price of everything is
going through the roof and so many families can't
afford to live here anymore?

Please join with thousands of San Franciscans from
across the City opposed to Prop E and vote NO!

Michael Meadows

Owner■ La Movida Wine Bar & Community Kitchen

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair Beverage Taxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

E

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Homeowners Against Prop E - An Unnecessary
Distraction

Prop E only distracts San Francisco from the real
issues we should be working to solve. Day by day, the
affordability gap widens, creating a difficult environ-
ment for working class families to survive in. We
should be focused on improving the quality of life for
all San Franciscans and not increasing taxes on gro-
ceries.

When it comes to food and beverage choices and the
choices we make for our families, we don't need City
Hall telling us what to do. It should be up to parents to
make responsible choices for their children. A new
beverage tax is not a substitute for parental responsi-
bility.

The beverage tax will impact everyone's pocketbook,
regardless of whether you drink soda or not. In this
time of economic boom for some, we can't forget that
families are struggling to stay in this City. We
shouldn't contribute to making it worse by passing
Prop E.

Join us and vote no on Proposition E.

Homeowners Against Unfair BeverageTaxes

Keith Roy
Yukiko Meadows
Jo Ann Shain
Henry Shain

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair BeverageTaxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Vote No on Prop E: Unfair Tax for Tenants

Prop E will hurt working families and tenants by
increasing grocery prices for everyone. This tax
doesn't consider that there are food deserts in some
neighborhoods where low-income families and
tenants don't have access to healthy food options.

Prop E punishes the people that supporters claim it
will help. We need to address the growing affordability
gap and lack of affordable housing, not increase
grocery prices.

We appreciate the intention to curb obesity, but Prop E
is misguided, condescending and deeply flawed. San

Francisco is lacking leadership and a commitment to
common sense policy in the affordability crisis. We do
not want a tax that will hurt our neighbors, our local
small businesses, and us!

Tenants Against Unfair BeverageTaxes

SpencerYoung
Mathew Herrick
Elisa Benedicto

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair BeverageTaxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

San Francisco is Already Too Expensive - Vote No on E

Everyday, San Francisco loses low-income and minori-
ty families who can no longer afford to live here. That
is why we want you to vote NO on Prop E.

While Prop E is being championed as an attack on the
soda industry, the fact is the tax is an attack on low-
income families. This tax covers hundreds of beverag-
es including juice drinks, sports drinks and teas, but
Prop E makes exemptions for certain beverages that
have just as much sugar. It doesn't make any sense
that some sugar-sweetened beverages are taxed while
others are left untaxed.

The issue of health is much more complex than a bev-
erage tax. Good health is a product of a balanced diet
and an active lifestyle. Taking money out of the
pockets of working families won't make anybody any

healthier. Eating healthy requires access to healthy
foods.This tax does nothing to address that need.

While we applaud the cause of community health,
we've joined together to demand more equitable solu-
tions that don't hurt San Francisco businesses and
low-income families.

Don't make everyday San Franciscans pay for this
political statement. Vote no on Prop E.

Filipino Americans Against Prop E

Eugene Aquiler
Iris Elham

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair BeverageTaxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Prop E is Wrong for Seniors & Wrong for San Francisco

We urge you to vote NO on Proposition E because
seniors need your support against an unfair beverage
tax. Seniors who live on a fixed income do not have
the financial resources to pay more for groceries.
Affordability is central to our senior community and
right now housing and food costs are increasing out
of control. Prop E makes it worse. We believe that the
beverage tax is regressive and one that will seriously
impact the viability of the senior residents of this City.

We are long time contributing members of San
Francisco - we are educators, veterans, immigrants
and we need your support so that we are not pushed
out of the City.

We believe there are other ways to encourage positive
health outcomes, but a tax that disproportionately
affects low-income residents and seniors is not the
solution. Vote NO on Proposition E and protect the
future of seniors in San Francisco.

Seniors Against the BeverageTax

Gerarda Darming
Luz De Guzman

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair BeverageTaxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Working Families Oppose Prop E

Prop E is bad for working families. The San Francisco
City Controller's report on this proposition estimated
that hundreds of jobs could be lost in San Francisco if
Prop E passes. The jobs that will disappear are held by
hard working San Franciscans in production, distribu-
tion, delivery and retail. These jobs are good middle
class jobs that provide a living wage, medical and
retirement benefits. We can't afford the loss of good
jobs for hard working people.

We believe this is a regressive tax that will dispropor-
tionately affect middle-income families. Check the
facts. Prop E will harm those that can least afford it
and cost jobs.

Join the Teamsters and other members of organized
labor and vote NO on E!

Michael Vincent, Member ofTeamsters Joint Council 7*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair BeverageTaxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Prop E Hurts

San Francisco should provide new health and recre-
ation programs for our most vulnerable residents to
help prevent obesity and diabetes, but those same
residents shouldn't be on the hook for the cost of
those programs. During a time of ever-rising costs, the
last thing we need is an increase in the price of our
groceries. Intentions may be good, but the unintended
consequences of the beverage tax are going to cost
low-income families at a time when the City can least
afford it.

Last year, the San Francisco Human Services Agency
released a report that shows San Francisco's income
inequality gap is greater than that of New York,
Washington D.C. and Los Angeles. The wealthy are
making nearly twenty-times more than low-income
earners in the city.The 2010 census showed over
70,000 residents are struggling to live on less than
$25,000 per year, while 40,000 residents are earning
more than $200,000 per year.That's an income gap
that mirrors Rwanda. With an $8.9 billion city budget,
certainly there are more equitable ways we can gener-
ate funds for these programs.

Vote NO on Prop E and save families from a burden-
some tax.

Reverend Arnold Townsend

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair BeverageTaxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Regressive Taxes don't belong in a Progressive City

An unfair flat tax on beverages doesn't make us
healthier. It just takes money out of the pockets of the
poorest in our community. Prop E is an unfair tax that
will increase the cost of hundreds of beverages and it

will be passed along to consumers in the form of
increased food and beverages prices. We need to
stand together and defeat Prop E.

ESJ

Prop E places a new burden on people who have been
marginalized in San Francisco, the same people pro-
ponents of this measure say they are trying to help.
This will make it more difficult for LGBT youth from
around the country to call San Francisco home as the
costs of living increase.

This measure exempts products that the most fortu-
nate can afford like 100% fruit juice, but the tax could
increase the price of some beverages, like lower-cost
sports and juice drinks, by as much as 75%. That is
just unfair, plain and simple.

We need services that help people, not condescending
and burdensome taxes. It's time we go back to the
drawing board and come up with real solutions for
community health. You won't make anyone healthier
by making him or her poorer.

Prop E is a regressive tax. Vote NO!

Kevin Bard, Former Board Member of the Harvey Milk
LGBT Democratic Club*

*For identification purposes only; author is signing as
an individual and not on behalf of an organization.

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair Beverage Taxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

Prop E Doesn't Consider Impacts on Our Local
Businesses - Vote NO!

Proposition E does nothing but place a new burden on
Latino owned small and family operated businesses.
Prop E increases costs associated with selling sugar-
sweetened beverages.This would hurt the ability for
corner markets to thrive in an already competitive
environment, especially against large chain stores
that, unlike ours, will be able to absorb this cost
increase. Vote NO on E!

Only six members of the Board of Supervisors voted
to place this on the ballot in a split decision. The city
is divided on this issue. I urge you to stand with your
local corner and grocery store owners by voting NO
on E!

Support an affordable San Francisco and protect San
Francisco's vibrant small business community by
voting NO on E!

San Francisco Hispanic Chambers of Commerce

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: No on E: Stop Unfair Beverage Taxes, Coalition
for an Affordable City.

The sole contributor to the true source recipient committee:
American Beverage Association California PAC.

Paid Argument AGAINST Proposition E

The soda tax would do nothing to financially discour-
age the consumption of sugary beverages.The tax
wouldn't be advertised on store shelves nor itemized
on receipts, so most shoppers wouldn't even know
about the tax discreetly figured into the price of their
drinks. Well-informed consumers would simply buy
their soda outside of San Francisco, thereby decreas-
ing sales-tax revenue for the city.

Furthermore, this type of nanny-state regulation is not
the job of our Board of Supervisors. Instead of tackling
real problems, some supervisors choose to microman-
age our lives. What's next? Will they send a city
employee into our homes to ensure that we're eating
our vegetables?

Vote no on Proposition E.

San Francisco Republican Party
Harmeet Dhillon, Chair

Charles Cagnon, Mathew Del Carlo, John Dennis,
Howard Epstein, Alisa Farenzena, Terence Faulkner,
Barry Graynor, Christine Hughes, Joan Leone, Rodney
Leong, David Salaverry, Dana Walsh, Rich Worner;
Gabriella Bartonico, Christopher L. Bowman, Daniel
Higa, Stephanie Jeong

The true source(s) of funds for the printing fee of this
argument: San Francisco Republican Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient
committee: 1. Charles M. Munger, 2. Christine Hughes,

3. Dhillon Smith.

Arguments are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.
Arguments are printed as submitted. Spelling and grammatical errors have not been corrected.



years of service and employer retiree health care contribution amounts
for employees hired on or after January 10, 2009. Nothing in thtsthat
Charter amendment shall expand or contract the groups of employees
eligible for retiree health care benefits beyondr those groups eligible as
of June 3, 2008.

SEC. A8.432. RETIREE HEALTH CARE TRUST FUND.

There is hereby created a Retiree Health Care Trust Fund
(RHCTF) for the purpose described in Section 12.204. Subject to the
disbursement limitations set forth in Section A8.432(d) below, the
Retiree Health Care Trust Fund Board (Board) shall have exclusive
authority and control over the administration of the RHCTF,
investments of trust assets, and disbursements from the trust in
accordance with the provisions of this Charter.

* * * *

(f)	Definitions

“Actuarial Accrued Liability” as used in this section, means
“Actuarial Accrued Liability” as that term is defined under GASB No.
45 as may be amended from time to time.

“Commenced Employment on” as used in this section, shall
refer to the time an employee starts employment with the City and
County, or with a Participating Employer, for the first time, or the time
an employee starts employment with the City and County, or with a
Participating Employer, on a subsequent occasion after a prior
separation from employment with the City and County or any
Participating Employer, whichever date is later. For purposes of this
Section A8.432. an employee of the City and Countv who was employed
bv the former Redevelopment Agency of the City and County of San
Francisco (the “Redevelopment Agency”) or the Successor Agency to
the Redevelopment Agency of the City and County of San Francisco
(the “Successor Agency”), and started working for the City and County
be fore March 1. 2015 without a break in service shall be deemed to
have commenced employment with the City and County on the date the
employee commenced employment with the Redevelopment Agency or
the Successor Agency except that any such former employee o f the
Redevelopment Agency or the Successor Agency who subsequently
separates from employment with the City and County and returns as an
employee o f the City and County or a Participating Employer at a later
date (the ‘Return Date”) shall be deemed to have commenced
employment on the Return Date.

“Employer” and “Employers” as used in this section means the
City and County and the Participating Employers.

“Fully Funded” as used in this section means that an
Employer’s GASB Actuary has determined that the market value of
assets in a sub-trust equals or exceeds the Employer’s Actuarial
Accrued Liability.

“GASB Actuary” and “GASB Actuaries” as used in this
section means the actuarial firms hired by the Employers to provide
estimates of each Employers’ respective total liability and annual
required contribution for post retirement health benefits under GASB
No. 45.

“GASB No. 45” as used in this section means Statement No. 45
of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, Accounting and
Financial Reporting by Employers for Postemployment Benefits Other
Than Pensions as may be amended from time to time.

“Health coverage” as used in this section, means the health
benefits or health insurance provided by the health service system for
retirees, survivors and dependents under Section A8.428.

“Normal Cost” as used in this section, means each Employer’s
normal cost under GASB No. 45 as determined by each Employer’s
GASB Actuary.

“Retiree” as used in this section, means a former employee who
is retired and is entitled to health coverage under Section A8.428, and
the qualified survivors or dependents of such retirees who are entitled
to health coverage under Section A8.428.

“Participating Employers” as used in this section and Sections
A8.432-1, A8.510 and 12.204, shall include the Superior Court of
California, County of San Francisco, San Francisco Unified School

District and the San Francisco Community College District, following a
resolution by their respective governing boards to participate in the
Retiree Health Care Trust Fund.

* * * *

Proposition E

Ordinance amending the Business and Tax Regulations Code by
adding a new Article 8, imposing a tax of two cents per ounce on the
distribution of sugar-sweetened beverages, to fund City-operated
programs and City grants for active recreation and improving food
access, health, and nutrition, and to fund San Francisco Unified
School District physical education, after school physical activity,
health, or nutrition programs, and school lunch and other school
nutrition programs.

NOTE: Unchanged Code text and uncodified text are in plain
font.

Additions to Codes are in single-underline italics Times
New Roman font.

Deletions to Codes are in strikethrough italics Times
New Roman font.

Asterisks (* * * *) indicate the omission of unchanged
Code subsections or parts of tables.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San
Francisco:

Section 1. Pursuant to Article XIIIC of the Constitution of the
State of California, this ordinance shall be submitted to the qualified
electors of the City and County of San Francisco, at the November 4,
2014 consolidated general election.

Section 2. The Business and Tax Regulations Code is hereby
amended by adding Article 8, to read as follows:

ARTICLE 8:

THE SUGAR-SWEETENED BEVERAGE TAX ORDINANCE

SEC 550. SHORT TITLE.

This Article shall be known as the uSugar-Sweetened Beverage
Tax Ordinance. ”

SEC. 551. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

Human consumption of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages fSSBs) is
linked to a myriad of serious health problems including. but not limited
to: weight gain. obesity, coronary heart disease. diabetes. cavities,
tooth decay: and other health problems. Scientific evidence shows that
underlying these chronic health problems is metabolic syndrome (MetS).
MetS is characterized by changes in a body s normal biochemistry
that can lead to obesity, insulin resistance. hypertension. dyslipidemia
(high cholesterol'). and visceral fat. SSBs are linked to excess weight
and obesity, which are putting more Americans on the path to MetS.
Heavy added sugar consumption may itself be a direct cause of MetS
bv increasing the risk for hypertension. dyslipidemia and visceral fat.
While most people with MetS are obese. normal-weight individuals
can acquire the syndrome as well given poor dietary habits. Heavy
consumption of sugary drinks has been linked to MetS through a variety
of biological pathways. and is therefore a risk factor in chronic disease.

The 2010 U.S. Dietary Guidelines for Americans report that
sugary drinks are the single greatest source of added sugar in the
American diet. constituting 36.6 percent of added sugars typically
consumed, making them an ideal target for public health protections.
Sugar-sweetened soda. and fruit drinks containing less than 100 percent
juice by volume. are major sources of added sugars in American diets.
contributing an average of 10.58 teaspoons of added sugars each
day. The American Heart Association recommends that adult women
consume no more than six teaspoons of added sugars daily that adult

EU

men consume no more than nine teaspoons. and that children consume
no more than three teaspoons of added sugars (not including naturally
occurring sugars in wholefoods such as fruit and plain milk) per day,
which is about 50 calories. However,: most Americans consume more
than 19.6 teaspoons of added sugars per day. Even regular, moderate
consumption of sugary drinks (one 12-ounce can a day) increases the
risk of cardiovascular disease mortality by nearly one third.

Obese children suffer more often from sleep apnea, asthma, joint
problems. fatty liver disease. gallstones. and acid reflux (heartburn).
Obese children are more likely to become obese adults. further
increasing their risks for higher rates of type 2 diabetes, heart disease.
and some cancers later in life. Pro found mental health and quality of
life impacts are seen in children with severe obesity. As of 2010. nearly
one-third (31.7 percent) of children and adolescents in San Francisco
were either obese or overweight. Among adults. consumption of SSBs
is associated with a risk of weight gain and obesity, cardiovascular
disease, a significantly higher risk of stroke. high blood pressure, type
2 diabetes. dental erosion. and the risk of pancreatic cancer In 2011-
2012. 41.8 percent of adults in San Francisco were either obese or
overweight.

Low-income families are more likely to be affected bv obesity
and diabetes. For example. the Bavview-Hunters Point neighborhood
had more per capita emergency room visits due to diabetes between
2009 and 2011 than any other neighborhood in San Francisco. Eighteen
percent of three- to four-year-olds enrolled in San Francisco Head Start
were obese, with an additional 13 percent being overweight. HeadStart
serves children of low-income families.

According to the American Dental Association, a steady diet
of sugary foods and drinks, including juice and sports drinks, can
damage teeth. Cavity-causing bacteria in the mouth feed on sugar and
produce acids that attack tooth enamel for up to 20 minutes after eating
or drinking. Sipping sugary beverages or eating sugary foods all day
results in repeated acid attacks that weaken tooth enamel and lead
to cavities. In extreme cases, softer enamel combined with improper
brushing. grinding of the teeth or other conditions can lead to tooth
loss.

The annual cost of being overweight and obese to California
families. employers. the health care industry, and the government is
estimated to be $21 billion. The San Francisco Budget and Legislative
Analyst estimates that up to $61.8 million in costs incurred by San
Franciscans with obesity and diabetes are attributable to sugary
beverage consumption. The total national cost of diabetes in 2007 was
$174 billion.

Research shows that lifestyle interventions are more cost-effective
than medications in preventing or delaying type 2 diabetes. SSBs have
been targeted as part of a tax policy to reduce caloric intake. improve
diet and health. and generate revenue that governments can use to
address obesitv-related health and economic burdens. The Institute of
Medicine and other beverage tax advocates suggest that tax revenues
could be used to promote healthier eating and reduce or prevent obesity.
In 2009. the Institute of Medicine recommended that local governments
implement a tax strategy for calorie-dense, nutrient-poor food and
beverages to discourage consumption. Likewise. in 2010, the White
House Task Force on Childhood Obesity recommended that federal
state, and local governments analyze the effects of taxes on less healthy,
energy-dense foods, such as SSBs.

The purpose of taxing SSBs is to make San Franciscans healthier
bv discouraging consumption of the main source of added dietary
sugars, and by raising funds to support health promotion and obesity
prevention, particularly targeting children in San Francisco s low-
income communities. Plain water and—unless advised otherwise by
a pediatrician—low-fat (one percent) or nonfat milk are the most
appropriate beverages for healthy children older than the age of two.

Yet. 17.2 percent of San Francisco children and adolescents consume
two or more glasses of soda or sugary drink per day. Within this,
there are significant variations by ethnicity, with 24.2 percent of Asian
and 33.9 percent of Latino, and only 4.4 percent of white children,
consuming two or more glasses of soda or sugary drink per day. On

average, children consumed 11.96 teaspoons of added sugars from
sodas and fruit drinks per day — 47 percent of their total intake of added
sugars. A single 12-ounce can of soda contains eight to ten teaspoons of
sugar, and typical container sizes o f popular sugary drinks marketed to
children far exceed recommended amounts.

Assessing a tax on SSBs is intended to help address the high
levels of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and other diseases bv reducing
consumption and providing a revenue stream for City-directed and
grant-funded physical activity and nutrition programs in schools, parks,
community centers, and through communitv-based organizations.

SEC. 552. DEFINITIONS.

Unless otherwise defined in this Article 8. terms that are defined
in Article 6 of the Business and Tax Regulations Code shall have the
meanings provided therein.

“Active Recreation Programs ” are programs where participants
are able to engage in exercise or physical activity.

“Base Amount” means the Controller’s calculation of the amount
of the City expenditures for Eligible Programs for the Baseline Year, as
described in Section 55 7.

“Base Product” means the same as Powder.

“Baseline” means the fiscal year July 1. 2014 through June 30.
2015, described in Section 557.

“Beverage Dispensing Machine ” means an automated device
that mixes Concentrate with one or more other ingredients and
dispenses the resulting mixture into an open container as a readv-to-
drink beverage.

“Caloric Substance ” means a substance that adds calories to the
diet of a person who consumes that substance.

“Caloric Sweetener” means anv Caloric Substance suitable for
human consumption that humans perceive as sweet and includes, but is
not limited to. sucrose, fructose, high fructose corn sweetener, glucose,
and other sugars.

“City” means the City and Countv of San Francisco.

“Committee ” means the Healthy Nutrition and Physical Activity
Access Fund Committee described in Section 558.

“Concentrate ” means a Svrup. Powder, or Base Product that is
used for mixing, compounding, or making Sugar-Sweetened Beverages
in a Beverage Dispensing Machine. Notwithstanding the foregoing
sentence. “Concentrate” does not include the following:

fa)	Anv product that is designed to be used primarily to
prepare coffee or tea.

(b)	Anv product that is sold and is intended to be used for
the purpose of an individual consumer mixing, compounding, or making
a Sugar-Sweetened Beverage.

fc)	Anv product sold for consumption bv infants, which
is commonly referred to as “infant formula. ” or any product whose
purpose is infant re hydration.

fd)	Medical Food.

fe)	Anv product designed as supplemental, meal
replacement, or sole-source nutrition that includes proteins,
carbohydrates, and multiple vitamins and minerals.

“Distribution” includes:

fa)	The trans fer in the City for consideration of physical
possession of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages or Concentrate bv anv
person other than a common carrier. “Distribution” also includes the
transfer o f physical possession in the City bv anv person other than a
common carrier without consideration for promotional or anv other
commercial purpose.

fb)	The possession, storage, ownership, or control in the
Citv. bv anv person other than a common carrier, of Sugar-Sweetened
Beverages or Concentrate for resale in the ordinary course of business,
obtained bv means of a transfer ofphysical possession outside the Citv
or from a common carrier in the Citv.

fc)	“Distribution ” does not include the return of anv
Sugar-Sweetened Beverages or Concentrate to a person, if that person
re funds the entire amount paid in cash or credit. “Distribution ” does
not include a retail sale or use.

“Distributor ” means anv person engaged in the business
of Distribution of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages or Concentrate. A
“Distributor” does not include a common carrier Where a common
carrier obtains physical possession of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages or
Concentrate outside the City and transfers physical possession of the
Sugar-Sweetened Beverages or Concentrate in the City, the trans feree
of the Sugar-Sweetened Beverages or Concentrate is a Distributor

“Eligible Programs ” means City-operated programs and City
grants for active recreation and/or improving food access. health.
and nutrition. and San Francisco Unified School District physical
education. after school physical activity, health. or nutrition programs,
school lunch. and other school nutrition programs. Eligible Programs
shall include only programs described in Section 557(a)(3)(A) through
(D) of this Article 8.

“Fund” is the Active Recreation. Nutrition. and Public Health
Fund described in Section 553.

“Medical Food” means medical food as defined in Section
109971 of the California Health and Safety Code. including
amendments to that Section.

“Milk” means natural liquid milk natural milk concentrate
(whether or not reconstituted) or dehydrated natural milk (whether or
not reconstituted), regardless of animal source or butterfat content. For
purposes of this definition. “Milk” includes flavored milk containing no
more than 40 grams of total sugar (naturally-occurring and from added
Caloric Sweetener) per 12 ounces.

“Natural Fruit Juice” means the original liquid resulting
from the pressing of fruit, the liquid resulting from the complete
reconstitution of natural fruit juice concentrate. or the liquid resulting
from the complete restoration of water to dehydrated natural fruit juice.

“Natural Vegetable Juice ” means the original liquid resulting
from the pressing of vegetables. the liquid resulting from the complete
reconstitution of natural vegetable juice concentrate. or the liquid
resulting from the complete restoration of water to dehydrated natural
vegetable iuice.

“New Programs ” means the New Programs as described in
Section 557.

“Nonalcoholic Beverage” means anv beverage that is not subject
to tax under Part 14 (commencing with Section 32001) of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

“Powder” means a solid or liquid mixture of ingredients with
added Caloric Sweetener used in making. mixing. or compounding
Sugar-Sweetened Beverages bv mixing the Powder with anv one
or more other ingredients, including, without limitation, water ice.
Svrup. Simple Syrup, fruits, vegetables, fruit iuice. vegetable iuice. or
carbonation or other gas.

“Simple Syrup” means a mixture of sugar and water.

“Sugar-Sweetened Beverage ” means anv Nonalcoholic Beverage
sold for human consumption that has one or more added Caloric
Sweeteners and contains more than 25 calories per 12 ounces of
beverage. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence. “Sugar-Sweetened
Beverage ” does not include anv of the following:

fa)	Milk.

fb)	Milk alternatives. including but not limited to non-
dairy creamers or beverages primarily consisting o f plant-based
ingredients fe.g.. soy, rice, or almond milk products), regardless o f
sugar content.

fc)	Anv beverage that contains solely 100 percent Natural
Fruit Juice. Natural Vegetable Juice, or combined Natural Fruit Juice
and Natural Vegetable Juice.

fd)	Anv product sold for consumption bv infants. which
is commonly re ferred to as “infant formula. ” or anv product whose
purpose is infant rehvdration.

fe)	Medical Food.

(f) Any product designed as supplemental, meal
replacement, or sole-source nutrition that includes proteins,
carbohydrates. and multiple vitamins and minerals.

(g)	Anv product sold in liquid form designed for use as
an oral nutritional therapy for persons who may have a limited ability
to absorb or metabolize dietary nutrients from traditional food or
beverages.

(h)	Anv product sold in liquid form designed for use for
weight reduction.

“Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Tax ” is the Tax imposed under
Section 553.

“Svrup ” means the liquid mixture of ingredients used in making,
mixing, or compounding Sugar-Sweetened Beverages using one or more
ingredients. including, without limitation, water, ice, a Base Product.
Powder. Simple Svrup. fruits, vegetables, fruit iuice. vegetable iuice. or
carbonation or other gas.

“Tax ” is the Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Tax.

SEC 553. IMPOSITION OF TAX: DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS.

fa)	For the privilege of enzazinz in the business of making
initial Distributions of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages or Concentrate
in the Citv. the City imposes a Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Tax on
the Distributor making the initial Distribution of Sugar-Sweetened
Beverages or Concentrate in the City.

fb)	The Tax shall be calculated as follows:

fl) Two cents f$0.02) per fluid ounce of Sugar-Sweetened
Beverage upon the initial Distribution of the Sugar-Sweetened Beverage
in the City: and

f2) Two cents f$0.02) per fluid ounce of Sugar-Sweetened
Beverage that could be produced from Concentrate upon the initial
Distribution of Concentrate in the City. For purposes of calculating
the Tax for Concentrate, the Tax shall be calculated using the largest
volume of Sugar-Sweetened Beverage that could result from the use of
the Concentrate according to anv manufacturer s instructions. If the Tax
is paid with respect to the Distribution of Concentrate in the Citv. then
no Tax shall be due with respect to the Distribution in the Citv of anv
Sugar-Sweetened Beverage produced from such Concentrate.

fc)	All monies collected pursuant to the Tax shall be deposited
to the credit of the Active Recreation. Nutrition, and Public Health
Fund. The Fund shall be maintained separate and apart from all
other City funds and shall be appropriated bv annual or supplemental
appropriation.

SEC 554. REGISTRATION OF DISTRIBUTORS:
DOCUMENTATION: ADMINISTRATION.

fa)	Each Distributor shall register with the Tax Collector.

fb)	Each Distributor shall keep and preserve all such records
as the Tax Collector may require for the purpose of ascertaining and
determining compliance under this Article 8.

fc)	Except as otherwise provided under this Article 8. the
Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Tax shall be administered pursuant to
Article 6 of the Business and Tax Regulations Code.

SEC 555. CREDITS AND REFUNDS.

The Tax Collector shall re fund or credit to a Distributor the
Tax that is paid with respect to the initial Distribution in the Citv of a
Sugar-Sweetened Beverage or Concentrate that is shipped to a point
outside the Citv for Distribution outside the Citv. or on which the Tax
has already been paid bv another person, or which has been returned to
the person who sold it and the entire purchase price has been re funded
in cash or credit.

SEC 556. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE TAX COLLECTOR.

fa)	The Department of Public Health shall provide to the Tax
Collector technical assistance to identify Suzar-Sweetened Beverages
or Concentrate subject to the Tax.

fb)	All Citv Departments shall provide to the Tax Collector
technical assistance to identify Distributors of Sugar-Sweetened
Beverages or Concentrate.

SEC 557. EXPENDITURE OF PROCEEDS.

(a)	Monies in the Fund shall be used exclusively for the
purposes specified in this Article 8. No monies from the Fund shall
be appropriated or expended for any funding requirement imposed by
The Arts, Music. Sports. and Pre-School for Every Child Amendment
of2003 (Charter Sec. 16.123-1 et seq.) or any successor legislation.
Subject to the budgetary and fiscal provisions of the City Charter,
monies in the Fund shall be appropriated on an annual basis to the
following departments and used solely for the following purposes:

(1)	Administrative Costs. Up to two percent of the
proceeds of the Tax. in any proportion, to the Tax Collector and
other City Departments for administration of the Tax, and to the
City Administrator for administration of the Committee, and for
the Committee’s evaluation ofprograms funded bv the Tax. and
development of strategic and expenditure plans.

(2)	Refunds of any overpayments of the Tax imposed
under this Article 8.

(3)	Funding of Eligible Programs that are “New
Programs. ” as defined in this Section 557. that are consistent with the
findings, purpose, and goals stated in this Article 8. in the following
proportions:

(A)	40percent to the San Francisco Unified School
District for (i) student nutrition services: school-based gardens,
nutrition classes, and cooking classes for students and parents: teacher
training and curricular support in nutrition education: and after-
school programs, including but not limited to nutrition education,
healthy snacks, school-based gardening, and cooking classes: and (ii)
expansion and improvement o f physical education, which may include
teachers, education specialists, athletic equipment, training, and
programming, provided that programs under both subsections (i) and
(ii) are each appropriated no less than one-quarter of this 40 percent:
and

(B)	25 percent, in any proportion, to the Department
of Public Health and the Public Utilities Commission for (i) healthy
food access initiatives: (ii) drinking fountains and water bottle filling
stations: (iii) oral health services: (iv) chronic disease prevention: and
(v) public education campaigns, provided that programs under each
subsection (i) through (v) are each appropriated no less than one-tenth
o f this 25 percent: and

(C)	25 percent to the Recreation and Park
Department for recreation centers, organized sports, and athletic
programming, provided that up to two-fifths of this 25 percent may
be allocated bv the Recreation and Park Department to community-
based organizations for Active Recreation Programs, with a priority on
programs serving low-income and underserved communities: and

(D)	10 percent to be allocated through the
Department of Public Health to fund grants to community-based
organizations for programs that support (i) healthy food access:

(ii) active recreation: (iii) oral health: (iv) chronic disease prevention:
and for public education campaigns.

Should anv of the above governmental entities cease to exist, or if
Eligible Programs are trans ferred from anv of these entities to another
department or agency. then the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors
are authorized to expend the proceeds of this Tax to anv department
or agency that is a successor to that entity and that operates Eligible
Programs, or to a department or agency to which those Eligible
Programs are trans ferred, for expenditures that would otherwise be
authorized under this Article 8.

(b)	Anv balance remaining in the Fund at the close of anv
fiscal year shall be deemed to have been provided for a specified
purpose within the meaning of Section 9.113(a) of the Charter and shall
be carried forward and accumulated in the Fund for the purposes and
goals recited in this Article 8.

(c)	Goals. The goals of expenditures from the Fund shall be to:

(D Promote active recreation, health, nutrition, and food

access programs among all San Francisco residents:

(2)	Improve physical activity, health. and nutrition
programs in the San Francisco Unified School District: and

(3)	Give special consideration to communities that are
disproportionately affected bv diseases related to Sugar-Sweetened
Beverage consumption, including obesity, diabetes, and coronary
disease. as measured bv the most recent data available to the
Department of Public Health.

(d)	New Programs. The intent of this Section 557 is to provide
dedicated revenues to increase Eligible Programs. There fore, except
as otherwise specified in this Article 8. revenues in the Fund mav
only be appropriated to the extent that the Controller certifies that
appropriations contained in the adopted budget from other funding
sources exceed those in a given year, as measured and adjusted bv the
Controller pursuant to this Section 557, subsection (e).

Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph. Eligible Programs
shall not include:

(1)	Anv program for which a fixed or minimum level of
expenditure is mandated bv state or federal law, to the extent of the fixed
or minimum level of expenditure:

(2)	Acquisition of anv capital item not for primary and
direct use o f participants in an Eligible Program:

(3)	Acquisition (other than by lease for a term of ten years
or less) of anv real property: or

(4)	Maintenance, utilities, or anv similar operating costs
of anv facility not used primarily and directly bv participants in Eligible
Programs, or a library, hospital, or anv recreation or park facility that
is a zoo.

(e)	Expenditure After Baseline Year. No Funds shall be
expended pursuant to subsection (a)(3) in anv fiscal year following a
fiscal year in which the amounts appropriated for Eligible Programs
(not including appropriations from the Fund and exclusive o f
expenditures mandated bv state or federal law) is below the amount
expended for Citv-operated Eligible Programs and City- funded grants
for Eligible Programs in the Baseline Year, as adjusted in the manner
provided in the following sentences (the “Base Amount”). All funds
unexpended in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be held in
the Fund and mav be expended in any future fiscal year in which other
expenditures from the Fund mav be made. The Controller shall adjust
the Base Amount for each fiscal year after the Baseline Year based on
calculations consistent from fiscal year to fiscal year bv the percentage
increase or decrease in aggregate City discretionary revenues. In
determining aggregate City discretionary revenues, the Controller shall
only include revenues received bv the City that are unrestricted and mav
be used at the option of the Mayor and the Board of Supervisors for anv
law ful City purpose. The method used bv the Controller to determine
discretionary revenues shall be consistent with the method used bv

the Controller to determine the Library and Children’s Fund Baseline
calculations, as provided in Charter Section 16.108(g). The change in
aggregate discretionary revenues will be adjusted at year end when
final revenues are known.

(f)	Commencing January 1. 2017. the Controller shall file
annually with the Board of Supervisors, bv January 1 of each year, a
report containing the following:

(1)	The amount of funds collected and expended, and the
allocation of expenditures from the Fund, during the prior fiscal year.

(2)	The status of anv Eligible Program required or
authorized to be funded under this Article 8.

(3)	Such other information as the Controller, in the
Controller’s sole discretion, shall deem relevant to the operation of this
Article 8.

SEC 558. OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.

(a) There is hereby established a Healthy Nutrition and
Physical Activity Access Fund Committee that shall consist of fifteen
members. Members shall have two-vear terms but shall serve at the
pleasure of their respective appointing authorities. No member shall