From SmartVoter

Humboldt County, CA	November	4,	2014 Election

Measure Q

Sales Tax Extension
City of Eureka

Majority Approval Required

Pass: 4751 / 66.6% Yes votes. 2382 / 33.4% No votes

See Also: Index of all Measures

Results as of Nov 4 11:42pm

Information shown below: Impartial Analysis | Arguments | Full Text

Shall the Eureka Municipal Code be amended to extend
a one-half of one percent (0.50%) supplemental
transaction and use tax to fund essential sendees such as
police, fire medical response, street maintenance,
environmental programs, zoo, parks and recreation with
the following restrictions? The supplemental transaction
and use tax will expire after five years, unless
reauthorized by the voters. A citizen's oversight
committee shall be established to conduct annual audits
of all expenditures generated by the tax to ensure fiscal
accountability and public participation.

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would
continue the one-half of one percent (1/2%) increase to
the sales tax rate in the City of Eureka that was approved
by the voters in 2010 through Measure O.

This tax is a general purpose tax, and all revenue
generated from the continuation of the proposed sales tax
would be deposited into the City's General Fund and,
accordingly, all monies collected would be used by the
City to pay for essential general City operations and
services including police protection, fire suppression,
emergency medical response, street maintenance,
environmental programs, parks and recreation, and zoo
operations. As such, this ballot measure proposes a

"general purpose tax," rather than a "special purpose tax,"
and requires a simple majority vote for adoption.

The proposed 1/2% sales tax would be levied in addition
to the current sales tax and would be collected at the same
time and in the same manner as the Measure O increase.

Due to the passage of Measure O, the sales tax in Eureka
is currently 8.25%. A yes vote would continue this sales
tax rate in the City of Eureka.

The current tax generated approximately $4.1 million this
past fiscal year.

Measure Q contains fiscal accountability provisions,
which include the continuation of the citizen's oversight
committee, created by the City Council with the passage
of Measure O, to annually review the City's expenditure of
the revenues generated by the tax. The composition of the
oversight committee and its specific duties are established
by the City Council.

If approved by a majority of the voters at the November 4,

2014 election, the 1/2% sales tax would become operative
on July 1, 2016 and would terminate after five (5) years.

A "yes" vote is a vote to continue the increase in the sales
tax rate in the City of Eureka by one-half of one per cent
(1/2%) at 8.25%.

A "no" vote is a vote to allow the sunset of Measure O
reverting the sales tax rate in the City of Eureka to 7.75%.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure
Q. If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the
elections office at (707) 441-4144 and a copy will be
mailed at no cost to you. The proposed ordinance can also
be viewed on the City's website at:
http://www.ci.eureka.ca.gov.

/s/ Cyndy Day-Wilson City Attorney City of Eureka

Arguments For Measure Q	Arguments	Against	Measure	Q

VOTE YES ON MEASURE "Q"! A YES No arguments against Measure Q were
vote means that you support the services and submitted,
programs provided by our Fire and Police

Departments. In 2014, nearly 90% of these
funds went directly to Public Safety staffing
and programs. A YES vote means you value
Sequoia Park Zoo, safe parks, recreation, and
programs to protect the environment. A YES
vote on this measure means a continuation of
Measure O that was approved by voters in
2010. The sales tax will raise $4 million
annually for 5 years to help fund critical city
services. A YES vote means you are taking an
active role in protecting our quality of life in
Eureka. FACTS:

Sunset: This authorization will expire after 5
years.

Accountability: A citizen's oversight
committee will annually review the City's
expenditure of the revenue generated by the
tax; and the City shall post to their website, a
detailed spending plan and an annual report
from the City of revenues collected and how
the funds have been spent.

Fairness: The Vi cent sales tax is a fair way to
provide funding for critical city services. A
significant portion of the money will come
from taxable purchases made by people who
live outside of Eureka. ALL 100% of this %
cent sales tax will remain in Eureka to serve
our residents and businesses.

Your City government is committed to
maintaining essential public services such as
police protection, fire suppression, emergency
medical, road maintenance, environmental
programs, zoo, and parks. Please, VOTE
"YES" on Measure "Q", and support your
City in its efforts to deliver to you these
essential public services.

A unanimous City Council of Eureka
recommends a "yes" vote on Measure "Q".

/s/Councilmember Marian Brady
/s/Councilmember Linda Atkins

/s/Councilmember Mike L. Newman
/s/Councilmember Melinda Ciarabellini
/s/Councilmember Chet Albin

Full Text of Measure Q

RESOLUTION NO. 2014-28

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EUREKA CALLING FOR
THE HOLDING OF A GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 4, 2014, FOR THE SUBMISSION TO THE VOTERS A QUESTION
RELATING TO AN EXENSION OF A SUPPLEMENTAL TRANSACTION AND USE TAX

WHEREAS, under the provisions of the Charter a General Municipal Election shall be held on
November 4, 2014, for the election Municipal Officers; and

NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EUREKA, DOES RESOLVE,
DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the Charter, there is called and ordered to be
held in the City of Eureka, California, on Tuesday, November 4,

2014.

SECTION 2. That THE City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does order submitted
to the voters at the General Municipal Election the following question:

Shall the Eureka Municipal Code be amended to extend a one-half of one percent (0.50%)
supplemental transaction and use tax to fund essential services such as police, fire medical
response, street maintenance, environmental programs, zoo, parks and recreation with the
following restrictions?

The supplemental transaction and use tax will expire after five years, unless reauthorized by the
voters.

A citizen's oversight committee shall be established to conduct annual audits of all expenditures
generated by the tax to ensure fiscal accountability and public participation.

SECTION 3. That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content as required
by law.

SECTION 4. That the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to coordinate with the
County of Humboldt County Clerk to procure and furnish any and all official ballots, notices,
printed matter and all supplies, equipment and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to
properly and lawfully conduct the election.

SECTION 5. That the polls for the election shall be open at seven o'clock a.m. of the day of the
election and shall remain open continuously from that time until 8 o'clock p.m. of the day of the

election and shall pursuant to Election Code § 10242, except as provided in § 14401 of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

SECTION 6. That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held and
conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 7. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City
Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election, in
time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 8. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution and
enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Eureka in the
County of Humboldt, State of California, on the 3rd day of June, 2014 by the following vote:

AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS BRADY, ATKINS, NEWMAN, CIARABELL1NI, ALBIN

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN: