BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
Jurisdiction Name: ^me|ry |Jnjfjecj School District	Election Date: ^jovember 4, ^

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.

Insert ballot question text here:

[ Without increasing taxes, to improve Emeryville schools/student achievement
> by continuing local funding for programs including- reading, writing, math,
[science, keeping classes small/school libraries open, recruiting/retaining
qualified, experienced teachers/staff; maintaining classroom technology;
providing counselors, shall Emery Unified School District renew its existing
; voter-approved parcel tax at the current rate of 15 cents per square foot of
building area for 20 years with a senior exemption, Independent Citizens’
Oversight and all funds staying local?

TYPE OF MEASURE

\j\ Regular Measure |	|	Bond	Measure

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS

66 667	%

FULL TEXT OPTION

Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

\y/\YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)

□no - A Full Text was not submitted

|	|	NO	-	Do	not	print,	but	it's accessible at:______________________

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

Print Name:

John Rubio

Date:

August 5, 2014

Signature^

CONTACT INFORMATION (for office use)

CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)

Phone #:|

Phone #:

510 601-4906

E-Maill

I E-Mail/Website:

John.Rubio@emeryusd.k12.ca.us

Emery USD - Ballot Measure Question

Without increasing taxes, to improve Emeryville schools/student achievement by continuing
local funding for programs including: reading, writing, math, science; keeping classes
small/school libraries open; recruiting/retaining qualified, experienced teachers/staff;
maintaining classroom technology; providing counselors; shall Emery Unified School District
renew its existing voter-approved parcel tax at the current rate of 15 cents per square foot of
building area for 20 years with a senior exemption. Independent Citizens' Oversight and all
funds staying local?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

ANALYSIS BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY COUNSEL OF AN
EMERY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALIFIED SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE

Measure K, an Emery Unified School District ("District") qualified special parcel tax
measure, seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy a twenty year special parcel tax.
The tax rate is fifteen cents ($0 15) per square foot of total building area on each parcel of
taxable real property beginning July 1,2017, to fund the programs set forth in the measure. This
special parcel tax will extend the levy (without raising the tax rate) of a previous voter-approved
parcel tax that expires on June 30, 2017

A school district has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the
votes cast on the special tax proposal. (See Cal Const. Art. XIII A, § 4, Art. XIII C, §2; Cal
Gov’t Code §§ 50075-50077, 50079, & 53722, et seq)

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the special
tax revenue will be used for the specific purposes set forth in the full text of the measure printed
in this sample ballot. These purposes include, but are not limited to: funding academic
curriculum and educational programs in areas such as mathematics and science and recruiting
and retaining teachers and staff The measure further provides that the proceeds shall be
expended only for the purposes specified in the measure An independent financial auditor
shall report annually to the governing board stating the amount collected and expended in each
year, and the status of any projects or programs funded The governing board shall also
establish a citizens’ oversight committee to advise the governing board about the proper
expenditure of the proceeds of the tax.

If the measure passes, a qualified special parcel tax will be imposed in the amount noted
above. The annual square footage calculation will be based on data from the Alameda County
Assessor, the City of Emeryville, and voluntary disclosures by the property owners Taxpayers
who believe the calculation is incorrect may provide the District with evidence of the total
building area, and the District will reconcile the data and update its records accordingly The tax
will be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the
same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected. Exemptions are available to each
property owner who will attain the age of 65 years before July 1 of the parcel tax year, owns a
beneficial interest in the parcel, uses the parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and
applies to the District on or before July 1, 2017 or July 1 of any succeeding parcel tax year

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the
measure will fail, and the District will not be authorized to levy the special tax for a term of
twenty years beginning July 1, 2017

This measure is placed on the ballot by the governing board of the District.

DONNA R. ZIEGLER
County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure K, which measure is printed in
full in this sample ballot pamphlet. If you desire an additional copy of the measure, please call
the Elections Official's office at (510) 272-6933, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.
You may also access the full text of the measure on the Alameda County website at the
following address: www.acqov.org/rov.

Argument in Favor of Measure K

Vote YES on K -continue maintaining outstanding reading, writing, math and science programs for
our local Emeryville students, with NO increase in taxes!

Thanks to your support, student academic performance has significantly improved over the last few
years in the Emery Unified School District. YES on K builds on these advancements, while continuing
to provide excellent, quality education for our students.

YES on K simply renews existing funding with NO increase in current tax rates
YES on K maintains core academic programs in reading, writing, math and science
YES on K helps recruit and retain qualified teachers
YES on K keeps school libraries open

YES on K is fiscally responsible and includes Independent Citizens' Oversight

If locally-approved funding is not renewed at current tax rates, at least 25% of funding for
Emeryville's schools will be eliminated -- causing significant increases in class sizes. Remember,
Measure K is NOT a new tax—it simply renews/continues an existing measure first adopted by
Emeryville voters more than a decade ago to maintain vital funding for Emeryville's schools.

NO money will be spent on administrators' salaries, pensions or benefits, all funds will be spent in
Emeryville for our local schools, and cannot be taken by Sacramento. An Independent Citizens
Oversight Committee of Emeryville residents will continue to monitor all funds to ensure they are
being spent as promised to you, the taxpayer. Seniors age 65 and up will continue to be exempt.

Our community is united on the importance of quality education and good schools, which are not
only the right thing to support, but contribute to strong property values - vote YES on K!

Join a broad coalition including the Emeryville Chamber of Commerce, teachers, parents, seniors, and
community leaders in voting YES on K!

For factual information, visit:	www.emeryusd.kl2.ca.us.

For campaign information, visit:	www.YESonKHelpEmerySchools.com

Melodi Dice, President, Emery Unified School District Board of Trustees
Bob Canter, President & CEO, Emeryville Chamber of Commerce
Thomas Salvatore, Emery USD Music Teacher
Ellen Naghavi, Anna Yates Elementary Parent

Direct Argument Signers

For Measure K

Argument in Favor

1.	Melodi Dice

President, Emery Unified School District Board of Trustees

2.	Bob Canter

President & CEO, Emeryville Chamber of Commerce

3.	Thomas Salvatore
Emery USD Music Teacher

4.	Ellen Naghavi

Anna Yates Elementary Parent

EXHIBIT A

FULL BALLOT TEXT
OF THE MEASURE

EMERY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT AND EXCELLENCE IN TEACHING RENEWAL MEASURE

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the Emery Unified School District Student

Achievement and Excellence in Teaching Renewal Measure or as Measure_(designation to

be assigned by County registrar of Voters).

FINDINGS

The Emery Unified School District has enjoyed community support for quality education and
student achievement, with District voters strongly supporting two previous measures to ensure
a reliable source of local funding to maintain academic excellence.

Thanks to the continued support of the community Emery Unified School District student aca-
demic performance has significantly improved over the last few years.

A superior and comprehensive K-12 education program delivers many long-lasting benefits and
advantages to all the children and residents of a community.

An extension of Measure A, approved by Emery voters in 2007, that will supplement regular
State and local school funding, is necessary to protect our children and their education pro-
grams from serious damage.

If locally-approved funding is not renewed at current tax rates, at least 25% of the Emery Uni-
fied School District's budget will be eliminated, causing significant increases in class sizes and
potentially causing a situation where Emery schools would be absorbed into surrounding
school districts, where taxes are higher.

Continuing existing local funding with NO increase in current tax rates will allow the District to
continue to provide excellent, quality education for its students; and

Continued funding with NO increase in current tax rates will maintain core academic programs
in reading, writing, math and science; recruit and retain qualified teachers; and keep school li-
braries open, among other priorities.

A-l

NONE of the continued funding will be spent on administrators' salaries, pensions or benefits,
and all funds will be spent in Emeryville for its local schools, and cannot be taken by Sacramen-
to.

TERMS

Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this Proposition, the District shall be authorized
to levy a qualified special tax (school parcel tax renewal) for twenty years, beginning on July 1,
2017, at the rate of 15 cents per square foot of total building area on each parcel of taxable real
property located wholly or partly within the District.

If approved by two thirds of the voters casting ballots on this measure, the special taxes so au-
thorized will extend the levy under Measure A for an additional 20 years, commencing on Ju-
ly 1, 2017, and expiring on July 1, 2037. Whether this measure is approved, the special taxes ap-
proved by Measure A shall continue in effect, in accordance with their terms, through and in-
cluding June 30, 2017.

PURPOSES

Moneys raised under this school parcel tax renewal shall be authorized to be used to maintain
programs and services that would be at risk without continuation of the parcel tax, including
but not limited to preserving funding to:

(i)	Strengthen and improve academic curriculum and educational programs in the follow-
ing essential areas:

(A)	Mathematics

(B)	Science

(C)	Literacy

(D)	Music

(E)	Visual and Performing Arts

(ii)	Strengthen and improve programs and services in the following areas which contribute
to student academic success:

(A)	School libraries

(B)	Wellness Initiative

(C)	Counseling

(D)	Tutoring and mentoring

(E)	Keeping classroom technology up to date and providing technology support

(iii)	Recruit and retain quality teachers and staff.

A-2

(iv)	Keep class sizes small.

The revenue raised by the school parcel tax renewal shall not be used for general educational
purposes, but shall be used solely for the specific educational purposes set forth in this measure.
Each year, the Board of Education shall determine which of these specific educational purposes
shall be funded and the amount of such funding.

EXEMPTIONS

The exemptions provided for below shall be available pursuant to procedures to be prescribed
by the Board of Education or otherwise as required by law or by the Alameda County Tax Col-
lector.

Senior Exemption. An exemption will be made available to each property owner in the District
who will attain the age of 65 years prior to July 1 of the parcel tax year, who owns a beneficial
interest in the parcel, who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence and who
applies to the District on or before July 1, 2017, or July 1 of any succeeding parcel tax year. Any
one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the re-
maining term of the parcel tax so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her
principal residence. Senior exemptions granted during the term of the existing school parcel tax
Measure A or the immediately proceeding school parcel tax measure will continue.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the school parcel tax renewal, the Board of Edu-
cation shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds, pursuant to Govern-
ment Code Section 50075.1. For so long as the tax is collected, the Superintendent of the District
shall cause an independent financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of
Education no later than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2018, stating (1)
the amount collected and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or descrip-
tion of any programs funded. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be incorporated in-
to or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board of
Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in this Proposition shall constitute the specific
purposes of the school parcel tax renewal, and proceeds thereof shall be applied only for such
purposes.

Citizen's Oversight Committee. The Citizen's Oversight Committee established in connection
with the existing school parcel tax shall be continued and shall meet and advise the Board of
Education about the proper expenditure of the proceeds of the school parcel tax renewal. The
Citizen's Oversight Committee shall also review the annual report prepared by the District re-

A-3

garding the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any program authorized
to be funded.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The District or its designee annually shall provide the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector
a report indicating the parcel number and amount of tax for each parcel of taxable real property.

For purposes of calculating each year's taxes on each taxable parcel, the square feet of total
building area shall be based on data from the Alameda County Assessor, the City of Emeryville,
and voluntary disclosure by property owners. Annually, the square feet of total building area
shall be updated using data from those sources. Data for parcels which have a building permit
issued by March 31 of each year for new construction, addition of square footage or demolition
will be updated for the following Fiscal Year. Data for parcels which have such a building per-
mit issued after March 31 of each year will be updated for the next Fiscal Year for which such
update is timely.

While data from the Assessor's Office and the City of Emeryville is deemed to be reliable, it is
recognized that the data is not accurate in every instance. Therefore, taxpayers who believe the
total building area used for their school parcel tax renewal calculation is incorrect may provide
the District or its designee with evidence of the total building area and the District will reconcile
the data and update its records accordingly. As with new building permit data, if a taxpayer
submits corrective data by March 31 and such data results in a change in the total building area
used to calculate the parcel's tax, then the tax for the following Fiscal Year shall be recomputed
accordingly. If such data is submitted after March 31, then the District's records will be updated
for the next Fiscal Year for which such update is timely.

The school parcel tax renewal shall be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector
at the same time and in the same manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem
property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the
same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. Any tax levied will become
a lien upon the properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible.

The school parcel tax renewal shall be due with respect to every parcel of real property in the
District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Alameda Coun-
ty Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which
are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the school parcel
tax renewal in such year. In addition, parcels may be exempt from the school parcel tax renewal
as described above under "EXEMPTIONS".

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels to the Alameda County tax collection offi-
cials which the District has approved for an exemption in accordance with this Proposition. The
Alameda County Assessor's determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel

A-4

from taxation, other than through said exemption, shall be final and binding for the purposes of
the school parcel tax renewal. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor's determina-
tion must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to
Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures.
Taxpayers seeking a refund of any tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property
tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

The Board of Education may adopt such additional or supplemental procedures as it deems
necessary or convenient for the administration of the school parcel tax renewal.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

If the Congress or State Legislature enacts any law, or the U.S. Department of Education, or the
State Department of Education or State Board of Education adopts any rule, providing that oth-
er funding to which the District would otherwise be entitled will be reduced as a result of the
District's income from the school parcel tax renewal, then the Board of Education may take ac-
tion as soon as practicable to reduce the amount or rate of the school parcel tax renewal such
that the amount collected will not cause such other funding to be reduced.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this Proposition concur,
that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this Proposition has independent value,
and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regard-
less of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this Proposition by the voters, should
any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remain-
ing parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

A-5

EXHIBIT B

ABBREVIATED TEXT OF MEASURE

(This summarizes, in 75 words or less, the full text of the proposition which appears on Exhibit A above.)

"Without increasing taxes, to improve Emeryville schools/student achievement by continuing
local funding for programs including: reading, writing, math, science; keeping classes
small/school libraries open; recruiting/retaining qualified, experienced teachers/staff; maintain-
ing classroom technology; providing counselors; shall Emery Unified School District renew its
existing voter-approved parcel tax at the current rate of 15 cents per square foot of building area
for 20 years with a senior exemption. Independent Citizens' Oversight and all funds staying lo-
cal?"

Tax - Yes

Tax - No

C-l

EXHIBIT C

FORMAL NOTICE OF SCHOOL PARCEL TAX RENEWAL ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Emery Unified School District of
Alameda County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code of
the State of California, an election will be held on November 4, 2014, at which election the
following local funding measure shall be submitted to the qualified electors of the District and
voted upon:

"Without increasing taxes, to improve Emeryville schools/student
achievement by continuing local funding for programs including:
reading, writing, math, science; keeping classes small/school
libraries open; recruiting/retaining qualified, experienced
teachers/staff; maintaining classroom technology; providing
counselors; shall Emery Unified School District renew its existing
voter-approved parcel tax at the current rate of 15 cents per square
foot of building area for 20 years with a senior exemption.

Independent Citizens' Oversight and all funds staying local?"

Tax - Yes	Tax	- No

All of the purposes enumerated in the foregoing measure shall be united and voted upon as one
single measure.

The County Superintendent of Schools of Alameda County, by this Notice of Election, has called
the election pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Education of the Emery Unified School
District, adopted July 30, 2014, in accordance with the provisions of Education Code Sections
5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this_______day of___________, 2014.

Damon Smith

Associate Superintendent

Alameda County, California

C-l