CITY OF PISMO BEACH
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 1-14

If approved by the voters, Measure 1-14, entitled “The Pismo Beach Vital Public Service
Protection Measure”, would amend the Pismo Beach Municipal Code to extend the current
retail transactions and use tax within the City that was approved by the voters in 2008. This
measure is authorized by the State Legislature under Revenue and Taxation Code Section
7285.9. This measure would set the retail transactions and use tax rate at one-half of one
percent (0.50%). At this rate, for example, a retail transaction $100 in value would generate a
tax of 50 cents. The proposed transactions and use tax would be imposed upon the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail within the City. This measure would authorize the City
to enter into a contract with the State Board Of Equalization to administer and collect the tax.

This measure requires all proceeds of the tax to be deposited into the City’s General Fund to
be used for such general municipal governmental purposes as the City Council shall direct.
Among such purposes are street and sidewalk construction, maintenance and repair, pothole
repair, storm drain construction, maintenance and repair, and pier maintenance.

This measure would provide several enumerated exemptions and exclusions from the
transactions and use tax. It would further prohibit the issuance of any injunction to prohibit the
collection of the tax. The ordinance proposed by this measure will only become effective if
approved by a majority of those electors voting on the measure. The measure provides that, if
approved at election, the tax would expire twelve years following its operative date without
further action of the City Council or the voters.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

This measure was placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City of Pismo Beach.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure 1-14. If you desire a copy of the
measure, please call the elections official’s office at (805) 773-7003 and a copy will be
mailed at no cost to you.

s/ David Fleishman

City Attorney, City of Pismo Beach

117

YOUR YES vote on Measure 1-14 will continue the existing 1/2 penny sales tax. If you do not
vote YES this valuable revenue stream will reach its sunset and come to an end. There is
good reason to vote yes. For six years this almost unnoticeable tax has raised close to a
million dollars ($1,000,000) a year from tourists. The city uses this revenue exclusively for
"infrastructure” improvements like paving your roads and streets, repairing sidewalks, installing
handicapped ramps at corners, fixing seawalls, keeping the pier safe, repairing and extending
storm and sewer drains throughout Pismo Beach neighborhoods, and much more. As
promised, none goes for salaries or administration.

Under this new version of the law, the city is required to report quarterly to voters on how the
money is spent. Like the original 1/2 penny tax law that citizens voted in 6 years ago, the new
law contains a “sunset clause.” That means voters will once again be able to vote the tax out
at the end of its term if they feel it’s not been used properly.

Your YES vote will guarantee the paving of your streets and continued repair of sidewalks, the
continued improvement of local parks, and allow the city the opportunity to improve pedestrian
trails and bike paths, undergrounding utilities, completing the Shell Beach streetscape...and
more. Remember, nearly all taxable purchases in Pismo Beach are bought by visitors. As a
result this tiny but helpful tax has truly benefited our residents. To continue this million dollar
annual income flow that makes your city a nicer, prettier, safer and a more pleasant place to
live, VOTE YES ON MEASURE 1-14.

More information at www.pismobeachsalestax.com

si Shelly Higginbotham, Mayor
si Erik Howell, City Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE 1-14 WAS SUBMITTED

118

CITY OF SAN LUIS OBISPO
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G-14

ORDINANCE NO. 1604 (2014 Series)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL AND THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY
OF SAN LUIS OBISPO, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING CHAPTER 3.15 OF THE MUNICIPAL
CODE TO EXTEND THE EXISTING "ESSENTIAL SERVICES TRANSACTIONS
(SALES) AND USE TAX," FOR AN ADDITIONAL EIGHT YEARS (MARCH 31, 2023), TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION; UPDATE THE
PURPOSE STATEMENT; AND PROVIDE FOR ADDITIONAL CITIZEN
OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTING TRANSPARENCY.

WHEREAS, in 2006, the voters of San Luis Obispo approved the San Luis Obispo
Essential Services Measure (also commonly known as Measure Y, its 2006 ballot designation)
with 64.77% of the vote, establishing a half-cent per dollar sales tax to address fiscal
challenges including State takeaways totaling more than $22 million over the prior 15 years,
and ongoing State funding reductions of $3 million annually; and

WHEREAS, the purpose of Measure Y was to secure a local revenue source to
protect and maintain essential community services such as neighborhood street paving
and pothole repair, traffic congestion relief, police protection, fire and paramedic
services, flood protection, senior citizen services and facilities, neighborhood code
enforcement, open space preservation and other vital general purpose services; and

WHEREAS, the voter's approval of Measure Y in 2006 allowed the City to: restore
its neighborhood paving and flood protection programs; restore sworn police positions that had
been cut, as well as restore the City's Fire Marshal to a full-time position; and restore its open
space acquisition program, aiding in the purchase of portions of the Irish Hills, Stenner
Canyon, and Reservoir Canyon natural reserves; and also gave the City the ability to provide
added services for residents, including hiring two neighborhood services specialists, hiring two
downtown daytime police patrol officers, and hiring a ranger services maintenance worker;
and

WHEREAS, the City’s financial challenges continued after the adoption of Measure
Y due to the Great Recession - which impacted all of the City’s major revenue sources
including property tax, transient occupancy tax, and sales tax - but even during the Great
Recession, the City was still able to maintain a high level of service for its residents; and,

WHEREAS, due to Measure Y revenue and the financial stability created by City
actions - including (1) compensation reductions agreed to by employees saving the City over
$3 million in ongoing, annual savings, and (2) pension reform efforts that require employees
to pay their share of pension costs, and implementation of three tiers of retirement benefits so
that, over time, the cost to the City for retirement benefits for new public employees will be
significantly reduced - the City has invested in new Capital Improvement Projects, such as
the Santa Rosa Skate Park, the Bob Jones Trail bridge at Los Osos Valley Road, and is in a
position to make new open space acquisitions in the City’s greenbelt; and

WHEREAS, the City Council appointed a 10-person citizen advisory committee to
analyze the City’s stewardship of Measure Y resources and report back to the City Council
with its recommendations, and following several meetings, a public opinion survey, a public
open house, and deliberations among the committee members, the committee recommended
that the City Council place a measure before the voters to extend the Essential Services
Sales and Use Tax for another eight years; and

WHEREAS, the City’s Essential Services Sales and Use Tax includes substantial
accountability measures including: requirements for independent annual financial audits;
integration of use of funds into the City’s budget and goal-setting process; annual community
reports; and annual citizen engagement meetings; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to include additional accountability measures,
including a Citizen’s Revenue Enhancement Oversight Commission and a new Fiscal
Responsibility Philosophy to increase transparency and accountability and to ensure the
expenditure of revenue measure funds in alignment with evolving community priorities, as
defined through citizen engagement and City Council direction; and

WHEREAS, the City's Essential Services Transactions (Sales) and Use Tax
Ordinance is found in Chapter 3.15 of the City's Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, Section 3.15.03 of this Chapter sets forth a expiration date of March
31, 2015, at which time Chapter 3.15 will expire, unless extended by the voters of the City at
an election called for that purpose; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to place a measure before the voters in the
November 2014 General Election to extend the City's existing one-half percent Transactions
and Use Tax, Chapter 3.15, for another eight years, to March 31, 2023.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council and the People of the
City of San Luis Obispo as follows:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.15 of the City’s Municipal Code is hereby amended and
re-enacted in full to read as follows:

Chapter 3.15

ESSENTIAL SERVICES TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX
3.15.010 Title.

This chapter shall be known as the “city of San Luis Obispo essential services transactions
(sales) and use tax ordinance.” The city of San Luis Obispo hereinafter shall be called the
“city.” This chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the city.

3.15.020 Purpose.

This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To protect and maintain essential services and facilities— such as open space preservation;
bike lanes, sidewalks and other traffic congestion relief projects; public safety; neighborhood
street paving and code enforcement; flood protection; senior citizen programs including
services and facilities; and other vital general purpose services and capital improvement
projects —by extending a general purpose retail transactions and use tax of one-half percent in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which authorizes the
city to adopt this general purpose tax chapter, which shall be operative if two-thirds of the
council and a majority vote of the electors voting on the measure, vote to approve the
extension of this general purpose revenue source at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the sales and use tax law of the state of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

120

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in
a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State sales and use taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax chapter that can be administered in a manner that
will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time minimize the burden of recordkeeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this chapter.

3.15.030 Eight-year sunset.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this chapter shall expire in eight years, on March 31,
2023, unless extended by the voters.

3.15.040 Fiscal accountability provisions—Citizen oversight and independent annual
financial audits.

Along with the city’s ongoing commitment to citizen involvement as a fundamental principle of
good government, specific citizen oversight and fiscal accountability provisions are hereby
established as follows:

A.	Revenue Enhancement Oversight Commission. A citizen’s commission will be
established to provide transparency and maximize City accountability. The
Commission will be responsible for reviewing and making budget recommendations
directly to the City Council regarding expenditures from the essential services
transactions (sales) and use tax, and reporting annually to the community on the
City's use of these tax revenues.

B.	Accounting and Tracking Expenditures. The funds collected through the City of
San Luis Obispo essential services transactions (sales) and use tax ordinance shall
be accounted for and tracked by the City Treasurer separately to facilitate citizen
oversight.

C.	Independent Annual Financial Audit. The amount generated by this general
purpose revenue source and how it was used shall be included in the annual audit of
the city’s financial operations by an independent certified public accountant.

D.	Integration of the Use of Funds into the City’s Budget and Goal-Setting
Process. The estimated revenue and proposed use of funds generated by this
measure shall be an integral part of the city’s budget and goal-setting process, and
significant opportunities will be provided for meaningful participation by citizens in
determining priority uses of these funds.

E.	Annual Community Report. A written report shall be reviewed at a public hearing by
the Revenue Enhancement Oversight Commission, and a summary will be provided
annually to every household in the community detailing how much revenue is being
generated by the measure and how funds are being spent.

F.	Annual Citizen Oversight Meeting. An invitation will be extended each year to the
entire community inviting them to participate in a forum to review and discuss the use
of the revenue generated by this measure. City staff will also be available to meet
with any group that requests a specific briefing with their members to discuss and
answer questions about the revenues generated by the measure and their uses.

3.15.050 Transactions (sales) tax rate.

121

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the city at the rate of one-half percent of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this chapter.

3.15.060 Use tax rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the city of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this
chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half percent of
the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.15.070 Operative

“Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than one
hundred ten days after the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter.

3.15.080 Contract with state.

Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use
tax chapter; provided, that if the city shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such
a contract.

3.15.090 Place of sale.

For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of
the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.15.100 Adoption of provisions of state law.

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions
of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.

3.15.110 Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the state of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this city shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “state” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

122

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the state of California, where the result
of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage,
use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the state under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;
or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property, which would not be subject
to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “city” shall be substituted for the word “state” in the phrase “retailer engaged in
business in this state” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203. (Ord.
1495 § 11, 2006)

3.15.120 Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this chapter.

3.15.130 Exemptions and exclusions.

The following transactions shall be exempted and excluded:

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the state of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county
in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the
laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a point
outside the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment
to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this section, delivery to a
point outside the city shall be satisfied:

123

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-city address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property, which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (B)(3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage, use or other
consumption in this city of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (C)(3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power

124

over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subsection (C)(7) of this section, a retailer engaged
in business in the city shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers
the property into the city or participates within the city in making the sale of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the city or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person
in the city under the authority of the retailer.

7.	A retailer engaged in business in the city shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel or
aircraft at an address in the city.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.15.140 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all
amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this chapter; provided, however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter.

3.15.150 Enjoining collection forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action or proceeding in any court against the state or the city, or against any officer of the state
or the city, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 2. A summary of this ordinance, together with the names of Council
members voting for and against, shall be published at least five (5) days prior to its final
passage, in The Tribune, a newspaper published and circulated in this City. This ordinance
shall go into effect upon adoption by the voters.

125