Ballot question

The question on the ballot:[i]

u

Shall Article VI be added to Chapter 18 of the Lake County
Code imposing a one-half of

one percent (0.50%) transaction and use tax (sales tax) to
implement a Healthy Lake

Tax for the County of Lake for a maximum period of ten (10)
years with all revenues exclusively under Lake County Watershed
Protection District control to combat aquatic weeds, algae,
invasive mussels and fund wet land restoration and water quality

JJ

projects with an expenditure plan with citizen oversight for
revenues generated?[2]

Impartial analysis

The following impartial analysis was prepared for Measure S by
the office of the county counsel:[i]

If approved by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon,

Measure “S” would authorize the County of Lake (the “County”) to
levy a transactions and use tax for the purpose of providing funds

to be used solely and exclusively for the Lake County Water
Quality, Aquatic Invasive Species, and Nuisance Aquatic Weed
and Algae Programs. The tax would be applicable through out the
entire county, including the incorporated and unincorporated
areas.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.5 permits a
County Board of Supervisors to levy, increase, or extend a
transactions and use tax (a sales tax) for a specific purpose so
long as the ordinance proposing the tax is approved by a
two-thirds vote of the Board of Supervisors, and then
subsequently approved by a two-thirds vote of the voters.

The Lake County Board of Supervisors has unanimously
determined to propose to the electorate of the County that a sales
tax for those specific purposes described above be imposed and
has adopted an ordinance for that purpose.

If approved by the voters, proceeds from this tax would be
collected by the California State Board of Equalization and
deposited in the County Treasury in a special fund entitled the
“Water Quality, Aquatic Invasive Species and Aquatic Weed and
Algae Prevention and Control Fund” (here in after, the “Fund”)
which would be managed and administered by the Lake County
Watershed Protection District.

The measure would also establish an Expenditure Plan, which
governs how the funds raised by the sales tax can be spent.
Since this is a special purpose tax, monies can be spent only for
the purposes set out in the measure and the Expenditure Plan.
The only programs which will be funded by the Expenditure Plan
are the Water Quality Programs, the Aquatic Invasive Species
Prevention Programs, and the Nuisance Aquatic Weeds and
Algae Program.

The measure requires that the County Auditor-Controller conduct
or cause to be conducted by an independent auditor an annual
audit of the fund and to publish those findings on the County’s
official website. An Oversight Committee comprised of County
residents is required to be established and the Oversight
Committee must annually report to the Board of Supervisors
whether the revenues expended from the Fund conform to the
purposes specified in the measure. The Auditor-Controller shall
be authorized under this measure to expend up to one percent of
the revenues generated by this tax to cover administrative
expenses. All remaining revenues generated by this tax will be
used exclusively to fund those programs described in the
Expenditure Plan.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote
“yes,” the tax will be imposed at a rate of one-half of one percent
(0.50%) on sales and use of tangible personal property for a
period often (10) years in addition to the existing sales and use
tax.

If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors vote for approval of

JJ

this measure, it will fail and the proposed transactions and
use tax will not be levied within the County.[2]

—Anita L. Grant, Lake County Counsels]

Support

Supporters

The official campaign in favor of Measure S was called Save the
Lake. [3]

The following individuals signed the official arguments in favor of
Measure S:[i]

Dennis Darling, business owner
Debi Sally, DVM, veterinarian

David S. Neft, real estate broker and musician Dr. Harry Lyons,
biology professor

Dr. William MacDougall, retired educator

Arguments in favor

The following was submitted as the official arguments in favor of
Measure S:[i]

u

Measure S is responsible local legislation that establishes a

countywide half-cent sales tax to pay for the protection and
restoration of Clear Lake, our community’s greatest asset.

The money raised can be used ONLY to pay for specific projects
benefitting the lake, according to a detailed expenditure plan
incorporated into the ordinance, which has the force of law.
Measure S will provide funding for:

reducing the severe negative impact that noxious algae blooms
and nuisance aquatic weeds have on our quality of life, attraction
for visitors, and broader economy;

keeping destructive quagga mussels and other invasive species
from devastating Clear Lake and other county waterways;

paying the county’s share of the crucial Middle Creek Marsh and
other wetland restoration projects;

funding mandated water quality programs not fully paid for by
state and federal agencies.

These critical programs provide the means to manage, protect,
and invest in our most precious resource - Clear Lake. Without
Measure S, we have no plausible source of funding to meet these
needs.

All Measure S revenues will stay right here in Lake County. They
cannot for any reason be diverted to any other purposes. A
broadly-based citizens over sight committee will meet quarterly to
review proposed projects in advance. An annual independent
audit will insure that money is spent as directed in the ordinance.
A sunset clause means that the measure will expire in ten years.

Passage of Measure S will fund vital lake programs with
dedicated local revenues. It will also send a signal that Lake

County is open for business, and help our economy grow by
attracting visitors and capital investment.^]

—Dennis Darling, Debi Sally, David S. Neft, Dr. Harry Lyons and Dr. William

MacDougall[i] Opposition

Opponents

Philip Murphy, a taxpayer advocate, signed the official arguments
in opposition to Measure S.[i]

Arguments against

The following was submitted as the official arguments in
opposition to Measure S:[i]

u

Measure S taxes local farmers to protect Clear Lake water

owned by their competitors in Yolo county, who pay nothing.

Local residents will be taxed millions of dollars to poison weeds
around hundreds of private and commercial docks, who’s owners
pay nothing extra. California collects $7 million annually for
quagga programs, yet Lake County has not applied for our
share-much of which was paid by local boat owners.

Our county Board of Supervisors appoint a voting majority of the
Lake County Vector Control board and could use the millions of
extra dollars that agency currently has, because quagga qualify
as “vectors” under California Health and Safety code definitions.
We could have funding for a quagga program almost immediately,
and restructuring LCVCD could provide another nearly
$1,000,000 annually. LCVCD money could even fund the
Middlecreek restoration project (vector source reduction).

The BOS knows most nutrient loading of the lake comes from
private property, but won’t consider any land use regulations to
remedy this. The BOS claims the lake is our most important
asset, but spent $3.3 million general fund dollars on a hotel and
$377,000 for a skate park, among other major discretionary
expenditures. After seven years the BOS still hasn’t decided how
to keep quagga out of the lake, so we don’t know how the vast
majority of the $24 million tax will be spent, it could be for
automated ramp controls, highway check points or something
else, they’ll tell us after the election.

The BOS record on lake programs is poor-money spent on
useless studies, unneeded

boat decontamination machines bought and then sold at a loss,
and counterproductive

algae reduction efforts. We need a clear, fair, realistic plan before

JJ

increasing our tax burden, and need to make better use of
existing funds first.[2]

—Philip Murphy, a taxpayer advocate^]