★ ★★★★

ALL VOTERS CAN NOW VOTE	P006

IN THE PRIMARY ELECTION

STATEWIDE DIRECT PRIMARY ELECTION

TUESDAY, JUNE 3, 2014

Information for
POLLING PLACE VOTERS

Your polling place may have changed!

See the enclosed Voter Information Card for location.
POLLS OPEN AT 7:00 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8:00 P.M.

LAST DAY TO REGISTER TO VOTE FOR THIS ELECTION:

If you moved within the county on or before the date shown to the left and did not reregister to vote at your new
address, you may vote and register for future elections EITHER at the county elections office OR at the polling
place for your current address. If you moved AFTER the date shown, you may vote a vote by mail ballot or at the
polling place for your current or previous address for this election only. Then, you must reregister and vote at
your new address for future elections.

★

★

★

★

★

Can’t Make It To The Polls?

>	Vote by Mail - Complete and sign the enclosed application for vote by mail ballot and return it to the Elections Department not less than 7
days before the day of the election.

>	Vote at the Elections Department - Ballots will be available beginning May 5th through the close of the polls on Election Day.

> For further information: El Dorado County Elections Department PO Box 678001 Placerville CA 95667-8001 Or call (530) 621-7480	
NOTICE TO ALL VOTERS:  Any voter may request permanent vote by mail voter status. This means that you would automatically receive a vote by mail ballot for any election in which you are entitled to vote. You can remain a permanent vote by mail voter for as long as you wish. However, failure to return a voted ballot for four consecutive statewide general elections would cause your “permanent vote by mail voter” status to be canceled and you would have to vote at your local polling place or reapply for permanent vote by mail voter status. If you are interested, phone (530) 621-7480 for more information, or mark the PERMANENT VOTE BY MAIL option box on the vote by mail ballot application.	NOTICE TO VOTERS WITH DISABILITIES:  The polling place location block on the enclosed Voter Information Card indicates to the right of the disability icon if the polling place is accessible and/or usable by voters with disabilities. If your polling place is not accessible or useable, you may also consider the following options:  1.	A precinct board member may take a regular ballot to the person with the disability at an accessible place as near as possible to the polling place, including the voter’s car, qualify the person to vote, and return the voted ballot to the polling place; or  2.	Use the enclosed application and apply for a vote by mail ballot by the deadline; or  3.	Vote at the Elections Department located on the lower floor of Building C, 2850 Fairlane Court, Placerville: or  Call the Elections Department at (530) 621-7480 for further assistance or information about accessible polling locations.
LAST DAY TO REQUEST VOTE BY MAIL BALLOT:  To qualify for a vote by mail ballot you must:  13 Be a registered voter in the County. MAY H Make a separate request for each election.  M Sign your request in your own handwriting. 27 H Submit your request to the Elections Department no 9014 later that 5 p.m. on the date shown (the 7th day prior to ^ * ** Election Day).	
RETURNING YOUR VOTE BY MAIL BALLOT - Voted Vote by Mail ballots must be received in the Elections Department or at any polling place within the County not later than 8:00 p.m. on Election Day.	

Assistance to the Visually, Hearing or Speech Impaired

The Secretary of State’s Office has a TDD (Telecommunications Device for the Deaf) for registration and election information:
1-800-833-8683 (1-800-TDD-VOTE). The Elections Department has a TDD to provide election information: 530-642-9432.

09-PPV-P006

09PPVP006

INSTRUCTIONS TO PRECINCT VOTERS:

TO BEGIN VOTING ON PAPER BALLOT:

•	To vote, darken the oval m that appears to the left of your choice.

CORRECT: m	INCORRECT:	INCORRECT:	<3$

TO VOTE:

•	Use the pen provided at your polling place.

•	Vote for no more than the number of choices allowed in each contest.

•	To vote you must completely darken the oval next to the candidate or measure of your choice.

•	If you make a mistake in marking your ballot, do not try to correct it. Return the ballot to the
election officer and a replacement ballot will be issued. Do not attempt to erase or cross out the
choice after it has been made. Distinguishing marks are not allowed and may make the ballot
void. Election Law states “a voter shall not receive more than a total of three ballots, including the
original official ballot".

TO CAST YOUR BALLOT:

•	After making your selection(s) on the ballot, remove your stub and place your ballot in the secrecy
folder that was provided with your ballot.

•	Remove your ballot and deposit it in the Official Ballot Box.

•	You may request assistance from the election officer on the correct procedure.

•	Once your ballot has been deposited in the Official Ballot Box, you have cast your ballot.

•	Hand your secrecy folder and marking pen to the election officer in return for an “I Voted” sticker.

INSTRUCTIONS TO DISABLED VOTERS VOTING AT THE PRECINCT:

Disabled voters who wish to use the touchscreen voting device at the precinct will be issued a voter card
after signing the roster. To receive comprehensive instructions on the use of the touch screen machine,
and begin the voting process, follow these simple instructions:

Insert the voter access
card into the slot at
upper right side of the
screen, pushing the card
firmly until it clicks into
place.

The next screen
allows you to adjust
the magnification and
contrast of the screen
to increase readability.

If using the assistive listening
device, listen carefully to the
instructions on how to vote
your ballot using the keypad
and audio interface, or using
the touchscreen interface.

You may ask a poll worker for
assistance, if needed.

VOTE ON
JUNE 3, 2014

09-PPV-02

09PPV02

VOTER’S PAMPHLET INFORMATION SECTION

The following pages contain voter information applicable to your ballot which
may include any/all of the following items:

>	CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS

>	BALLOT MEASURES

>	ANALYSES

>	ARGUMENTS, FOR & AGAINST

This pamphlet section may not contain a statement for each candidate. A complete list of candidates
appears on the Ballot/Sample Ballot. Each candidate’s statement in this pamphlet is volunteered by the
candidate and is printed at the expense of the candidate unless otherwise determined by the governing
body. Each candidate’s statement is printed in uniform format exactly as submitted by the candidate.

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE
PROPOSED LAW ARE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

Prop. 34 - Expenditure Limitations: State Legislative Candidates

Proposition 34 was passed by voters in November 2000. The law requires county election officials to provide
the names of those State Legislative candidates who have voluntarily agreed to expenditure limits.
Candidates who agree to the expenditure limits may submit and pay for a Candidate’s Statement of
Qualification to be printed in this pamphlet.

The following State Legislative candidates appearing on ballots in El Dorado County have accepted the
voluntary expenditure limitations pursuant to Proposition 34.

5th State Assembly 6th State Assembly

Frank Bigelow, Republican	Beth	B.	Gaines, Republican

VOTE ON
ELECTION DAY!

09-VPI-01

INFORMATION FOR VOTERS  All voters can now vote in the June 3, 2014 Statewide Direct Primary Election, regardless of party preference.  About primaries in California  (The Top Two Candidates Open Primary)  The Primary is a nonpartisan election. This means the candidate is not nominated by the party. If the candidate has a preferred political party, the party name appears on the ballot for information only.  The election is held to nominate two candidates for voter-nominated offices. All the candidates appear on the ballot.  Any voter can vote for the candidate of their choice and the two candidates with the most votes will move on to the General Election.				
Party Endorsement				
Office	American Independent	Democratic	Green	Peace and Freedom
Governor	Tim Donnelly	Edmund G “Jerry” Brown	Luis J. Rodriguez	Cindy L Sheehan
Lt Governor	None	Gavin Newsom	Jena F. Goodman	Amos Johnson
Secretary of State	Pete Peterson	None	David Curtis	None
Controller	David Evans	None	Laura Wells	Laura Wells
Treasurer	None	John Chiang	Ellen H Brown	Ellen H Brown
Attorney General	Ronald Gold	Kamala D Harris	None	None
Insurance Commissioner	Ted Gaines	Dave Jones	None	Nathalie Hrizi
Board of Equalization 1st District	George Runner	Chris Parker	None	None
4th Congressional District	Tom McClintock	None	None	None
5th State Assembly	Frank Bigelow	None	None	None
6th State Assembly	Beth B Gaines	Brian Caples	None	None
	OPT OUT			
GET YOUR VOTER INFORMATION				
	PAMPHLET ONLINE			
	Go Green-			
	Go Paperless-			
	Red uce Costs			
It’s Fast, Convenient, Hassle Free, Timely,				
Paperless & Good for the Planet				
Go Green Today at:		www.edcgov.us/elections		

09-VPI-02

TOM McCLINTOCK

Occupation: United States Representative

Education and Qualifications: This election is not about parties
It is about policies that work and policies that don’t.

Our nation has enjoyed its greatest prosperity when it has known
its greatest freedom. We faced an equally depressing economy
during the Carter years, but then we elected Ronald Reagan. He
dramatically reduced the bureaucratic burdens and taxes that were
crushing American families and he produced one of the most
prosperous periods of our nation’s history.

During the last six years, we have done exactly the opposite with
exactly the opposite results. This administration made a lot of
promises that turned out to be untrue. As a result, our healthcare
system is in chaos, average household earnings have shrunk, our
constitutional rights are under siege, our national debt has doubled
and our children are in danger of becoming the first American
generation to be less well off than their parents.

You know where I stand. I have fought against these policies of
debt, doubt and despair. I have warned that this government has
grown too big and too powerful at the expense of hard-working
taxpayers. I have stood for restoring those uniquely American
principles of individual liberty, constitutionally limited government,
and personal responsibility that are the foundation of our nation’s
freedom, prosperity and happiness.

I am asking for your support to continue this work. You can read
more about my proposals at tommcclintock.com.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
U S REPRESENTATIVE - 4th DISTRICT

ARTHUR “ART” MOORE	AGE:	36

Occupation: Businessman/Military Officer

Education and Qualifications: I am running for Congress
because I have a life long calling to serve our great nation. I
served our country as an officer in the U.S. Army leading soldiers
in three overseas tours, including twice during Operation Iraqi
Freedom. I’ve worked as a business leader creating jobs through a
recession. I now wish to serve you by adding a new voice to
Congress and doing the hard work necessary to get this country
moving in the right direction.

We live in an era where the system is broken and only getting
worse - where career politicians believe that running up huge
deficits and then increasing taxes is good policy. They think the
solution to our challenges is massive government programs like
Obamacare.

I want to bring new vigor and dedication to the fight for an economy
that creates jobs, allows small businesses to thrive and defends
the right of individuals to make their own health care decisions.

Washington is bombarded by special interest voices and gridlocked
by entrenched politicians. We can do better. I will go to
Washington and make sure the voices of my constituents are
heard, and the best interests of the district are represented.

To learn more about my campaign, please visit
artmooreforcongress.com. America’s greatest days are still ahead
of us. It’s been my sacred honor to serve you in uniform and I
would be honored to have your vote and represent you during
these critical times for the region, our state and the nation.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
STATE ASSEMBLY, 5TH DISTRICT

FRANK BIGELOW	AGE:	59

Occupation: Rancher/Businessman/Assemblyman
Education and Qualifications: Two years ago, you put your trust
in me to protect taxpayers from Sacramento’s out-of-control
spending and to defend our way of life. Looking back on my first
term as your Assemblyman, it’s clear there are many problems left
to solve.

That’s why I’m once again asking for your trust to continue our fight
for a stronger economy and a smaller state government with a
meaningful rainy day reserve.

By now it’s clear that the politicians’ budget priorities this year
include spending away our state surplus - and your tax dollars -
on social programs that won’t create one job in California let alone
our community. Our region’s unemployment rate is higher than the
rest of California and we must do something about the 19,000
neighbors without work in our community.

To do that, I’ll continue to work to end partisan gridlock by working
with both Democrats and Republicans on policies that not only
create new jobs, but also keep and retain the ones we have from
being lost to states like Texas and Nevada.

Like you, I’m tired of reading news stories about local companies
closing their doors or laying off workers. We’ll create those jobs by
reducing regulations that stifle construction projects in our
community, and we’ll keep them by reducing the cost of doing
business in California.

I’d be honored with your trust and your vote to continue our fight for
local jobs, lower taxes, a smaller, more efficient state government,
and to end partisan gridlock.
www.frankbigelow.com

09-502

09502

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
SUPERIOR COURT JUDGE, OFFICE 1

VICKI ASHWORTH

AGE: 44

DAVID W. COMBELLACK

Occupation: El Dorado County Deputy District Attorney

Education and Qualifications: As a veteran prosecutor in El
Dorado County, my commitment to you is to maintain the integrity
of our courts, and safety and security for all citizens in El Dorado
County. My priorities are simple: be fair and impartial in reaching
just decisions while maintaining an efficient courtroom.

Local judges, our District Attorney, deputies, and defense attorneys
stand with me. They’re confident that I’ll be fair, knowledgeable
and decisive, given my record as a Deputy District Attorney who
has consistently adhered to the law and protected victims’ rights.

For more than 16 years, I’ve successfully handled thousands of
criminal cases including murder, gangs, sexual predators, fraud,
domestic violence, and elder abuse.

I’ve also worked closely with many law enforcement and social-
service agencies that contribute to just decisions in the courtroom.

ENDORSEMENTS: El Dorado County Superior Court Judges, El
Dorado County Deputy Sheriff’s Association, El Dorado County
District Attorney Vern Pierson, retired El Dorado County Sheriff Hal
Barker, local and regional law enforcement and community
leaders, California Correctional Supervisors Organization, criminal
investigators, firefighters, attorneys, teachers, and citizens across
our county.

EDUCATION: Juris Doctor degree, McGeorge School of Law.

I respectfully ask for your vote on June 3.

Visit www.ashworth4judge.com

Occupation: Attorney/Small Business Owner

Education and Qualifications: I have lived in El Dorado County
my entire life. With my wife of 23 years, Susan, we raised our
children here. My legal career is in private practice handling
almost every kind of case including representation of the Sheriff as
Public Administrator. As an owner of a small professional office, I
understand running a small business.

Volunteering for this community is my life including service on the
South Fork American River Council (past president), Board of
Directors for Marshall Hospital (past president), Rotary (past
president), El Dorado Community Foundation, Judge and mentor
for Teen Court from inception.

Professional volunteer activities included President, El Dorado
County Bar Association; Judge Pro Tern helping settle civil cases
through mediation to avoid court delays.

Committed and decisive, I will decide cases based on the facts and
applicable law in accord with the Constitution. Each party will get a
fair hearing and prompt decision. In criminal matters, public safety
must be paramount.

My experience, dedication and community service make me the
most qualified candidate for Superior Court Judge.

To learn more, visit www.combellack4judge2014.com

Graduate, UC Davis; Juris Doctor, McGeorge School of Law and
admitted to State Bar of California in 1975.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR	DECLARACION	DEL	CANDIDATO	PARA

SUPERIOR COURT JUDGE, OFFICE 1	JUEZ	DE	LA	CORTE	SUPERIOR,	CARGO	1

JOE WEINBERGER	AGE: 50

Occupation: Attorney, Judge Pro Tern, Business Owner

Education and Qualifications: Joe Weinberger: The conservative
choice for El Dorado County Superior Judge.

El Dorado County deserves judges who are fair, honest and
experienced. Just as important, our citizens need conservative
jurists who are free from the influence of special interests.

As an attorney for the past 25 years, I have represented clients in
civil suits, real estate, trusts, bankruptcy and family law matters.
For over 15 years I’ve volunteered as a Judge Pro Tern in El
Dorado, Placer and Sacramento Counties. From handling multi-
million dollar jury trials to arguing complex appellate cases, I
understand how the Court functions and how important our judicial
system is to our way of life.

I will bring my real-world experience as a business owner to the
bench and will work to develop and implement processes that
respect and conserve your hard-earned tax dollars.

I believe strongly that judges should remain free from the influence
of outside special interests. As an El Dorado County Superior
Court Judge, I will work tirelessly to hear both sides of every case
and to protect our family values and fundamental rights.

I ask for your vote on June 3. Thank you.
www.weinberger4judge.com

DAVID W. COMBELLACK

Ocupacion: Abogado/Propietario de Pequena Empresa

Educacion y Curriculum Vitae: He vivido en el Condado de El
Dorado toda mi vida. Con mi esposa desde hace 23 anos, Susan,
hemos criado a nuestros hijos aqui. Mi camera legal es en la
practica privada manejando casi todo tipo de casos incluyendo
representation del Alguacil como Administrador Publico. Como
propietario de una pequena oficina profesional, comprendo lo que
es manejar una pequena empresa.

El voluntariado para esta comunidad es mi vida incluyendo servicio
en el Consejo de South Fork American River (ex presidente), Junta
Directiva para el Hospital Marshall (ex presidente), Rotary (ex
presidente), Fundacion Comunitaria El Dorado, Juez y mentor para
la Corte Juvenil desde el inicio.

Las actividades como voluntario profesional incluyen Presidente,
Asociacion de Abogados del Condado de El Dorado; Juez Interino
ayudando a cerrar casos civiles por medio de la mediation para
evitar las demoras judiciales.

Comprometido y decisivo, decidire casos sobre la base de los
hechos y la ley aplicable en conformidad con la Constitution.
Cada parte obtendra una audiencia justa y una decision rapida.
En los asuntos penales, la seguridad publica debe ser primordial.

Mi experiencia, dedication y servicio comunitario me convierten en
el candidato mas calificado para Juez de la Corte Superior.

Para mas information, visite www.combellack4judge2014.com

Graduado, UC Davis; Doctor Jurista, Escuela de Leyes McGeorge
y admitido en el Colegio de Abogados del Estado de California en
1975.

09-503

09503

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR SUPERIOR COURT JUDGE, OFFICE 5  JOSEPH HOFFMAN AGE: 45  Occupation: Attorney, Small-business Owner  Education and Qualifications: My first priority as judge will be to keep El Dorado County a safe place to live, work and play.  As a practicing attorney for 19 years, and as a volunteer judge pro tem since 2001, 1 have the experience to make tough, good decisions to fight crime and protect victims.  I’m endorsed by many judges, attorneys and deputies who know that 1 will be fair, respect citizens’ constitutional rights, and not legislate from the bench.  1 will protect victims’ rights, impose strict consequences on those who break the law, and make prompt decisions to ease our backlogged judicial system.  As a business owner and taxpayer, 1 value an efficient judicial process that respects peoples’ time and finances, and your tax dollars.  El Dorado County has been home for years, and serving as Judge would be one way for me to give back to the community where my wife, Sheri, and 1 raise our family.  Education: Juris Doctor degree, Golden Gate University School of Law, 1994; and Bachelor of Arts degree, U.C. Davis, 1991.  California State Bar exam: Passed on first attempt.  Endorsed by Deputy Sheriff’s Association, Judges Proud and Phimister and community leaders.  1 would be honored to earn your vote on June 3. www.hoffman4judge.com	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR SUPERIOR COURT JUDGE, OFFICE 5  DYLAN SULLIVAN AGE: 48  Occupation: Superior Court Commissioner, Judge Pro Tempore  Education and Qualifications: As your current Superior Court Commissioner, 1 am one of your full-time judicial officers and hear many cases with the same authority and responsibility as our judges. 1 am honored 7 of our 8 sitting Judges endorse me, including our Presiding and Assistant Presiding Judges.  1 am running for judge because I’m dedicated to our children in crises and 1 know how to protect your family’s safety.  My experience as a judicial officer for over nine years taught me to make tough decisions. As a Deputy Commissioner on the California Parole Board, 1 made decisions regarding some of the most hardened, dangerous criminals. 1 understand the complexities of criminal law and the criminal mindset - essential for a new criminal Judge.  1 proudly honor our Constitution and 2nd Amendment, apply the laws as written, never legislate from the bench, listen to, and respect those who come into my courtroom.  1 teach judges across California. 1 teach judicial ethics, courtroom demeanor, case law updates and criminal justice realignment.  Judges throughout California, the South Lake Tahoe Peace Officers Association, law enforcement officials, victim advocates, attorneys, community leaders, and court personnel endorse me.  Please visit: www.DylanSullivan4Judge.com.  1 respectfully ask for your vote. Thank you.
	

09504

KEVIN BROWN	AGE:	50

Occupation: Business Owner

Education and Qualifications: As a 16 year business owner and
Civic Leader, I realize the only way to reach our full potential is by
working together. I am running for Supervisor to unite our region to
achieve our desired goals of a thriving economy, safe communities,
and protecting our district’s pristine lakes, forests and rural
communities.

Being a community advocate, school board member, and business
owner, I have learned that if we unite together and embrace bold
solutions we can strengthen our communities. During my tenure on
the El Dorado Union High School Board we had a balanced budget
while enhancing our schools and helping our teachers. We
prioritized needs over wants. I will bring this same fiscal restraint to
our board of supervisors.

I have led or been a member of many organizations in our
community including Kiwanis, County Chamber of Commerce,
EDC Child Abuse Prevention Council, Boy Scout Leader, Big
Brothers/Big Sisters, Past Master Hiram Lodge and multiple county
economic development advisory committees. If elected I will use
the knowledge I gained to forge public-private partnerships with a
range of business, philanthropic and nonprofit organizations
through initiatives and other community efforts.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
SUPERVISOR, 5TH DISTRICT

KENNY CURTZWILER	AGE:	57

Occupation:	Contractor/Retired Major Nevada Army National

Guard - NVARNG

Education and Qualifications: I have lived, worked and enjoyed
South Lake Tahoe as a resident since 1977 when I came here for a
vacation and stayed on as so many have. What makes me
qualified for this position? Commitment. I have been married for
33 years, raised three children, owned a Tree Service and Roofing
Company for 33 years and served for 20 years in the Nevada Army
National Guard where I retired a Major. At age 37 I completed Air
Assault school and at age 44 completed the Marine Winter Warfare
Mountain Leader Instructor’s course. Accountability. I have written
an article as The Skibum for 18 years about what is happening in
our community and the one thing I have always questioned is the
accountability of our local agencies. Involvement. I am very active
in our community both personally and professionally through my
company where we provide labor, monetary donations and
services to all local community fundraisers and events. It is about
time I stepped out from behind my SKIBUM license plate and I am
asking for your vote of confidence, trust and accountability in
seeking the position of Supervisor District V in El Dorado County.
Think globally and act locally.

Please visit www.BrownforFive.com. I ask for your vote.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
SUPERVISOR, 5TH DISTRICT

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
SUPERVISOR, 5TH DISTRICT

GERRIGREGO	AGE:	62

Occupation: Businesswoman

Education and Qualifications: As your county Supervisor, I
commit to protecting your taxpayers’ dollars and being responsive
to you and your community.

I understand how to run a successful business as I have been
doing so for 16 years. I know how to balance a budget and live
within it, solve problems with governmental and regulatory
agencies, and work with people with competing concerns.

As a community leader, I bring my experience as past city General
Plan member and Planning Commissioner. Currently, I am a
Commissioner on the El Dorado County Commission on Aging.

I have been a resident of the District 5 for 33 years, serving the
Tahoe community in a variety of ways. With District 5 joining
Pollock Pines and Lake Tahoe, I have met many Pollock Pine
residents, and have attended many of your events, to better
understand you community’s needs.

We all want good roads, to prosper economically, and have
responsive, honest elected officials.

As your Supervisor, I will run District 5 like a business on a budget,
protect your taxes and resources, and have an open door policy to
hear your concerns. I will serve you with integrity, responsiveness
and innovation.

I respectfully ask for your vote. Thank you.

SUENOVASEL	AGE: 58

Occupation: Business Ower/School Board Member

Education and Qualifications: Our community is a special place.
That’s why I’m running for the office of Supervisor. I have lived in
South Lake Tahoe for over 35 years. I am a businesswoman,
married, and have raised two daughters. I have served for 10
years as an elected school board member for Lake Tahoe Unified
School District and as Chair for Meyers Roundtable Committee - I
know that experience matters.

I care deeply for our community and want to ensure our way of life
is protected, valued, and improved upon. I believe in strong
leadership, fiscal responsibility, supporting public safety and
strengthening our economy while protecting the environment.

I have served my community in various capacities, including work
on Lakeview Commons project and TRPA’s Pathway 2007.
Currently, I am President of Soroptimist International of South Lake
Tahoe, Vice President of Lake Tahoe Wildlife Care and Secretary
of South Lake Tahoe Wedding & Honeymoon Association. I also
serve on the Tahoe Chamber of Commerce board and Barton
Foundation’s Community Advisory Committee.

If elected, I will be a full time Supervisor to District V. You have my
sincere commitment to bring strength, transparency and leadership
to our community. Your voice matters and I would be honored to
have your vote.

09-508

09508

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
SUPERVISOR, 5TH DISTRICT

TERESA ANN PIPER

Occupation: Pollock Pines/South Lake Tahoe Resident

Education and Qualifications: District 5 is my home. Having
lived in Pollock Pines most of my life and having a home in South
Lake Tahoe, I know this District.

I lived the glory days of Pollock Pines and South Lake Tahoe when
Michigan-Cal Lumber Mill and casinos were in full force and
employment was plenty. I saw the drastic effects of the late 70’s
drought and when Highway 50 was closed for months by a huge
mud slide.

With my leadership, strong research and problem-solving skills, I
will work to restore our water origin rights to protect our recreation
and agriculture, keep Highway 50 scenic yet improve services to
attract more tourism dollars, and work to revitalize employment
opportunities. With my tenacity and vision, these ideas can
become reality.

I worked for a casino, the county and private business. Now
everyday at work in a local supermarket, customers share their
cares and concerns for their children, homes, jobs, and
communities. As Supervisor, I will provide strong representation
for these individuals and you.

I will work diligently to represent the residents of District 5 for the
greater good of all.

I respectfully ask for your vote. Thank you.
t-piper@comcast.net 530-647-2511
piperforsupervisor.com

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
SUPERVISOR, 5TH DISTRICT

ANGELA SWANSON

Occupation: City Council Member

Education and Qualifications: Tahoe and Pollock Pines are
gorgeous, special places. We are active, engaged, vibrant
communities; it’s time we demand more from county government.
We’ve had local successes. We know we can reach further. We’re
done being the County’s afterthought.

We can become that unique destination which shares distinctive
town centers with protected natural wonders and outdoor
opportunities. It’s time to focus on building a robust healthy
economic base and restoring local pride. From our rutted roads to
our inadequate broadband coverage to jobs creation, we expect
county government’s attention and action.

I take pride in our collaborative hard work which resulted in the
$64.5 million school bond and $33 million in grants necessary to
create an amazing school district. As your council member I
helped to spearhead the revitalization of Lakeview Commons.
We’re now a local government that listens and encourages civic
engagement. I’m a mother, neighbor and a pair of hands in times
of need, and I’ll continue to protect our children and families.

I humbly ask for your vote - I can bring your voice, our
effectiveness, and my passion to all of District 5 and the Board of
Supervisors.

It’s time to get the job done.
www.voteangelaswanson.com

09-509

09509

DECLARACION DEL CANDIDATO PARA SUPERVISOR, DISTRITO 5  KEVIN BROWN EDAD: 50  Ocupacion: Propietario de Negocio  Educacion y Curriculum Vitae: Como propietario de negocio desde hace 16 anos y Lider Civico, se que la unica manera de alcanzar nuestro maximo potencial es trabajando juntos. Me estoy postulando para Supervisor para unir nuestra region a fin de lograr nuestras metas deseadas de una econonma pujante, comunidades seguras, y proteger los pristinos lagos, bosques y comunidades rurales de nuestro distrito.  Siendo un defensor de la comunidad, miembro de la junta escolar, y propietario de negocio, he aprendido que si nos aliamos y adoptamos soluciones audaces podemos fortalecer nuestras comunidades. Durante mi mandato en la Junta Escolar de la Secundaria El Dorado Union tuvimos un presupuesto equilibrado al mismo tiempo que mejoramos nuestras escuelas y ayudamos a nuestros maestros. Priorizamos las necesidades sobre los deseos. Aportare este mismo control fiscal a nuestra junta de supervisors.  He liderado o he sido miembro de muchas organizaciones en nuestra comunidad incluyendo Kiwanis, Camara de Comercio del Condado, Consejo de Prevention de Abuso Infantil de EDC, Lider de Ninos Exploradores, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, Ex Maestro de Hiram Lodge y multiples comites consultivos de desarrollo economico del condado. Si soy electo usare el conocimiento que adquiri para forjar asociaciones publico-privadas con una variedad de negocios, organizaciones filantropicas y sin fines de lucro a traves de iniciativas y otros esfuerzos comunitarios.  Por favor visite www.BrownforFive.com. Pido su voto.	DECLARACION DE LA CANDIDATA PARA SUPERVISORA, DISTRITO 5  GERRIGREGO EDAD: 62  Ocupacion: Mujerde Negocios  Educacion y Curriculum Vitae: Como su Supervisor del condado, me comprometo a proteger sus dolares de impuestos y ser receptiva para con usted y su comunidad.  Comprendo como manejar un negocio exitoso debido a que lo he estado haciendo durante 16 anos. Se como equilibrar un presupuesto y vivir dentro de el, resolver problemas con las agendas gubernamentales y regulatorias, y trabajar con personas con preocupaciones opuestas.  Como lider de la comunidad, aporto mi experiencia como ex miembro del Plan General de la ciudad y Comisionada de Planificacion. Actualmente, soy Comisionada de la Comision de Ancianos del Condado de El Dorado.  He sido residente del Distrito 5 durante 33 anos, sirviendo a la comunidad de Tahoe de diferentes maneras. Con la union del Distrito 5 a Pollock Pines y Lake Tahoe, he conocido a muchos residentes de Pollock Pine, y he asistido a muchos de sus eventos, a fin de comprender mejor las necesidades de su comunidad.  Todos queremos buenas carreteras, prosperar economicamente, y tener funcionarios electos receptivos, honestos.  Como su Supervisor, manejare al Distrito 5 como un negocio con un presupuesto, protegere sus impuestos y recursos, y tendre una politica de puertas abiertas para escuchar sus preocupaciones. Le prestare servido con integridad, receptividad e innovation.  Respetuosamente pido su voto. Gracias.
DECLARACION DE LA CANDIDATA PARA SUPERVISORA, DISTRITO 5  SUENOVASEL EDAD: 58  Ocupacion: Propietaria de Negocio/Miembro de la Junta Escolar  Educacion y Curriculum Vitae: Nuestra comunidad es un lugar especial. Es por eso que estoy postulandome para el cargo de Supervisor. He vivido en el Sur de Lake Tahoe por mas de 35 anos. Soy una mujerde negocios, casada, y he criado a dos hijas. He servido durante 10 anos como miembro electa de la junta escolar para el Distrito Escolar Unificado de Lake Tahoe y como Presidenta para el Comite de la Mesa Redonda de Meyers - se que esa experiencia si importa.  Me preocupa profundamente nuestra comunidad y quiero garantizar que nuestra forma de vida sea protegida, valorada, y mejorada. Creo en un fuerte liderazgo, la responsabilidad fiscal, el apoyo a la seguridad publica y el fortalecimiento de nuestra economia al mismo tiempo que protegemos el medio ambiente.  He servido a mi comunidad en diferentes capacidades, incluyendo trabajo en el proyecto de Lakeview Commons y Pathway 2007 de la TRPA. Actualmente, soy Presidenta de Soroptimist International del Sur de Lake Tahoe, Vicepresidenta de Cuidado de la Vida Silvestre de Lake Tahoe y Secretaria de la Asociacion de Matrimonio y Luna de Miel del Sur de Lake Tahoe. Tambien presto servido en la junta de la Camara de Comercio de Tahoe y en el Comite Consultivo de la Comunidad de la Fundacion Barton.  Si soy electa, sere una Supervisor del Distrito V a tiempo completo. Usted cuenta con mi sincero compromiso de aportar fortaleza, transparencia y liderazgo a nuestra comunidad. Su voz importa y estaria honrada de contar con su voto.	DECLARACION DE LA CANDIDATA PARA SUPERVISORA, DISTRITO 5  ANGELA SWANSON  Ocupacion: Miembro del Concejo Municipal  Educacion y Curriculum Vitae: Tahoe y Pollock Pines son lugares preciosos, especiales. Somos comunidades activas, involucradas, vibrantes; es hora de exigir mas de nuestro gobierno del condado. Hemos tenido exitos locales. Sabemos que podemos llegar mas alia. Estamos cansados de no ser una prioridad para el Condado.  Podemos convertirnos en ese destino unico que comparte peculiares centros comerciales con maravillas naturales protegidas y oportunidades para el aire libre. Es hora de concentrarnos en construir una solida base economica saludable y restaurar el orgullo local. Desde nuestras carreteras llenas de baches a nuestra cobertura de banda ancha inadecuada hasta la creation de empleos, esperamos la atencion y action del gobierno del condado.  Me enorgullezco de nuestro duro trabajo de colaboracion que resulto en el bono escolar de $64.5 millones y $33 millones en subsidios necesarios para crear un maravilloso distrito escolar. Como su miembro del concejo ayude a iniciar la renovation de Lakeview Commons. Ahora somos un gobierno local que escucha y alienta la participation tivica. Soy madre, vecina y un par de manos en tiempos de necesidad, y continuare protegiendo a nuestros ninos y familias.  Pido humildemente su voto - puedo traer su voz, nuestra eficacia, y mi pasion a todo el Distrito 5 y a la Junta de Supervisors.  Es hora de que se hagan las cosas.  www.voteangelaswanson.com

09-510

09510

JOE HARN	AGE:	56

Occupation: El Dorado County Auditor-Controller, CPA

Education and Qualifications: My top priorities are to continue
protecting your tax dollars and ensuring our county stays debt-free.

When I was first elected your Auditor-Controller, El Dorado County
was $20 million in debt and our general fund was strapped with a
negative cash balance. Today, our county has NO DEBT, and we
closed the most recent fiscal year with a positive general fund cash
balance of $54 million.

I’ve strongly opposed reckless spending and borrowing. The
County Grand Jury commended my refusal to pay a consulting firm
that violated its county contract; my action saved taxpayers more
than $700,000.

I’ve stopped special interests from convincing the Board of
Supervisors to adopt the most expensive Cadillac retirement plans
plaguing nearby government agencies.

Without reservation, I’ve insisted that big, out-of-county real estate
developers pay their fair share of road improvements and libraries
- or go develop elsewhere.

I recently pushed for the reduction of your DMV fees by advising
the Board of Supervisors that the county’s share of the DMV
should be reduced. It was.

I respectfully ask for your vote.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
AUDITOR-CONTROLLER

MICHAEL L. OWEN, CPA	AGE:	52

Occupation: Winemaker & Businessman

Education and Qualifications: I am is Mike Owen, CPA. I want
to lead El Dorado County’s financial future Auditor-Controller. My
roots in the county began in 1976. I am an extensively
experienced CPA from high-tech and medical device companies. I
own a successful small business in Camino. I object to our highly
paid 18 year incumbent responsible for guarding El Dorado
County’s finances. For 18 years, voters have been denied a
choice for Auditor-Controller, as the incumbent has never been
challenged.

I’ve audited notable companies including Apple, Cisco and Ford
Aerospace. I’ve successfully led a public stock offering. I’ve led
complex system conversions similar to our County’s planned
transition from the existing DOS-based finance system. Our
County managers lack experience in this potentially costly area. I’ll
bring an open and respectful management style to the Auditor-
Controller role for the benefit of citizens, County employees and
stakeholders.

Our County is changing rapidly. What worked 18 years ago is not
effective today. Small businesses are often paid late by our
County due to the business practices of our incumbent. It’s time
for integrity, new ideas and transparency for our Auditor-Controller.
Please vote Mike Owen, CPA for your next El Dorado County
Auditor-Controller on June 3rd.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
DISTRICT ATTORNEY

VERN PIERSON	AGE:	50

Occupation: El Dorado County District Attorney

Education and Qualifications: Vern Pierson has been a criminal
prosecutor for over 20 years, and has been privileged to serve the
people of El Dorado County as your elected District Attorney for the
past seven. During his career, he has prosecuted hundreds of
cases, including violent career criminals and sex offenders. Vern
wrote the statute which forever barred sex offenders from working
in our classrooms.

As your elected DA, Vern continues to handle cases, including the
successful prosecution of a defendant who murdered a CHP
Officer, and the prosecution of the Garridos for their 1991
abduction of Jaycee Dugard. He also started a successful cold-
case homicide unit, created one of the first paperless district
attorney’s offices, and recently formed a regional economic crimes
task force.

Vern began his public service in the Army’s 101st Airborne, and
was the recipient of the Army Commendation and Achievement
Medals. He is an active volunteer for programs that help children
and veterans, including Big Brothers Big Sisters and CASA. Vern
currently lives in El Dorado Hills with his wife Cyndee, and has
raised three children here - two who are currently in the Army’s
82nd Airborne following in their father’s path of service to his
country.

09-511

09511

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR SHERIFF-CORONER-PUBLIC ADMINISTRATOR  JOHN D’AGOSTINI  Occupation: Sheriff-Coroner-Public Administrator  Education and Qualifications: As your Sheriff 1 am responsible for many law enforcement and service functions, including patrol, investigations, corrections, civil, coroner, dispatch and public administrator with a budget of 58 million dollars and 405 employees. The last several years have been difficult financial times. As a team we have audited every section of the Sheriffs Office to identify duplication, waste and areas where we can improve financially. We have instituted many innovative and creative management solutions resulting in multi-million dollar surpluses being returned to the County, all while increasing staffing and services to our communities.  My primary focus has been building trust and positive relationships in the communities we served. We have implemented the Total Policing Strategy which is; “Total Enforcement on crime and criminals, Total Care for victims, witnesses, and the community, and Total Professionalism through training and by example.” 1 have committed myself to respecting the Constitution and our Second Amendment rights.  1 am proud of the accomplishments of the men and women of your Sherriffs Office and the services we provide. Please remember - we work for you. 1 look forward to continuing my service to you, and 1 ask for your vote.	
STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR RECORDER-CLERK  CHRIS AMARAL  Occupation: Businessman/Program Management  Education and Qualifications: After twenty years of business as usual, it is time for a change. 1 spent the early part of my career in leadership positions in finance, accounting, and operations for medium to large corporations. 1 have spent the better part of my recent career partnering with government agencies in an effort to automate manual processes and implement effective technology solutions. This unique combination of experiences will translate well towards accomplishing the objectives and goals of the Recorder-Clerk of El Dorado County.  1 believe that government officials have the responsibility to be transparent, fiscally responsible, and to instill sensible business policies to reduce bureaucracy and promote public confidence. If elected, 1 will enhance our systems and processes to better serve the county and its citizens. 1 will ensure the department excels both from a customer service aspect, in the true spirit of the civil servant, while operating in an efficient manner to maximize county revenue.  Please just remember:  1 am the candidate with recent private and public sector experience.  1 am the candidate with the necessary education and technical background to move this department into the 21st century.  1 respectfully ask for your vote.  www.votechrisamaral.com	STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR RECORDER-CLERK  WILLIAM E. “BILL” SCHULTZ  Occupation: El Dorado County Recorder-Clerk  Education and Qualifications: 1 have served as County Recorder-Clerk since 1995, the official keeper of the public record.  1 have made an index of all recorded documents available at the office website, www.edcgov.us/countyclerk which has been recognized for content, design and interactivity.  As a revenue generating department, 1 have a strong sense of responsibility to efficiently collect all recording fees and taxes for deposit to the general fund.  County Clerk functions are performed at both the South Lake Tahoe and Placerville offices. Documents are recorded at the Placerville office. 1 have recently installed a fully electronic recording system for documents which will save time and money for the public and enhance the efficiency of the office and recording function.  1 was appointed Registrar of Voters for County Elections in 2004 and 1 have successfully conducted 35 elections to date. The integrity, safety and accuracy of our election process is my number one priority.  1 look forward to serving our county for the next four years. 1 am a proud veteran of the U.S. Navy and currently serve as the Interim Director of the County Department of Veteran Affairs.  1 promise to continue to serve with integrity and efficiency. 1 ask for your vote.

09-512

09512

RON BRIGGS	AGE:	56

Occupation: County Supervisor Organic Farmer

Education and Qualifications: “Keep Us Rural” and “conservative
fiscal management” have guided my decisions as County
Supervisor, and will as Treasurer.

As supervisor, I opposed new and higher taxes, balanced every
county budget with NO gimmicks, and paid off all county debts -
ZERO debt.

We also ended “pay enhancements” which spiked the pay of some
county executives, including the current Treasurer, and other
officers - - saving county taxpayers millions of dollars.

To control growth, we passed an extension of Measure Y as well
as a general plan update to make new development pay the cost of
transportation improvements and keep new development out of
rural agriculture lands.

I also fought hard to dedicate new revenue to road improvements
and maintenance.

As Treasurer, I will be the #1 advocate for taxpayers. I will oppose
higher taxes, protect Proposition 13, and stop pay manipulation
and pension spiking by elected officials. I will focus on better
managing the county’s financial resources and be a watchdog for
taxpayers.

I welcome your support.

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
TREASURER - TAX COLLECTOR

C.L. RAFFETY

Occupation: El Dorado County Treasurer-Tax Collector, CPA

Education and Qualifications: Successful Certified Public
Accountant, Treasurer-Tax Collector, Master’s Degree in Business
Administration, Bachelor of Science - Accounting, Treasury
Management Certificate - USC., Elected 2 terms Los Rios
Community College Trustee, Past President Statewide Treasurer-
Tax Collectors’ Association.

The job of Treasurer is a critical one. It takes technical knowledge
to account for and keep safe $1+ billion annually. By using my
years of private sector experience as a Certified Public Accountant
and tackling complex issues, I doubled the interest earnings in my
first few years in office, while preserving the safety of the portfolio
and maintaining cash flow, (liquidity,) for the County to pay its bills.

I’ve improved internal controls by creating checks and balances
and I’ve continually improved electronic processes to save
taxpayers millions of dollars.

The Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Staff is well trained and courteous.
We are complimented often for going the extra mile to be helpful to
the public. In addition, the office team works hard to constantly
improve business practices and our service to the public.

I respectfully ask for your vote to retain C. L. Raffety, CPA,
Treasurer-Tax Collector.

09-513

09513

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P

CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-9

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE, CALIFORNIA, CALLING AN ELECTION FOR
THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS A MEASURE WHICH WOULD REPEAL ORDINANCE NUMBERS 1049, 1051
AND 1054 REGARDING PARKING IN THE CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE; AND REQUESTING THE EL DORADO COUNTY
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS TO CONSOLIDATE SAID ELECTION WITH THE JUNE 3, 2014 STATEWIDE DIRECT PRIMARY
ELECTION

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of South Lake Tahoe was presented with a proposed initiative petition by proponents against
the paid parking program; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the parking initiative as certified is legally flawed; and

WHEREAS, the City Council believes that the voters should be provided an opportunity to determine the continuation or repeal of the
paid parking program; and

WHEREAS, Election Code Section 9222 allows the City Council to place a proposed measure for repeal of any ordinance before the
voters at their discretion; and

WHEREAS, under the provisions of the laws relating to general law cities in the State of California, there has been called and ordered
a Statewide Direct Primary Election to be held on June 3, 2014.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of South Lake Tahoe does hereby resolve, declare, determine, and order as follows:
Section 1. Pursuant to the laws of the State of California relating to General Law Cities, there is called and ordered to be held
in the City of South Lake Tahoe, County of El Dorado, a Statewide Direct Primary Election on Tuesday, June 3, 2014 for the
purpose of submitting to the voters a measure which would repeal Ordinance Numbers 1049, 1051 and 1054 regarding
Parking in the City of South Lake Tahoe as follows:

“Shall the City of South Lake Tahoe repeal the paid parking program
consisting of Ordinance Numbers 1049,1051 and 1054,
which repeal shall be effective August 31, 2014?”

Section 1. The measure shall be effective if approved by a majority of the electorate.

Section 2. The Board of Supervisors of the County of El Dorado is hereby requested to approve consolidation of said election
with the Statewide Direct Primary Election to be held on June 3, 2014.

Section 3. The City Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the El Dorado County Recorder Clerk-
Elections Division.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE CITY ATTORNEY - MEASURE P

A PROPOSITION DETERMINING WHETHER THE CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE
CONTINUES THE PAID PARKING PROGRAM

Beginning in 2012, the City Council of the City of South Lake Tahoe determined it would adopt paid parking as a funding source for
infrastructure and maintenance of various areas within the City limits. This determination was made in light of the limited financial
resources available to the City for maintenance of highly utilized prime parking locations.

The City Council unanimously agreed to place Measure P before the voters to provide an opportunity for the voters to determine if paid
parking should be a funding source for maintenance and operations. If Measure P is approved by the voters, the City would remove the
paid parking kiosks and residential parking restrictions from the parking lots at Lakeview Commons, Boat Ramp, Lakeshore Drive and
the surrounding neighborhoods. Other areas which previously had paid parking have already been eliminated by the City Council,
including Venice Boulevard and Paradise Avenue.

This proposition does not remove paid parking on Transit Way or Bellamy Court or from the Parking Garage, which will continue. This
proposition does not eliminate parking tickets for vehicle code or municipal code violations. This proposition does not eliminate the
parking management program of the City, it removes the parking kiosks, residential restrictions and revenue derived from the parking
kiosks.

Financial Impact

The paid parking kiosks were installed and have only been operational for a part of year at the time of this writing. Between June/July of
2013 and December 2013. over 60,000 parking transactions have occurred at parking kiosks, resulting in net parking meter revenue of
approximately $200,000.00 during that same time, for an average of $3.00 per transaction. The expenses attributable to the operation of
the kiosks are very small, specifically paper and electricity to run the equipment. The City's major expenses of the parking management
program, primarily personnel costs, are not reduced by this proposition.

The City currently owes $191,000.00 for the purchase of the parking kiosks. If Measure P is approved, the $191,000.00 would be
required to be repaid from general fund revenue, rather than parking fund revenues. If this measure passes, the City will also lose
annual budgeted revenue in the estimated amount of approximately $300,000.00.

Effect of the Measure

Measure P would specifically repeal the three Ordinances that authorized the use of paid parking kiosks: Ordinance Numbers 1049,
1051 and 1054. A “Yes” vote on Measure P is a vote to repeal the Ordinances authorizing paid parking, effective August 31, 2014. A
“No” vote is a vote to continue the paid parking program, allowing the City to continue to receive revenue from the parking kiosks. If the
measure receives a majority of “Yes” votes, it will be approved and the parking kiosks along with the associated revenue from those
areas will be eliminated.

09-601

09601

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Vote YES to REMOVE PARKING METERS. Let’s take back our beaches and streets.

The Tahoe 4 Tahoe Committee and the 1422 voters that signed the petition caused the City Council to vote unanimously to place
Measure P on the ballot. If approved, Measure P would rescind three ordinances passed by the City Council which established paid
parking at Lakeview Commons, Venice Drive, Lakeside Beach and Paradise Avenue.

We feel that the paid parking program causes too many problems. Nearly half of the revenue from the parking program comes
from parking tickets. The paid parking program creates an unwelcome environment for our visitors, upon whom our economy depends,
and discourages use by most locals. Local businesses suffer because customers patronize other areas where parking is free.
Neighborhoods adjacent to paid parking areas now have restrictive parking where residents must obtain permits to park in front of their
own homes!

Despite the City’s claims, the paid parking program has been a failure. Not only have the capital investments for acquiring parking
meter equipment and signs been expensive, but the ongoing costs, including hiring additional public employees as parking police, will
continue to cause long term burdens to our city budget. Also, the impact on our businesses and visitors has not been considered in the
City’s budget and fiscal impact calculations.

This program is not for our Community. It is an inconvenient and negative tax for residents and tourists alike, It changes the character
of our neighborhoods and community. And most importantly, if paid parking is not stopped, it encourages further expansion into
every commercial area and every neighborhood. A “YES” vote will eliminate all paid parking areas established by the City since
December 2012.

STAND-UP South Lake Tahoe and VOTE “YES” to REMOVE PARKING METERS.

Peggy A. Bourland
John N. Cefalu
John J. Grace
Bruce Grego

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

ARGUMENT IN OPPOSITION OF THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

Vote NO on P

Passage of Measure P would eliminate a significant new revenue source for the maintenance and operations of public facilities.

We strongly urge a NO vote on Measure P.

Measure P would dismantle:

•	Funding for maintenance and operations of Lakeview Commons.

•	A new funding source that was established to fund & maintain parks and streets.

•	Planned regular and necessary maintenance and operations of city owned parking lots.

•	The City’s ability to maintain a balanced budget.

The City formulated the paid parking program after years of study and many public meetings. In the first 8 months of the program, more
than $200,000 in parking revenue has been collected from over 60,000 parking visitors.

The City listened to the Community:

•	We are offering a “Locals Pass”.

•	We removed paid parking from Venice Drive.

•	We reduced the hours of operation to 8am-8pm.

•	We reduced parking meter violations from $55.00 to $35.00.

•	We will improve signage and striping on city owned lots.

If this measure were to pass, the city will lose an estimated 1/2 million dollars!

Vote NO on P

The City has made tremendous strides over the last few years. The City Council is focused and strategic in moving our community
forward. We listen to our community as you relay your expectation and needs. Over 70% of residents surveyed between 2010 and 2013
have recommended the city seek new revenues whenever possible, from tourists. The City’s strategic plan is focused on investments in
recreation and infrastructure such as streets and parks. The City’s budget is balanced. We reduced our work force by 33% and have
eliminated structural deficits. If you believe we are moving in the right direction, join us and VOTE NO on measure P.

Mayor Hal Cole,

On behalf of the South Lake Tahoe City Council

09-602

09602

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

VOTE NO ON MEASURE P

If Measure P passes, the City loses over $300.000 in net annual revenue, which would be used to maintain and improve the areas
where paid parking was implemented, such as Lakeview Commons, Harrison Avenue and Lakeside Beach. These projects improve the
quality of experience for residents and visitors. The City’s strategic plan is focused on investments in recreation and infrastructure
including streets and parks. The Chamber adopted Tahoe Future Vision 2020 last year wherein it “commits to support sensible
regulations to advance physical infrastructure that supports business and community.”

There is little evidence that tourists are dissuaded from visiting because of paid parking. We believe the City listened to concerns from
residents and visitors via amending the program by shortening the hours, improving signage, reducing parking ticket fines, and ensuring
residents retain access to popular facilities at minimal cost with a “Locals Pass.”

Why vote to repeal the program when we can still make it work for our community? It means that people who choose to park close to
facilities will pay specifically for that benefit. If we want first-rate infrastructure and recreation facilities, the City needs to raise additional
revenue. Support the City’s efforts to fund construction and maintenance of high-quality infrastructure and recreation facilities, making
South Lake Tahoe a wonderful place to live and a world-class tourist destination.

Fix it, don’t nix it!

We urge you to Vote NO on Measure P.

Betty Gorman, President, Lake Tahoe South Shore Chamber of Commerce
Jerry Bindel, Secretary, South Lake Tahoe Lodging Association
Peter Fink,

John Friedrich, Small World

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P
VOTE YES on MEASURE P to REMOVE PARKING METERS
The Parking Meter Program has been a total FAILURE, much like the Parking Garage.

The City is calling this program a “significant new funding source”. NOT TRUE!!

In the City’s argument against Measure P’, they report “$200,000 in parking revenue”, but neglect to report the operating expenses in
excess of $248,000. This is misleading and causes the public to believe that this program is currently profitable. That Is a $48,000
LOSS.

The City Council has invested your tax dollars in an expensive experiment that is NOT working. Because the Venice Drive and
Paradise Avenue kiosk locations were losing money, the City Council has voted to temporarily remove these areas from the program
and have put $120,000 worth of equipment into storage, It is hoped that some of that money can be recovered by selling this slightly
used equipment. What is left of this money-losing program needs to be abolished by voting YES on P.

The City Council DID NOT LISTEN to the community.

The overwhelming majority of citizens at open public meetings opposed this parking meter program before it was ever approved.

The city later worked to block the will of the voters.

Make them listen now by VOTING YES on P.

Peggy A. Bourland
John N. Cefalu
John J. Grace
Bruce Grego

09-603

09603

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L

RESOLUTION NO. 010-2014 OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF EL DORADO SETTING FOR ELECTION A
MEASURE PROPOSING A RENEWAL OF THE LIBRARY SPECIAL TAX IN THE SOUTH LAKE TAHOE ZONE OF BENEFIT (ZONE
F) WITHIN COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 10

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has previously established the authority for County Service Area No. 10 to provide library services
and facilities, and did, on August 1, 1995 establish the South Lake Tahoe Zone of Benefit (Zone F) within County Service Area No. 10
for the purpose of delivering such library services and facilities, and

WHEREAS, Government Code section 25213(d) expressly authorizes a county service area to provide library services and facilities, and

WHEREAS, Government Code section 25215.2 expressly authorizes the Board of Supervisors to levy special taxes within a county
service area subject to voter approval, and

WHEREAS, on November 30, 2004, the Board of Supervisors passed and adopted Resolution 361-2004 to levy a special tax for library
services within the South Lake Tahoe Zone of Benefit (Zone F) of County Service Area No. 10, which was approved by the voters on
March 8, 2005, and

WHEREAS, the existing library special tax within County Service Area No. 10, Zone F is due to expire on June 30, 2015, and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors proposes to continue to levy a library special tax within County Service Area No. 10, Zone F to
replace the expiring library special tax to ensure continued funding for library services within Zone F, and

WHEREAS, pursuant to state law, the Board of Supervisors is required to place the proposed tax before the voters of County Service
Area No. 10, Zone F, and

WHEREAS, such special tax shall take effect only if approved by 2/3 of the voters casting ballots at the election on the special tax within
County Service Area No. 10, Zone F.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Supervisors finds, determines, declares and orders as follows:

1.	Upon approval by the voters as set forth in this Resolution, there shall be levied and assessed annually a special tax on each
taxable parcel of property, improved and unimproved, residential and non-residential, within County Service Area No. 10, South
Lake Tahoe Zone of Benefit (Zone F) for library services and facilities, in the amount of $20.00 per parcel commencing with fiscal
year 2015/16 and continuing each fiscal year thereafter for 12 years, through fiscal year 2026/2027.

2.	“Parcel of property” as used in this Resolution shall mean any parcel of land, developed or undeveloped, that is wholly or partially
located within the South Lake Tahoe Zone of Benefit (Zone F) for which the County Assessor of El Dorado County has assigned
an assessor’s parcel number and levies ad valorem property taxes in any year, and includes any contiguous unit of real property
held in separate ownership, which is capable of sale or transfer without further action under the Subdivision Map Act
(Government Code section 66410, et seq.). All real property that are otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad
valorem property taxes in any year shall be exempt from the library parcel tax in such year. The tax imposed by this Resolution
shall be a tax upon each parcel of property regardless of the type of improvement or use of the property. For time shares, the tax
shall be levied on a per time share unit basis. A time share unit is a residential unit for which (a) the right to occupy such unit is
divided into specified periods of time on a periodic basis, and (b) the right to occupy such unit for a particular period of time on a
periodic basis is legally transferable.

3.	The tax imposed by this Resolution shall appear as a separate item on the tax bill of each such taxable parcel and shall be
collected at the same time and manner as county property taxes are collected as set forth in the applicable provisions of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency
as provided for such taxes. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes shall be
applicable to such tax.

4.	The tax rates for parcels as determined above shall be increased annually in proportion to the increase in the Consumer Price
Index (CPI), San Francisco Area, all items, most recently available prior to the date of the increase, provided, however, that this
increase shall not exceed three percent (3%) in any year.

5.	The special tax described herein shall be imposed for a period of twelve (12) years, at the end of which time the special tax shall
cease to be imposed.

6.	Upon approval of the special tax described herein, there shall be created an account into which proceeds of the tax shall be
deposited. Additionally, an annual report shall be prepared in accordance with Government Code section 50075.3.

7.	The following tax measure be submitted to the voters throughout County Service Area No. 10, Zone F:

“To replace the previous voter-approved expiring library special tax, shall El Dorado County levy the amount of
$20.00 annually per parcel (with annual inflation adjustment not to exceed 3%) within County Service Area No. 10
South Lake Tahoe Zone of Benefit, Zone F, for a period of twelve (12) years commencing in fiscal year 2015/16, to
preserve continued funding for library services, hours, and operations and help avoid library closure?”

8.	The Registrar of Voters is hereby authorized and directed to take all actions necessary for submit the ballot measure set forth
above to the voters, to conduct the election, to canvass the results thereof, and to certify the results to the Board of Supervisors.
Said election shall be consolidated with the general election occurring in the County on June 3, 2014.

9.	If for any reason any provision of this Resolution, the ballot measure or the application of either document is found to be invalid,
or if the special parcel tax is found inapplicable to any particular parcel within the zone of benefit by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the balance of this Resolution, the ballot measure, and the application of the special parcel tax to the remaining
parcels within the zone of benefit shall not be affected and, to this end, the provisions of this Resolution and the ballot measure
are severable.

09-607

09607

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
SOUTH LAKE TAHOE ZONE OF BENEFIT (ZONE F) CSA #10
MEASURE L

Measure L, if approved by 2/3 of the qualified voters voting on the measure, would authorize a special tax on parcels of real property
within the South Lake Tahoe Zone of Benefit, Zone F, of County Service Area No. 10 (“Zone”), to be used solely to provide library
services and facilities within the Zone (“Library Special Tax”).

The proposed new Library Special Tax would replace the expiring special parcel tax and would be used for the same purpose of
supporting the county’s South Lake Tahoe library. Currently, property owners within the Zone pay a voter approved annual special
parcel tax for library services in the amount of $18.00 per parcel of improved and unimproved land, $14.40 per apartment unit on a
parcel, and $9.00 per mobile home on a parcel. The existing special parcel tax expires, by its terms, on June 30, 2015.

The proposed new Library Special Tax would be in the amount of $20.00 per year per parcel of improved and unimproved land and
$20.00 per year per time share unit, subject to a maximum annual inflation adjustment of 3%, and would be in effect for a period of
twelve (12) years, commencing July 1,2015 and ending June 30, 2027.

The proposed new Library Special Tax will be listed as a separate item on the county property tax bill for each affected parcel of land
and time share unit, and will be collected in the same way as the general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and
enforcement of county property taxes will be applicable to the special tax.

Measure L also requires that an annual report be made to the County Board of Supervisors indicating the amount of funds collected and
expended and the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by the proceeds.

This measure was placed on the ballot by Resolution No. 010-2014 of the El Dorado County Board of Supervisors.

This measure requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of all qualified voters voting on the measure in order to pass.

A “YES” vote is a vote to authorize the special tax provided in the measure.

A “NO” vote is a vote against the special tax provided in the measure.

Edward L. Knapp
El Dorado County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Support our library. Vote YES on Measure L.

Funding for the South Lake Tahoe library, passed by the voters twenty years ago, is about to expire, at a time when reading, technology,
education, and literacy are more important than ever before.

For only $20 per year we can maintain the funding that has kept our library open 5 days per week, put new hooks on our shelves, and
provide programs that promote the importance of reading for children.

This special tax will continue what the voters previously approved two times.

This measure PROTECTS library funding. It cannot be used on anything else.

All money raised by this special tax will go to the South Lake Tahoe library to pay for books and materials, hours of operation, and library
services.

As costs go up, Measure L includes a mechanism to gradually increase our library funding, but the special tax will never exceed $28.50
per parcel. The measure will expire after 12 years.

With these funds our local library will be able to maintain the hours it is open and to purchase new books, Public computers, as well as
electronic access through computer or mobile device to e-books, downloadable audio books and popular magazines, will continue.
Children’s story times and computer availability for visitors, seasonal workers, and local residents not possessing a computer, and other
valuable programs, will also continue.

The South Lake Tahoe library is a valuable asset for the community that everyone, young and old, can enjoy. It helps property values. If
we truly want our children to value reading, we must make reading and libraries a priority.

Please join us in protecting our library and vote YES on Measure L.

Natalie Yanish, President, South Tahoe Association of Realtors

Roberta Mason, Member, Lake Tahoe Community College Board of Trustees

Norma Santiago, El Dorado County Supervisor, District V

Ken Sands, Member of the South Lake Tahoe Senior Center and president of Tahoe Basin Senior Center Committee, Inc.

Wendy David, Member, Lake Tahoe Unified School District

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

09-608

09608