BALLOT MEASURE SUBMITTAL
FORM

Official Use Only: Date Stamp

BALLOT MEASURE QUESTION	
Jurisdiction Name: Hayward	Election Date: . 0 r\r\A a  June 3, 2014

Note: The information as it appears within the measure question text box will be printed on the ballot.

Insert ballot question text here:

To restore and maintain Hayward city services and facilities, including
firefighting/emergency medical services; improving police protection for
neighborhoods; replacing the aging library with a 21st century facility including
safe space for after-school homework and tutoring; repairing potholes and
streets; updating aging neighborhood fire stations; and other city services; shall
the City of Hayward increase the sales tax by 14 percent, for twenty years only,
providing locally controlled funding that cannot be taken by the State?

Yes No

TYPE OF MEASURE

\j\ Regular

Measure

□

Bond

Measure

PERCENTAGE NEEDED TO PASS_________________

50+1 vo^ %

FULL TEXT OPTION
Full Text to be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet:

YES (note: must submit separate copy of Full Text along with this form)

□ NO - A Full Text was not submitted

^ NO - Do not print, but it's accessible at:

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE		
Print Name: » -■ - ,  Miriam Lens		Date: March 7, 2014
Signature:		
	CONTACT INFORMATION (for public)	
	phono #=(510) 583_4400	
	E-Mail/Website: , .  www.hayward-ca.gov	

The City Council is submitting to the voters the question of whether to approve an ordinance
enacting a temporary sales tax within the City of Hayward to fund City services and facilities,
such as improving police protection, updating fire stations, repairing streets and potholes,
replacing the City’s main library and other general City services and facilities. The tax rate
would be one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the retail sales price — or one-half of one cent for
an item that costs one dollar. The tax would remain in effect for twenty years.

Technically, a “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and use tax” and “transactions and use tax.”
Both are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail, with certain limited
exceptions. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of
Equalization which administers the tax.

Currently, the tax on retail sales in Hayward is nine percent (9%) of the purchase price. This
measure would authorize a 0.50% transactions and use tax, which would increase the total sales
tax rate to 9.50%. The tax would automatically terminate twenty years after it becomes
operative, unless extended by the voters.

The tax proceeds would be deposited into the City’s general fund and be available to support the
full range of municipal services. Because this measure does not legally restrict the use of tax
revenue to any specific purposes, it is classified as a “general tax,” not a “special tax.” The tax
proceeds may be used for any valid municipal governmental purpose and cannot legally be taken
away by the State. The tax proceeds would be subject to the same independent annual audit
requirements as other general fund revenue. The audit report would be a matter of public record.

This measure authorizes the City to issue bonds not to exceed the total amount of the anticipated
sales tax proceeds. The proceeds from the sale of bonds could only be used for improving or
replacing facilities such as the City’s main library.

A “Yes” vote is a vote in favor of the tax. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax. This measure
would be approved if it receives a simple majority of “Yes” votes.

s/MICHAEL S. LAWSON

City Attorney for the City of Hayward

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
HAYWARD IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES)
TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION

WHEREAS, a locally-enacted revenue measure would protect and maintain
Hayward services because the money is legally required to stay in our community and cannot be
taken by the State, providing locally controlled funds for local services; and

WHEREAS, at its March 4, 2014 meeting, the City Council considered calling an
election to seek voter approval of a proposed general transactions and use (sales) tax, as
authorized by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9; and

WHEREAS, at that meeting, the City Council concluded that all of the
information presented indicated that, to obtain the revenue necessary to maintain and preserve
service levels, the Council should call an election to ask the voters of the City to approve a
twenty year local transactions and use (sales) tax, the revenue from which could be used to
support general municipal services; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the City Council determined that it was
appropriate to place a measure regarding a general transactions and use (sales) tax before the
voters at the June 3, 2014 general election; and

WHEREAS, the tax, if approved, would be imposed on the sale of tangible
personal property and the storage, use, or other consumption of such property. The tax rate
would be one-half of one percent (0.50%) (one-half cent for each dollar) of the sales price of the
property. The tax revenue would be collected by the State Board of Equalization and remitted to
the City. The tax would be in effect for twenty years, and would then expire automatically,
unless extended by the voters. The tax shall be approved if the measure receives at least a simple
majority of affirmative votes.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HAYWARD
ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Amendment of Code.

The Hayward Municipal Code is hereby amended to add a new Chapter 8, Article
19 and shall read as follows:

CHAPTER 8

ARTICLE 19
TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX

SEC. 8-19.100. Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the City of Hayward Transactions and Use (Sales) Tax
Ordinance. The City of Hayward hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

SEC. 8-19.200 Operative Date.

“Operative Date” means October 1, 2014.

SEC. 8-19.300. Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes.

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use (sales) tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt
this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use (sales) tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use (sales) tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use (sales) tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use (sales) taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use
(sales) tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

SEC. 8-19.500. Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed
upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 0.50% of the gross receipts
of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.

SEC. 8-19.600. Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

SEC. 8-19.700. Use Tax Rate.

A transactions and use (sales) tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of 0.50% of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

SEC. 8-19.800. Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

SEC. 8-19.900. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

(1)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California.

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City of any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

(A)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by
the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(B)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

SEC. 8-19.1000. Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions and use (sales) tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,

to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(A) With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

(B) With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purpose of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or

lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use (sales) tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property
for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease had the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect

use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

SEC. 8-19.1200. Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

SEC. 8-19.1300. Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or City, or against any officer of the State
or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

SEC. 8-19.1400. Authorization and Limitation on Issuance of Bonds.

The City is hereby authorized to issue limited tax bonds, from time to time, provided that
the maximum bonded indebtedness will not exceed the total amount of this retail transactions
and use (sales) tax.

SEC. 8-19.1500. Annual Audit

The proceeds resulting from this transactions and use (sales) tax shall be deposited into
the City’s General Fund and become subject to the same independent annual audit requirements
as other general fund revenue.

SEC. 8-19.1600. Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on the twentieth
anniversary of the last day of the calendar quarter following the operative date.”

Section 2. Environmental Compliance.

The findings for this ordinance in compliance with the California Environmental Quality
Act (“CEQA”) are the same as those set forth in the City’s Resolution No. 14-028 calling for an
election on this ordinance. The CEQA findings in Resolution No. 14-028 are incorporated
herein by reference.

Section 3.	Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 4.	Effective Date.

The Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use
(sales) taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed law are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

VOTE YES on Measure C to protect what we all want for Hayward: safe neighborhoods, help in
an emergency, decent roads, modern learning facilities, economic prosperity, improved property
values, and a VIBRANT future for our city. This is the goal of Measure C.

The City of Hayward has worked hard in recent years to be fiscally responsible while
maintaining essential city services. But many city facilities have deteriorated after decades of
constant use. The recent Great Recession has made it impossible to fund needed repairs or
replace aging facilities while still maintaining the city services we need.

Despite these challenges, good things are happening in Hayward. Measure C will continue the
progress by authorizing a % cent sales tax to fund important city services and needed facilities,
such as:

•	Providing firefighting and emergency medical response services

•	Improving police protection for safer neighborhoods

•	Restoring funding for maintenance, including pothole and street repairs

•	Upgrading aging fire stations and replacing Hayward’s obsolete fire training facility

•	Replacing the Hayward Main Library with a 21st Century Library and Learning Center,
including space for after-school and early childhood education programs

ALL Measure C funds (100%) will stay locally controlled IN Hayward - FOR Hayward. By
law, the State CANNOT take this funding away.

Basic necessities like groceries and prescription medications WON’T be taxed. Visitors to
Hayward will pay their fair share, so residents won’t shoulder the entire cost.

Measure C lasts 20 years ONLY. It cannot be extended without a new vote.

Measure C is a smart investment. The longer we wait, the more expensive it will be.

Please join firefighters, police officers, seniors, parents, neighborhood, civic and business leaders
and residents from every Hayward neighborhood in taking this positive step to keep our
community moving forward.

Learn more at www.protecthavwardsfuture.com

Please VOTE YES on C.

s/Charles C. Plummer

Sheriff Emeritus & Hayward Resident

s/Judy Harrison

President, Friends of the Hayward Public Library
31-year Hayward School Librarian

s/Robert Sakai

Attorney & 60-year Hayward resident
s/Doris J. Rodriques

55-year Resident & Retired City Council Member
s/Elaine J. Sunday

President Hayward Neighborhood Alert & Long-Time Hayward Resident

Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed law are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Why does the City believe it’s entitled to greater relief from the effects of the recession and
future inflationary costs than its residents and businesses?

Why does the City contend that it has over half-a-billion dollars in unmet capital needs, yet
provides no reference to any document supporting this incredible claim? Why does the City’s
Capital Improvement Program list unfunded capital projects valued at $325M of which more
than half this amount can be attributed to Caltrans interchange projects traditionally funded by
federal, state, and regional sources?

Why is the City proposing a $60M library that is 50-percent more costly than even the most
expensive new Bay Area library built within the past decade? How will the City afford to stock,
staff, and otherwise operate this proposed three story facility that would be more than twice the
size of the existing?

Why does the City believe that it’s managing its finances responsibly when the 20-highest
compensated city employees in 2012 each received a quarter-of-a-million dollars or more in
salary and benefits? Or when the top six received more than $300,000 in compensation—nearly
six times Hayward’s median household income?

Why hasn’t the city’s existing supplemental taxes (the emergency facilities tax and the 5.5-
percent utility tax) accomplished what they were intended to do? Why is the City not concerned
by the burden that this unprecedented combination of taxes will have on Hayward’s residents and
businesses? Why is the City not concerned that this measure in combination with the possible
augmentation of the county transportation sales tax will set Hayward’s sales tax rate at an even
10-percent?

Why does the City believe that its residents and businesses are an endless source of revenue?
Why?

www.HevHavward.com
s/Lawrence M. Johmann

Hayward resident, property owner & businessman

Argument Sgners
For Measure C

Argument in Favor

1.	CharlesC Hummer

Sheriff Emeritus & Hayward Resident

2.	Jtidy Harrison

Resident, Friends of the Hayward Fliblic Library

3.	Robert Sakai

Attorney & 60-year Hayward resident

4.	Doris J. Ftodriques

55-year Resident & Ftetired City Council Member

5.	Elaine J Sunday

Resident Hayward Neighborhood Alert & Long-Time Hayward Resident

Argument Against

1.	Lawrence M. Johmann

Hayward resident, property owner & businessman